

201 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2049 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Agency Girds Itself for Challenges of Medicaid Managed Care

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
For years, New York City's public hospital system has faced one financial crisis after another. And each time, the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, by far the world's largest public-hospital collective, has scratched its way back to solvency.
These days, even its biggest critics have been forced to tip their hats: The corporation has balanced its budget, cut costs and begun an essential transformation -- from little more than a collection of urban hospitals with bustling emergency rooms to a complex health care organization with far more of an emphasis on primary and preventive care. 
 But the somewhat belated rise of managed care in the city -- and particularly the imminent start-up of mandatory managed care for people on Medicaid -- is threatening the corporation with its biggest fiscal challenge yet. And a growing chorus of critics and supporters alike is expressing concern that there is no cohesive plan to face down the problem. Even the corporation's president admits that some public hospitals may eventually have to close.
In essence, the hospital system is like an aging discount store that now finds itself competing with a state-of-the-art Wal-Mart on one side of the street and a Target on the other. And its business quandary is essentially the same, too: No matter how much it cuts costs, how will it find enough customers, and revenue, to thrive?
For the public hospital system, the customers are patients -- fewer and fewer of whom have been filling its beds of late. And a growing number of those patients have no insurance and so cannot pay.
Most dauntingly, though, the city hospitals are in a fierce fight for their bread and butter -- Medicaid patients -- with the private hospitals, which have discovered that Medicaid money is better than nothing as managed care companies cut reimbursement rates. And experts agree that the problem will worsen over the next few years as mandatory managed care gives many poor people the option of private hospital care for the first time.
"Right now, it is not clear where H.H.C. is going," said Dr. Bruce Siegel, the former president of the hospitals corporation who is now chief executive of Tampa General Health Care in Florida. "They have little or no subsidy. Their patient volume is dropping, their uninsured are rising and there is no plan on the horizon on the city, state or Federal level to deal with this. A crisis is either happening now or is imminent."
Much is at stake as the public-hospital system -- whose 11 hospitals and more than a dozen other health centers represent roughly one-third of the city's hospital beds -- confronts capitalism for the first time in its 28-year history. Even though Medicaid patients should benefit from their new status as a hot commodity in health care, the public hospitals have historically existed as a safety net for another group of patients -- those who cannot pay for their care. Indeed, the system has always used part of its Medicaid revenues to pay for the uninsured, whose numbers have been growing across the nation but especially in New York, where they are around 50 percent above the national average.
Now, as the public hospitals contemplate a loss of Medicaid business, some experts say the hospitals are in danger of becoming charity hospitals for the uninsured. As such, with revenues falling and cost-cutting likely to rise, there is concern that those remaining patients may end up underserved.
Of course, no one can predict where all this change will ultimately leave the city's hospitals, or when that moment of truth might arrive. While public hospitals across the country are under similar pressures, the sheer size of New York City's system makes it a case unto itself. And while city officials hope to start phasing in mandatory managed care early next year, it is unclear when the Federal Government will approve the final plans.
Dr. Luis R. Marcos, president of the Health and Hospitals Corporation, insists that, in the short term, the hospitals corporation's recent improvements will allow it to weather the storm. But many health care experts say it is increasingly clear that something significant will have to give.
The corporation will almost certainly have to go to the Federal and state governments to seek more money for the uninsured, and it is uncertain how much, if any, they will give. Without an infusion of cash, deeper layoffs and service cuts are likely.
And ultimately, the corporation may have to face the greatest political hurdle ever, closing some of its hospitals, as Dr. Marcos acknowledges. "If we're going to be honest," Dr. Marcos said, "if Medicaid managed care results in the corporation losing significant numbers of patients coupled with the emphasis on primary care, the day will come when some hospitals in this corporation will no longer be."
Layoffs and other cost-cutting measures have already caused union leaders and some public officials to raise questions about care in some of the hospitals. And in recent months, the Health Care Financing Administration, the Federal agency that runs Medicaid and Medicare, has come out with critical reports on the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
"I think that the public hospital system is starting to feel squeezed," said Charles Brecher, professor of public and health administration at the Wagner School at New York University. "Whether there are some hospitals that are not adapting as well as they should have may be showing up in these reports."
The hospitals agency has tried mightily to get its financial house in order in the years since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani took office in 1993 after a campaign in which he made privatization of public hospitals part of his platform. That plan never saw the light of day, so his next option was to push the corporation, which last year had a budget of $3 billion, to fly on its own and compete with the rest of the hospitals in the city. And the city has virtually eliminated its subsidy for the corporation; it was $293 million in 1993 and shrank to $80 million in 1998.
Cutting Back on Costs
 And Reflecting Trends
In the last few years, the hospitals corporation has cut plenty of fat while investing in important infrastructure, like complex computer systems. The average time that a patient stays in a city hospital has decreased to 5.7 days, from 8.2 days in 1992. That is an important cost reduction, because hospitals are paid by the case, not length of stay.
The hospitals corporation has also worked to catch up with the national trend toward outpatient care, a shift driven by managed care and by medical technology that allows more procedures to be done out of hospitals. The corporation has seen a 9.1 percent increase in visits to its clinics since 1992, and its ambulatory surgery cases have climbed more than 60 percent in that time period.
The net result, helped by a one-time accounting maneuver, is that the hospitals agency ended the 1998 fiscal year $21 million in the black, a far cry from 1992, when it received far more outside funds and lost $172 million.
"I think they have done a lot of really good things," said Martin Arrick, a director of Standard & Poor's specializing in health care. "Their financial results have improved."
The most difficult question is what will happen once mandatory managed care starts kicking in for Medicaid recipients. Not only are many patients likely to go elsewhere, but insurance reimbursement rates under the managed care system will also shrink.
As mandatory managed care plans go into effect, the corporation projects a $100 million loss over four years, even though the Federal Government is planning to provide it with $500 million over five years in transition money. And the share of its patients who are uninsured, which has risen from 9 percent, to 10 percent, of its base in just a year, is expected to continue to climb.
Dr. Marcos acknowledges that losing Medicaid patients could likely cripple the corporation since they represent roughly two-thirds of all its patients.
"If they choose a managed care company that doesn't do business with us," he said, "we lose them. If we lose Medicaid, we lose our revenue stream. If we lose that, we are out of business."
Hopes for Its H.M.O.
 And Marketing Efforts
While the corporation is hoping that it can keep much of its patient base through its own health maintenance organization, Metro Plus, and through aggressive marketing and courting of patients, its officials concede that patients will indeed be lost. But, they insist, all the efficiencies will compensate.
The corporation is also counting on the fact that public hospitals and clinics are all that are available in a few areas of the city and that sheer familiarity will keep some Medicaid patients loyal.
"There is no question there will be less patients," said Rick Langfelder, the corporation's chief financial officer. "But if we focus on the right things, it won't be a nightmare."
But many health care experts and advocates for the poor are worried about the impact of cost-cutting on care for the poor as revenues dwindle.
"Over the next few years, H.H.C. should be able to balance its budget," State Comptroller H. Carl McCall said in a recent report. "But the challenge will be to do so and not reduce services to the people who need them." Other analysts from several city agencies, who would not speak on the record, echoed that fear.
It is nearly impossible to assess the quality of care in hospitals without spending extensive time in them, and while union officials have derided the quality in hospitals where there have been layoffs, they are concerned about jobs as well as patient care. But some health care experts contend that the spate of recent citations by the Federal Health Care Financing Administration points to cracks in the hospital system. And officials at the Federal agency say a series of these findings in such a short time is highly unusual.
Last summer, the Federal agency found enough problems with things ranging from outdated medicines in supply closets to lapses in care at Lincoln and Harlem Hospitals to write up deficiency reports on both. Then, this fall, the agency fined the hospitals corporation $3,050 a day, charging that it had improperly relocated nursing home residents when it abruptly closed the Neponsit Health Care Center, a city-run nursing home in Queens. Corporation officials said they closed Neponsit because the corporation did not have enough cash to fix its physical flaws.
And two weeks ago, Kings County Hospital Center was cited for failing to give some patients timely emergency care. In each case, the state's Health Department also weighed in with criticisms.
Difficult Decisions
 Behind the Criticism
Dr. Marcos asserts that those slaps are little more than politically motivated harassments, stemming from his office's difficult decisions to lay off Harlem Hospital Center employees and change Lincoln's medical affiliate contracts, both in the name of creating a more efficient organization.
In the case of Neponsit, Dr. Marcos said government regulators unfairly criticized the corporation after the fact.
Hospitals corporation officials also say the reports do not give the corporation its due for all its advances in patient care -- including upgrading much of its surgical equipment, reducing waiting times in some of its clinics and improving outreach efforts by offering, for example, free mammograms in poor communities.
With the coming of Medicaid managed care, many of the city's poor will have a chance to vote with their feet.
"I feel very good about how healthy and viable this corporation is," Dr. Marcos said. "We are moving in the right trends; patient care is very, very good."
But what worries many health care experts is whether all the issues facing the hospital system can be coped with at once.
"If you step back," said James Tallon, the president of the United Hospital Fund, a health care policy group, which recently did a study of the city hospitals corporation, "the report says there is an element of improvement at H.H.C. But that is balanced with the long-term strategic question as to whether it can compete in the emerging managed care environment."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Fighting for Medicaid Revenues"
The bulk of the patients served by the Health and Hospitals Corporation are covered by Medicaid. But now, as the public hospitals face growing competition for Medicaid patients . . .their financial stability is being threatened.
 
Outpatient
 
Medical insurance coverage
MEDICAID: 48%
MEDICAID HMO: 13%
OTHER*: 39%
Fiscal 1998 patient visits: 5 million
H.H.C. surplus/deficit: +200 million
 
Emergency
 
Medical insurance coverage
MEDICAID: 41%
MEDICAID HMO: 10%
OTHER*: 49%
Fiscal 1998 patient visits: 900,000
H.H.C. surplus/deficit: 0
 
Inpatient
 
Medical insurance coverage
MEDICAID: 56%
MEDICAID HMO: 9%
OTHER*: 35%
Fiscal 1998 patient visits: 218,000
H.H.C. surplus/deficit: -200 million
 
Home care
 
Medical insurance coverage
MEDICAID: 55%
MEDICAID HMO: 4%
OTHER*: 41%
Fiscal 1998 patient visits: 350,000
H.H.C. surplus/deficit: -400 million
 
*Includes patients covered by Medicare and private insurance.
(Source: Health and Hospitals Corporation)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (51%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH AND HOSPITALS CORP (NYC) TAMPA GENERAL HEALTHCARE (51%); MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND HOSPITALS CORP (NYC) MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; FINANCES; MEDICAID; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) HOSPITALS (94%); MEDICAID (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; MARCOS, LUIS R (DR) LUIS R MARCOS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998



202 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: 10 Institutions Join to Create Biomedical Research Center

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Trying to reverse New York State's shrinking share of grant money for biomedical research, 10 of the state's academic medical institutions are joining to create a large center for the industry.
The complex, the New York Structural Biology Center, will be owned and operated by the 10 medical institutions in the consortium and is expected to open on the campus of the City University of New York sometime next year. The center will house complex and enormous machines that employ high-field magnets used to study molecules, a costly and highly coveted type of biomedical research. 
 The consortium will consist of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, the City University of New York, Columbia University, Cornell University, the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, Rockefeller University, the State University of New York at Stony Brook, the Wadsworth Center and the New York State Department of Health.
Officials said the consortium was unusual for a few reasons. The participating medical institutions are far more accustomed to competing with one another than combining forces, and an agreement of this scale is extremely rare. The complex's size of 34,000 square feet in a place as cramped as New York City is uncommon.
Although the medical institutions will own and operate the center, its construction is being financed by private investors. That infusion of cash from a group of New York City businesses underscores the private sector's desperation to draw and maintain a core of research wizards that have recently opted for other cities. It will take about $20 million to build and operate the new center initially.
Health officials say that a large pool of cash and a collaborative rather than competitive strategy is needed if New York State hopes to fight its way back to being the top recipient of Federal grants, rather the No. 3, as it is now.
"Competition is an artifact of a forgone era," said Kenneth Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group for local hospitals. "Today, the pooling of brain power is absolutely essential."
New York, historically the center of medical research, has in recent years been left behind by the boom in biomedical research. Other states, keenly aware that biomedical research could help their economies, have courted the industry and its scientists with considerable success.
At the same time, New York hospitals and universities were so busy competing with each other that their individual efforts were not amounting to much. The expenses and demands of operating in New York City also turned off many of the country's most prominent researchers, who are crucial to the biomedical industry. As such, the state has steadily lost its percentage share of research grants from the National Institutes of Health.
"We thought about how to make New York irresistible, and in my mind it was to find the area of science that New York has already made a significant investment in, one that is highly dependent on technical resources, and to take advantage of a lot of great biomedical research institutions here," said Dr. Richard A. Rifkind, chairman of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research and one of the founders of the new center.
The money to build the center is being raised by the Partnership Policy Center, a unit of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, a business group that has worked to revive business sectors in trouble. The group says it has already received some private money to create the center.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the creation of a biomedical research center by 10 of New York State's academic medical institutions referred incompletely to the location. It will be on the City College campus of the City University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STRUCTURAL BIOLOGY CENTER CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STRUCTURAL BIOLOGY CENTER COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; RESEARCH; MAGNETISM AND MAGNETS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH MEDICAL RESEARCH (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BIOCHEMICAL RESEARCH (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); CANCER (73%); BIOCHEMISTRY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998



203 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Will Humans Overwhelm the Earth? The Debate Continues

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 4

 BODY:
Two hundred years ago the Rev. Thomas Robert Malthus, an English economist and mathematician, anonymously published an essay predicting that the world's burgeoning human population would overwhelm the Earth's capacity to sustain it.
Malthus's gloomy forecast, called "An Essay on the Principle of Population As it Affects the Future Improvement of Society," was condemned by Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels and many other theorists, and it was still striking sparks last week at a meeting in Philadelphia of the American Anthropological Society. Despite continuing controversy, it was clear that Malthus's conjectures are far from dead. 
 Among the scores of special conferences organized for the 5,000 participating anthropologists, many touched directly or indirectly on the Malthusian dilemma: Although global food supplies increase arithmetically, the population increases geometrically -- a vastly faster rate. The consequence, Malthus believed, was that poverty and the misery it imposes will inevitably increase unless the population increase is curbed.
This contention has prompted endless debate. Malthus's critics, especially the utopians of his time, have argued that man's ingenuity will always keep pace with population growth by finding improved ways to produce food.
Recent assaults on Malthusian pessimism have cited the success of the "Green Revolution" launched in the 1950's and 1960's by Dr. Norman Borlaug and his associates in developing high-yield strains of rice and wheat.
But the scientific descendants of Malthus argue that feeding the world's masses is only part of the problem. Just as dangerous, they contend, is the omnivorous consumption of nonrenewable resources, the irreversible destruction of habitats and species, the fouling of the air and seas and consequent changes in climate, and many other effects of the growing human horde.
One of the symposiums held at last week's meeting was so controversial that a conference with the same title had been banned from the 1994 meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science on the grounds (according to its organizer, Dr. Warren M. Hern, a Colorado physician and epidemiologist) that "You may not ask that question."
The question, posed as the title of the symposium, was this: "Is the Human Species a Cancer on the Planet?"
Dr. Hern, the director of an abortion clinic in Boulder, Colo., noticed nearly a decade ago that aerial and satellite views of urban centers taken over a period of years bore a striking similarity to images of cancerous tissue (particularly melanoma) invading the healthy surrounding tissue.
In his presentation last week, Dr. Hern argued that in many parts of the world the increase in human numbers is rapid and uncontrolled, that it invades and destroys habitats, and that by killing off many species it reduces the differentiation of nature. All of these features are characteristic of cancerous tumors, he said.
This assessment was applauded by another member of the panel, Dr. Lynn Margulis of the University of Massachusetts, Boston, who is known for her coauthorship of another highly controversial theory known as the "Gaia Hypothesis."
The Gaia idea, the brainchild of an English theorist, Dr. James E. Lovelock, and Dr. Margulis, who is a microbiologist, is that the entire Earth deploys feedback mechanisms to maintain an environment hospitable to life. In this it resembles a gigantic living organism, proponents of the idea believe.
Life on Earth has survived many crises, including mass extinctions caused by the impacts of asteroids and comets, Dr. Margulis said, and life will continue despite the threats created by humanity -- but with reduced diversity.
She agreed with the notion that the human race is a kind of self-destructive cancer.
"For millions of years the Earth got along without human beings," she said, "and it will do so again. The only question is the nature of the human demise that has already begun."
Dr. Margulis quoted a line from the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche: "The Earth is a beautiful place, but it has a pox called man."
A different but complementary perspective was offered by Dr. Compton J. Tucker, a physical scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Goddard Space Center. Dr. Tucker is an analyst of images of the Earth made by Landsat and other orbiting spacecraft. In particular, he keeps track of deforestation and other anthropogenic changes in the global habitat.
"In many regions, we've seen astonishingly rapid change since 1975," he said. "Vast tracts of both rain forest and dry tropical forest have disappeared in the Amazon Basin as human communities expand and clear the land for cattle ranching. This has led to a monoculture dominated by cattle breeding, with losses of immense numbers of the species deprived of forest habitat."
Several speakers cited United Nations statistics indicating that population growth rates in underdeveloped countries averaged only 1.77 percent a year between 1990 and 1995. The expectation for that period had been for a growth rate of 1.88 percent. This suggests that the increase in the population growth rate in underdeveloped countries declined somewhat during that five-year period.
But since 1930, when the world population was about 2 billion, the population has nearly tripled, and each doubling has occurred in a much shorter time period than the previous doubling period. The United Nations report projected that the world population could reach 9.4 billion by the year 2050.
Demographers say that the population increase has leveled off in China (where the government limits family size) and that the rate of population increase has declined in Bangladesh and some other populous countries.
But recent United Nations statistics identified 28 countries (20 of them in Africa) where fertility rates increased during the past decade. Among these countries was the United States, which has the third largest population after China and India, and where the fertility rate increased from 1.9 to 2.1 percent, largely because of Hispanic immigration.
All the speakers at the symposium had expected vigorous criticism from the audience of anthropologists, but were surprised to encounter few strongly negative comments.
"Arguments over the accuracy of Malthus's views, future population trends and the Earth's carrying capacity are never-ending and never resolved," one speaker said. "Many people prefer to just forget about the big questions involved, and get on with their lives."
At another symposium held at last week's meeting participants were asked to address the question "Was Malthus Right?" None of the panelists called Malthus's assessment of the grim consequences of overpopulation wrong, although some argued that he had some details wrong.
"Most biologists would say that Darwin's work was mostly correct despite some errors in detail," said Dr. Kenneth Wise, an anthropologist at Pennsylvania State University. "In the same sense it is fair to say that Malthus was mostly right. He took the prospect of technological innovation into account but still foresaw social inequities and growing misery as inevitable.
"Facing up to dangerous ideas is not the same thing as advocating them," Dr. Wise said.
Population pressure is partly a question of perception, said Dr. Bernice A. Kaplan, an anthropologist at Wayne State University.
"I ask my students how they feel about being increasingly crowded by the growing population, and they reply, 'We're not crowded,' " Dr. Kaplan said.
"That attitude results from being young and not having experienced the changes old people have seen during their lives. Whatever environment you're born into is the one that seems normal.
"You don't seem to realize the problems created by population pressure until you get old, and then nobody listens to you. We are a species that doesn't respond to threats until it's too late," she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about a meeting of anthropologists misstated part of the group's name. It is the American Anthropological Association, not Society. The article also misspelled the surname of a participant from Pennsylvania State University. He is Dr. Kenneth Weiss, not Wise.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Thomas Robert Malthus said that population growth would lead to poverty and misery. (Bettman Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: EARTH (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOTICAL SOCIETY

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOTICAL SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EARTH (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FOOD; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION; WEATHER POPULATION GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CANCER (84%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (69%); WATER POLLUTION (68%); SKIN CANCER (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: MALTHUS, THOMAS ROBERT (1766-1834) NORMAN ERNEST BORLAUG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998



204 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 8, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 2; The Natural World 

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Just How Green Can a Middle School Get?

BYLINE: By BILL DONAHUE; Bill Donahue has written for The New York Times Magazine and The New Yorker.

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.

 BODY:
MATH class begins as a stocky boy in a ski parka chucks a stick into the muddy, cool water of Johnson Creek. The stick bobbles over rapids and collides with a waterborne leaf.
On the grassy bank, sixth, seventh and eighth graders from the Environmental Middle School watch raptly, clipboards in hand. "Ten seconds," one yells the instant the stick has traveled 50 feet. The students calculate stream velocity. 
 They measure Johnson Creek's dissolved oxygen content, and their familiarity with this twisting brown current -- this workaday stream that snakes past oil lube shops and low-rent apartments -- grows deeper.
With John Richter, their teacher, the eighth graders at Environmental, a public magnet school, have been visiting Johnson Creek regularly for three years. They have assiduously drawn pictures of the leaves of the cottonwoods on the shoreline, planted willows and taken notes on resident creatures, including squirrels and a bird that one student said "sounds like a cat choking."
Inevitably, lessons have become political.
Johnson Creek is inhabited by a species of salmon, the steelhead, that the National Marine Fisheries Service regards as endangered in many streams in the Northwest. The Service is asking citizens to help shape a steelhead recovery plan, which will likely curtail logging and development beside the stream, and Mr. Richter wants his students to speak out. Last month, he took three of them to a conference about the steelhead. "They weren't there to observe," he stresses. "They were there to participate."
It was not the first time Mr. Richter had veered into real controversies. In 1996, he took 15 students to a protest. They spent 90 minutes picketing a United States Forest Service office; they bore signs that begged "Stop Clear-cutting," and they incited outrage. So many loggers wrote to Environmental that the school began keeping what it calls a "hate file." Portland's daily newspaper, The Oregonian, editorialized against the protest, and one letter to the editor called the protest a "mass tantrum."
The concept of environmental education was being called into question again. Increasingly, critics are saying that environmental education is really propaganda aimed, in the words of a political scientist, Michael Sanera, at "convincing kids that the sky is falling."
Dr. Sanera, who is a senior fellow at the Center for the New West in Denver, wrote "Facts Not Fear," which argued that acid rain, water pollution and deforestation are "trendy" myths promoted by a mass media hungry for sensation. He attacked textbooks like the one that suggested that when global warming occurred, New York City would be underwater.
BUT the sound-bite debate over environmental education is misguided. Environmental education might once have been about simple proselytizing -- about, say, venting outrage at Dow Chemical on Earth Day. But it has become a far broader -- and less pointed -- endeavor.
The movement's biggest grantor, the Pew Charitable Trust, which gives away $200 million annually, recently embraced "using the environment as an integrating context for learning." It hasn't financed Environmental, but it has begun championing schools that, like Environmental, are green at the core and apt to take a multidisciplinary approach to ecological studies.
Nationwide, about 100 public schools practice environmental-based education. Three-year-old Environmental may be the most nontraditional. Each morning at the school starts with Mr. Richter strumming his guitar as the 180 students sing songs like "Blowing in the Wind." Students call teachers by their first names, and the office is, according to Environmental's founder and coordinator Sarah Taylor, "modeled after a kitchen in a big family's home."
Ms. Taylor sits at a classroom-style table, sipping herbal tea as students drop by for math help or gardening instructions. She is 50, a child of the 1960's who discovered as a teen-ager that she learned best in nature. "Often," she said, "I'd stay home from school and sit by the creek and write or daydream and draw. This school was born out of that experience."
Lessons are tied to annual themes. Two years ago, the focus was forests; last year, mountains. Now, Environmental students are studying rivers. They are doing math problems about their home water use and compiling a poetry anthology called "A River of Words." Nearly every class includes some contemplation of moving water, but no class, Ms. Taylor insists, is designed to mint protesters. "John went to that protest," she said, "because the kids wanted to, and we won't go to a protest again. I don't think you change anything with one-time protests. You have to eliminate the cause of environmental problems, which is greed."
Dr. Sanera dismisses such reasoning as "ignorant of the economic system." (He argues, "Richer is cleaner and healthier. Just look at pollution in developing countries.") He's skeptical, too, of a recent morning assembly at which Ms. Taylor helped students compile a "Bill of Rights" for rivers. One sixth grader said that rivers have a right not to be dammed.
"They're probably not being taught to think critically," Dr. Sanera charged. "Did anyone point out that the power at their school is generated by dams' turbines?"
No one did, but standardized tests suggest that Environmental is academically effective. Last spring, when Portland's eighth graders were tested on writing and math, Environmental students, who come from neighborhoods throughout the city, scored above average in all 10 categories tested.
"They're doing well," Mr. Richter speculates, "because they're happy in their learning environment." Science class is about to begin, and today Mr. Richter's students will ponder an imaginary river -- and an imaginary downpour.
"Folks," Mr. Richter announces, gesturing toward an elaborate diorama on the back wall, "there's been a tremendous rain storm over our river here." The students scoot their chairs toward Mr. Richter, 47, a gentle outdoorsy fellow, a sort of Mr. Rogers in fleece. Each student is role-playing a Northwest animal this year, and Mr. Richter wants to know how the "animals" are enduring the storm.
"I'm a salmon," one boy says, "and I wouldn't have a place to lay my eggs. Salmon need clean water for that and, in the storm, the river would be full of silt."
Another child says: "I'm a great horned owl, and I'd benefit because the rains would wash all the little animals, my prey, out of their holes."
Gradually, a lesson emerges: Nature is not a fragile victim; it is instead a sturdy web, an intricate system in which death for one animal can mean lunch for another. Mr. Richter does not spell this out. Rather, he guides the students toward it. The room is aswarm with children stabbing their hands desperately into the air, and he spends 40 minutes directing the verbal traffic. Then the class ends and the students stream out to the gym, for murderball.
"We're trying to get past good guy versus bad guy," the teacher says in the ensuing silence. "The kids usually view issues as environmentalists, but that's the way kids are. They aren't directly using resources like lumber yet. But they will be, and we want them to ask, 'Am I being respectful of the environment? Is there any way to do this that pollutes less?' If those questions are asked, I think it's a great thing."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Dec. 8 in The Natural World, a special section, with an article about environmental education, misidentified a student shown on a field trip to Johnson Creek in Portland, Ore. He was Alex Thomson, not Jared Blackwell. A teacher mentioned the error to the writer about two weeks ago, but word was delayed in reaching the editors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Jared Blackwell and Sophia Sady with John Richter, their teacher. (Lisa Stone for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (50%); DOW (NYSE) (50%); DOW (LSE) (50%); 4850 (TSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH (77%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH (77%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENVIRONMENT; READING AND WRITING SKILLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (88%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (79%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ACID RAIN (78%); SKIING (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); DEFORESTATION (77%); EARTH DAY (77%); OIL & LUBE SHOPS (75%); MAMMALS (73%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (72%); FISHERIES (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: DONOHUE, BILL JOHN RICHTER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998



205 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Does The Tab Seem Higher? Probably, It Is

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
SOME numbers rise to the level of poetry. The 35 that's attached to the dollar sign that's attached to the leek and potato soup at Lespinasse is one of them.
In the same way that the Chrysler Building is more than a building, the $35 soup, teeming with white truffles and langoustines, is more than a soup. It is a symbol, a beacon, a shiny new prototype in the grand factory of Manhattan restaurant dining. With a stroke of the pen, Christian Delouvrier, the new chef at Lespinasse, has raised haute to new heights. 
 "Thirty-five dollars?" asked Alan Stillman, the president of the New York Restaurant Group, speaking, with an audible gasp, from Las Vegas, where he was overseeing the opening of a new Smith & Wollensky. "You sure that's for one person? Maybe it's for six."
It's for one.
In crude economic terms, the soup is a lagging indicator, proof positive that the long shadow cast by the stock market crash of 1987, a calamity that took down the $35 plate of pasta right along with it, is well and truly over. No one has set off fireworks. The price of a roast-chicken entree has barely budged in the last decade. But clever restaurant owners have engineered their menus to give their customers every opportunity to rack up big bills, from the mineral water and aperitif that start the meal to the desserts that finish it off. And diners do not seem to be in the mood to say no.
Many New Yorkers say they've seen the evidence on their restaurant checks for the last three years. "I'm stunned by the $9 bottled water, which is just sort of slipped in there at the beginning of the meal," said Andrea Schwan, a public relations consultant who represents architects and designers. "It's like, 'Will it be still or sparkling?' I feel like saying, 'Well, I'd really like Chateau Giuliani,' but you feel it's part of the experience, so you just go with it."
For some, it's the simple salad that somehow crept up, from $7 to $10, or the side order of garlic mashed potatoes, for $7.50. For others, it's the 12-ounce cup of hot and sour shrimp from Daily Soup that runs $7.95 (served with a wedge of bread, a piece of fruit and cookie), or the lunch-time entree that cracks the $30 barrier, like the sauteed veal chops at Limoncello. The examples may differ, but the song is the same: dining in the city has become very expensive.
Is it true? New Yorkers react to food prices the same way they react to crime. No matter what the statistics say, city residents can be counted on to tell pollsters that crime is on the rise. The diner who has just been mugged by a bottle of sparkling water priced like a designer fragrance ($5 for a half liter at the "21" Club and $12 a liter at Harry Cipriani) is likewise inclined to believe that restaurant prices have gone through the roof.
The closest thing the city has to a database on restaurant prices is the annual Zagat Survey, which, although comprehensive, must be read with a certain degree of caution, since the information comes from an army of unmonitored volunteers. According to the 1999 survey, which includes data through the end of June 1998, the price of a dinner, defined as an appetizer, an entree and a drink, has risen from $29.38 in mid-1994 to $31.68, an increase of almost 8 percent. For the 20 most expensive restaurants in the city, the price of a dinner rose from $63.45 to $68.56, also an 8 percent increase. In the last year, prices rose 3.2 percent over all, but only 0.4 percent for the 20 most expensive restaurants.
So, why do many diners feel as though they are spending a lot, lot more when they go out to eat? Probably because they are, even though their spending patterns are not likely to be reflected in the Zagat Survey.
"A lot of my clients are telling me that their checks are up dramatically, but I can't remember the last time any of them have raised prices," said Gary Levy, a partner in Arthur D. Levy, an accounting firm whose clients include Bouley Bakery, Jean Georges, Aquavit and Mesa Grill. "The smarter operators realize that if you train your staff to sell properly, you get a higher check average."
The operators are making sure that their staff members have something to sell. While holding the line on the basic roast chicken, they have added enticing options at the higher price ranges, loaded on higher-priced specials, expanded their lists of wine by the glass, pushed the bottled water hard and in general (very much like car dealers) festooned their menus with so many tempting options that the Zagat figure seems more like a theoretical construct than an achievable goal.
Pastry, a high-markup category, plays a much greater role than it did even a few years ago, with pastry chefs getting their own menus and star billing not only at restaurants like Le Cirque 2000 or Gramercy Tavern but also at more modest establishments like 27 Standard or Club Raleigh at the Oaks. Wine by the glass, another profit center, has taken off as well, thanks in part to fancy new vacuum dioxide machines that make it possible to open an expensive bottle and preserve it for as long as a week.
The once-standard $5 glass of pedestrian California chardonnay (these days more like $8) now inhabits a thickly populated list that teems with moneymaking opportunities, especially among the lesser-known brands that can take a big markup, since customers are unlikely to know the retail price. At Veruka in SoHo, most customers will know that $9 for a glass of 1995 Rosemount Estate is not much of a value, since a bottle sells at retail for $10, but will they know how to size up the $18 price tag on a glass of 1993 Ferrari-Carano cabernet? (It retails for about $23.)
At every turn diners have every opportunity to spend big. "We've gone the option route," said Steve Scher, an owner of Union Pacific. "We have a $59 prix fixe menu, which we regard as good value, but the menu also presents you with options to build a meal that results in a more expensive check." A little foie gras here, a flight of amuse-bouche there, an excursion into the $110 tasting menu -- it can add up.
Union Pacific is not alone. Fixed-price fever has gripped the city's restaurants. Diners like prix fixe because they know what the check will be. Restaurants like it because it commits customers to a meal that may very well be more expensive than the one they would order a la carte, especially since it commits them to eating desserts. "Within the confines of a prix fixe menu, you can hide all sorts of extravagant items," said Drew Nieporent, whose Myriad Group owns Nobu, the TriBeCa Grill and other high-end restaurants. "A $75 menu is probably a $25 appetizer, a $35 entree and a $15 dessert."
Restaurant owners have been hesitant to do much more than nickel-and-dime the menu on the basic appetizers and entrees. When Le Cirque 2000 opened in 1997, its owner, Sirio Macchioni, declared a two-year freeze on prices. Fear not, the rack of lamb holds steady at $38. Rather than raising prices at Arizona 206, the Santo family shut the place down and installed Bolivar, a moderately priced South American restaurant.
"We did not feel a renovation was enough of a rationale for higher prices," said Andy D'Amico, a partner in the Santo Family Group, which owns the restaurant. The group is currently shopping for the kind of grand premises that will enable it to position Arizona 206 as a haute-Southwestern restaurant with prices to match.
This is the paradox. New York, flush with Wall Street money, has a lot of loose change jangling in its pockets. But restaurant owners who remember the last recession are reluctant to raise menu prices across the board, especially with increased competition from a rush of new high-priced restaurants. It takes a grand opening, or the arrival of an important chef, like Mr. Delouvrier, making a major statement, to crank prices up to a heroic level -- like the $22 prawn cocktail at the newly opened Rage, or the $26 pumpkin risotto at La Fourchette, another newcomer.
"When we see the prices at Lespinasse, we get an overall impression that there's fluidity in the market, but there is a certain threshold that, if you cross it, you have to justify it," said John Harding, the vice president of marketing at Restaurant Associates, the group that owns Cafe Centro and Tropica. The money is out there, in other words, but restaurants have to employ guile and stealth to get it.
Which still leaves one question about the $35 soup. "As an Italian," Mr. Macchioni said, "I have to wonder, what are white truffles doing in a soup to begin with?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nigel Holmes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) RESTAURANTS (91%); BOTTLED WATER (87%); CITY LIFE (83%); FOOD PRICES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (62%); CITIES (62%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (52%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



206 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Report Sees Media as Source of New Jobs

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
The media and communications industries -- which include everything from advertising to publishing to computer programming -- will be a major source of new jobs in New York City over the next few years, according to a report released yesterday by the Citizens' Budget Commission, a nonpartisan, business-financed research group.
If current trends continue, the report says, these industries will add almost 30,000 new jobs by 2001. "There is a prospect for some real growth here, and it seems to be happening without any specific government policies," said Charles Brecher, the commission's research director and an author of the report. 
 The findings are significant because the number of jobs on Wall Street, which "was the driving force behind the city's economic growth in the 1980's," the report says, has been stagnant and is likely to shrink.
"Although New York is fortunate to have a prospering professional business services sector, it cannot be relied upon to provide large numbers of new jobs," the report says.
Media-related industries now account for 8 percent of all private jobs in the city, compared with almost 14 percent for financial firms and their related legal and accounting firms. Both industries create jobs that pay well; the average wage in the media and communications businesses in New York was $66,395 last year, almost $20,000 more than the average wage for all people in the city who do not work in the government.
Some traditional media and communications businesses, including public relations and magazine publishing, will continue to grow quickly, the report says, suggesting that New York's position as a global capital gives it an advantage in the increasingly international media market.
But the greatest growth may be in jobs for which New York has not traditionally been a center, like computer programming and design.
Much of the attention of city officials and researchers has been on the growth of Internet-related businesses often called new media, which a city-sponsored survey found had created 56,000 jobs, more than half of them in the 18 months before the survey was published in October 1997.
But the commission found that much of that "new media" work is happening at "old media" companies where, for example, a computer programmer would create and maintain Internet Web sites for a book publisher. "What's really going on is technological change within an old industry," Mr. Brecher said. "There's lot of substitution. The net growth in jobs is not as great as you would think."
Though New York does not have the reputation as a center of computer and engineering education, the city's colleges and universities produce more people with graduate and undergraduate degrees in these areas than Boston or San Francisco, the report says.
It recommends that politicians, business executives and educators form a consortium that would result in "better training, greater job opportunities for graduates, and additional growth generated by the availability of home-grown talent."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIZEN'S BUDGET COMMISSION

ORGANIZATION: CITIZEN'S BUDGET COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE CHARLES BRECHER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



207 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: College Schedules for Night Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE

 BODY:
The cold night air flowed through the open doorways and circulated around the cavernous building, chilling Stephanie Anderson, 20, and her co-workers as they recently stood beside the long conveyor belt. As packages of various size and shape flowed down the belt, Ms. Anderson glanced at the shipping labels. When she saw a ZIP code in North or South Carolina, she snagged the package and placed it into a large plastic trolley car behind her.
Ms. Anderson is one of a few thousand people doing the same repetitive work on the midnight to 3 A.M. shift at United Parcel Service's sorting center at the Louisville airport. But where some might see boredom and wretched hours, she sees opportunity. By working this particular shift for this particular company, she is getting what she wants most: a free college education. 
 "It sure doesn't seem worth it when I first walk in here," she said. "It's so cold, and the late hours and you've just left a warm house to get here. But it sure seems worth it when I'm registering for classes and I don't have to pay anything."
Ms. Anderson is one of about 1,000 night-shift workers at United Parcel's primary sorting center who began an innovative program this fall that not only provides tuition at three local colleges, but a tailor-made program for workers. In what experts say is the first such cooperative arrangement of its kind, the company, the three colleges and the state have scheduled classes to fit the lives of employees who work in the middle of the night. The main goal of the program -- other than the education of students -- is to help the company retain workers.
"This isn't simply a matter of hiring people and putting them through college," said John Kinney, human resources manager for United Parcel's Louisville sorting center. "It's a whole new way of doing college."
Classes for the program, known formally as Metropolitan College but more commonly as U.P.S.U., are set up for the late afternoon and early evening hours at the University of Louisville, Jefferson County Community College and Jefferson Technical College. Courses ended for the year by Thanksgiving so that students would be free for extra work over the holidays, the peak shipping season.
Workers enrolled in the program get free bus passes for public transit and special bus routes have been set up -- paid for by United Parcel -- that run each night from the three college campuses to the company's sorting center.
The program demonstrates the lengths to which companies must go to retain even semi-skilled workers in economic good times and how much help state and local governments will provide major employers to keep them from relocating.
The idea came about when U.P.S., the state's biggest employer, though its headquarters are in Atlanta, passed word around Louisville in November 1997 that it was thinking about moving its main package sorting center out of the state.
The company always had difficulty finding enough workers to staff its midnight to 3 A.M. shift, hours mandated by flight schedules United Parcel uses for its overnight delivery service. Indeed, in a typical year, turnover among the 5,500 package sorters is 100 percent. (There is also a three-hour daytime shift.)
The wages are well above the minimum -- $8.50 an hour -- and the company provides full medical benefits. But since the basic work of the center is to unload overnight packages from incoming planes, sort the items on the basis of their destination and reload them onto outgoing aircraft, the work can only be part time. And it takes place in the middle of the night, a fact that students -- a group that historically makes up a hefty percentage of United Parcel's work force -- soon finds interfering with social and school life.
"The student population, the folks who are looking for part time work, tend not to want to work from 12 to 3 in the morning moving packages," Mr. Kinney said. "For the same amount of money they can work at McDonald's or at a kiosk in a mall selling jewelry."
And United Parcel officials foresaw even more trouble finding workers in the years ahead, as their plans call for expanding the primary package sorting center, whether in Louisville or elsewhere. The idea is to raise the center's handling capacity by the year 2005 to 300,000 packages an hour from the current 175,000. The center would need an additional 6,000 workers for the late-night shift.
State officials, who had already offered United Parcel a number of other incentives to keep the center in Louisville, like tax breaks, came up with the idea of helping the company fill its employment needs through the college program. Under the plan, United Parcel pays half of a worker's tuition at one of the colleges and the state pays the other half.
"We've a pretty good history of doing things for businesses like improving the transportation system or providing tax incentives," said Gov. Paul E. Patton. "In this case, none of that mattered if U.P.S. couldn't get the employees it needed."
Though it took some persuasion on the part of the Governor to get the colleges to go along with the program, the heads of the three institutions say it has helped them stabilize their enrollments, which, like many colleges, have been dropping.
"It brought in 450 students this semester," said Dr. Richard Green, president of Jefferson Community College, where enrollment dropped to 10,000 this year from 12,000 in 1992.
United Parcel officials say they hope the program will attract about 2,200 of the 6,000 workers they will need in the expanded sorting center. Some of the sorters, like Ms. Anderson, were lured to United Parcel from other jobs.
"I've had problems in the past with working at other jobs where they'll say, 'Oh, we'll work with you through school,' " she said. "But when you've got to stay late for class, it's, 'No, I'm sorry, you've got to come in,' but with this program, they're paying for my school. If they're going to do that, they're going to want me there."
Others, like Patricia Carlton, 40, were not working at all, but hope to take advantage of the opportunity to return to school. Mrs. Carlton, who is married to a retired military officer and has two children at home, learned about the program at her local unemployment office.
"I had put my education aside because of my children, my family, my husband and moving around all the time," she said, sitting in the cafeteria at Jefferson Community College. "I thought this was a good opportunity. It's late. But it's never really too late."
She commutes from her home in Fort Knox, about a 45-minute drive. Her new schedule means that her children and husband have to fend for themselves more when it comes to things like meals.
"They're adjusting because it's my turn," Mrs. Carlton said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A plan by United Parcel Service and Kentucky kept U.P.S.'s main package sorting center in Louisville while providing workers with tuition-free college. Stephanie Anderson, who is in the program, worked recently. (Keith Williams for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL'S (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE UNITED PARCEL'S (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE (KY); UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (91%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); THANKSGIVING (60%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A STEPHANIE ANDERSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



208 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: 4 Foreigners Are Found Beheaded In Chechnya

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 8

 BODY:
The severed heads of four kidnapping victims identified as three Britons and a New Zealander -- were found today on the side of a road in Chechnya, the breakaway region on Russia's southern border that emerged undefeated from a brutal war two years ago only to be engulfed by a wave of kidnappings and crime.
The gruesome killings heightened alarm and outrage about the volatile situation in the region, which spun out of Moscow's control long ago. Until now, local kidnappers have usually kept their hostages alive in hopes of receiving ransom money, which has become a major source of income in an economy devastated by Russia's 21-month war against Chechen secessionists. 
 Although the bodies have not yet been found, Chechen officials said today that they had been able to identify the victims as four employees of a British telecommunications company. They were kidnapped in the Chechen capital, Grozny, by two dozen armed men on Oct. 3, after a shootout with their bodyguards.
The British Government, in a statement tonight condemning the "repugnant murders," said it was awaiting final confirmation of the victims' identity.
"It is a horrifying crime, committed against the international community," said Manolis A. Chikhkiyev, an aide to Ruslan Aushev, the President of Ingushetia, a region that borders Chechnya. "Ordinary criminals wouldn't kill their hostages, which means that this situation is much deeper and more complex."
An estimated 100 kidnapping victims are still being held in Chechnya and neighboring regions in the northern Caucasus. In neighboring Dagestan, kidnappers seized Herbert Gregg, an American teacher, on Nov. 12 as he was leaving a local orphanage. His whereabouts are unknown.
In recent months, the Chechen Government has mounted a new campaign to crack down on the kidnapping gangs, an effort that was set back in October by a car bomb that killed the leader of its special anti-terrorist squad.
The Chechen President, Aslan Maskhadov, has accused his political opposition and "foreign agents" of using kidnapping in its campaign to unseat him. But the crime wave is also attributed to competing local chieftans, Muslim extremists and other groups that have been feeding off the lawlessness and anarchy that has swept the region.
Last October, a Russian official, Akmal Saidov, was found strangled several days after he had been abducted. The motive was judged to be political after a note signed by the "wolves of Islam" was reportedly found on his body, vowing death to those who work for the Russian secret service.
Fear of kidnapping has left Chechnya isolated from the rest of the world, as journalists, aid workers and foreign investors keep a wary distance from a region now so impoverished that according to one local resident, some people are reduced to a diet of animal feed.
Yelena Masyuk, one of three Russian television journalists kidnapped and then released last year after payment of $2 million in ransom, said at a conference last May that the kidnappings had cost Chechnya the sympathy it had won when Russian troops were bombing its capital and killing its civilians.
"Chechens made $16 million on journalists last year, but they lost much more," she said. "They lost the journalists' confidence that they had had during the war." The result, she said, was "an information blockade" against the region and its one million inhabitants.
In the meantime, the Russian Government, while refusing to recognize Chechen independence, has virtually no authority in the region, and has dispersed little of the money it pledged for postwar reconstruction.
There have been successes in the war against kidnappers -- such as the release last month of President Boris N. Yeltsin's personal envoy to the region, Valentin Vlasov, after six months of captivity.
In the last two months, 55 Russian servicemen who had been held captive have been returned to Moscow. And in September, a pair of British aid workers were flown back to England, where they told harrowing tales of abuse by their captors.
Most released hostages have reported that their captors were careful to keep them alive, if barely, so as to be able to collect their reward. One hostage, released this year after several months of captivity and speaking on condition of anonymity, described being held in cold, wet basements, wearing the same set of clothes until they rotted on his body.
Masked guards would deliver meager food rations at irregular intervals, and periodically move their prisoners to different locations, always at night. In his case, the motive for the kidnapping was clear. "Their goal was only money," he said, "and they don't hide this."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; NEW ZEALAND; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (94%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); POLITICS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); LIVESTOCK FEED (60%); RELIGION (60%); ANIMAL FOODS (60%); MURDER (58%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



209 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: START II DEBATE POSTPONED -- The Parliament again postponed discussion of Start II, the strategic-arms reduction treaty that the United States and Russia signed in 1993. The Duma Council of the Parliament delayed debate because only the liberal Yabloko Party had submitted proposals, the Interfax news agency reported. Yabloko leaders accused Communist legislators of stalling on the treaty, which the United States Senate ratified in 1996. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: PINOCHET LAWYERS SEE BIAS -- Lawyers for Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, questioned the impartiality of a decision on Nov. 25 by the Law Lords, England's highest court, denying the general immunity from arrest on charges of human rights violations. The lawyers complained that a judge, Lord Hoffmann, left, was a director of a fund-raising charity associated with Amnesty International, which joined the case against the general. A spokeswoman for Amnesty International said Lord Hoffmann was an unpaid director of the charity, but was not directly involved with Amnesty International. Warren Hoge (NYT) 

NORTHERN IRELAND: I.R.A. MEETS ON DISARMING -- The ruling council of the Irish Republican Army met secretly over the weekend in Cavan, an Irish border county, to discuss the impasse over disarmament. The I.R.A. refusal to turn in weapons has become the central point of division between Roman Catholics and Protestants who are trying to put into place the peace settlement from last April. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
GERMANY: JOBLESS TOTAL CLIMBS -- The number of people out of work rose last month, adding to the problems of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who has pledged to beat unemployment. The labor office said 4,000 additional Germans were jobless, putting the total at 4.11 million, or more than 10 percent of the work force. The increase reversed a 10-month trend of gradually falling unemployment. Roger Cohen (NYT)
 
ESTONIA: CITIZENSHIP EASED -- The Parliament approved amendments to the citizenship law, making it easier for the Russian-speaking minority to become citizens and removing an obstacle to membership in the European Union. The law grants citizenship to 6,500 children born to stateless Russian-speaking parents after Estonia regained independence in 1991. (Reuters)
 
UKRAINE: EX-PREMIER REQUESTS BAIL -- Former Prime Minister Pavlo Lazarenko denied Swiss charges of money laundering and asked a court in Geneva to release him on $3 million bail. His lawyer said Mr. Lazarenko, who was held last week in Geneva, would prove that his business dealings in Switzerland were legitimate and did not involve embezzled Ukrainian money. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
COMOROS: LOOTING AND BURNING BY MILITIAS -- Looters ransacked the main town, Mutsamudi, and burned houses on the breakaway island of Anjouan as African nations discussed sending an outside force to end battles between rival militias. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: OLD PARTY, NEW NAME -- Seeking to overcome its image as the party that set up apartheid, the National Party is changing its name to the New National Party. Its leader, Marthinus van Schalkwyk, said the party had applied to the Independent Electoral Commission to take part in elections next year under the new name. (AP)
 
ASIA-PACIFIC
 
AUSTRALIA: WORLD'S NUCLEAR WASTE REJECTED -- An adviser to President Clinton, Robert Galucci, was quoted by BBC News as saying that Australia's geography and political stability make it ideal for storing the world's nuclear waste. But a spokeswoman for the Industry and Resources Minister said Australia would not accept nuclear waste from other countries. 
 
CHINA: 49,000 MOVED FOR THREE GORGES DAM -- China has resettled more than 49,000 people along the Yangtze River this year to make way for the giant Three Gorges dam project, The China Daily newspaper said. The dam, which is scheduled to be completed by 2009, will require the removal of 1.13 million people. The $4.8 billion complex will include a 252-square-mile reservoir. (Reuters)
 
CHINA: 2 MORE DISSIDENTS DETAINED -- The police raided the homes of two democracy advocates, detaining them and seizing literature for a planned opposition party, the Information Center of Human Rights and Democratic Movement in Hong Kong reported. The detentions of the two, Zhang Baoqin and Liu Xianbin, brought to at least 10 the number of party members taken into custody in a nine-day-old crackdown. (AP)
 
INDIA: NO PROGRESS REPORTED IN NUCLEAR TALKS -- Defense Minister George Fernandes said seven rounds of talks between India and the United States on nuclear nonproliferation and military issues that have been held since India conducted nuclear tests in May had "not taken us one step nearer to any kind of understanding." Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: GLOBAL WARRANT FOR EX-DICTATOR-- A Swiss judge has issued an international arrest warrant for a former President, Gen. Jorge Rafael Videla, in connection with the disappearance of a Swiss-Chilean student in Buenos Aires in 1977. General Videla, who seized power in a coup in 1976, was held here in June on suspicion of having ordered the kidnappings of children born to parents killed under his dictatorship. (AP)
 
UNITED NATIONS: RUSSIAN MOVE TO HELP SERBIA -- Russia blocked the Security Council from criticizing President Slobodan Milocevic for his refusal to turn over to an international criminal tribunal three Serbs accused of a massacre in 1991 in Vukovar, Croatia. The Council had heard a plea for help from the president of the tribunal, Gabrielle Kirk McDonald, who said the Serbs had demanded the files on the case, saying they would handle it themselves. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ESTONIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); COMOROS (92%); AFRICA (91%); UKRAINE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (91%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (91%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ESTONIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); COMOROS (92%); AFRICA (91%); UKRAINE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); TRENDS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); BAIL (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); EMBEZZLEMENT (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (73%); CHARITIES (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



210 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Buying I.B.M. Network;
7,000 Workers to Be Shifted in Complex $5 Billion Deal

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
The AT&T Corporation said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire the global data network of the International Business Machines Corporation for $5 billion in cash.
The two companies also said they had agreed to provide each other $9 billion in outsourcing business. 
 More than 7,000 people, many of them in the Northeast, would change employers under the agreement, with 5,000 people transferring from I.B.M. to AT&T and at least 2,000 going from AT&T to I.B.M. Most of those workers would, however, stay in substantially the same jobs and would probably not have to move.
For AT&T, yesterday's agreement seemed to be the fourth corner piece of the puzzle that C. Michael Armstrong has been trying to put together to make sense of the company's future since he took over as chairman last fall.
Shortly after he arrived at AT&T, the No. 1 long-distance company, Mr. Armstrong said the company needed to strengthen its strategies for breaking into the local communications market, for expanding its international presence and for beefing up its advanced data services, especially those based on Internet technologies.
Already this year, AT&T has agreed to acquire Teleport Communications Group Inc., a local phone company for businesses, and Tele-Communications Inc., which as the No. 2 cable television company has links into millions of homes. The company also formed a $10 billion joint venture for the international market with British Telecommunications, Britain's biggest phone company. With the I.B.M. deal, AT&T is set to make a serious splash in data services.
I.B.M.'s Internet service, which is a major part of its data network, has more than a million individual users in 59 countries. More important, it has local ports into its network all over the world. That is a big plus in attracting the large corporate customers that are the grand prize for communications companies.
For I.B.M, the No. 1 computer company, yesterday's agreement ended an auction process that began publicly in September, when the company said it had hired Merrill Lynch & Company to vet bids for its network. As the pace of technological change continued to accelerate in both the communications and computer industries, I.B.M. decided that it no longer made sense to run a communications system of its own.
"With this agreement, the network will receive the management focus and resources necessary to maintain its standing as a world-class provider of connectivity to I.B.M. and millions of customers," Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the chairman of I.B.M., said in a statement.
The 5,000 I.B.M. employees who will switch to AT&T are equally distributed among Somers, N.Y.; Schaumburg, Ill., and Tampa, Fla., an I.B.M. spokesman said.
According to AT&T, the I.B.M. network will generate about $1.2 billion in revenue from I.B.M.'s existing customers in the first year after the deal is completed. The companies expect to finish the deal around the middle of next year. Because the I.B.M. system also handles a large amount of I.B.M.'s internal communications, I.B.M. also awarded AT&T an outsourcing contract, worth $5 billion over five years, to handle those communications.
Altogether, AT&T, which was advised in the transaction by Salomon Smith Barney, said it expected a revenue increase of $2.5 billion in the 12 months after taking ownership of the network. The company said the accounting for the deal would not significantly dilute its earnings.
I.B.M. said the sale would not have a significant impact on its operating results, but at least one analyst said he expected that the deal could result in a huge tax bill for I.B.M. Steven Milunovich, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, estimated that I.B.M. would report a capital gain of $4 billion on the network sale, for a tax bill totaling more than $1 billion.
The $5 billion price was near the high end of the range that analysts had expected. But the strategic elements of the deal seemed to be a hit in the market yesterday, and shares of both companies rose.
"This is a sweetheart deal for I.B.M.," said Stephen C. Dube, an analyst who follows I.B.M. for Wasserstein Perella. The price, he said, is more than four times the unit's $1.2 billion annual revenue, a greater multiple than I.B.M. over all fetches in the market. "AT&T had to do the deal and paid up for it," he said.
But to win I.B.M.'s auction, AT&T had to come to the table with more than money for the network. It also agreed to outsource to I.B.M. much of its own software and computer center operations, to the tune of $4 billion over 10 years.
Under that part of the agreement, more than 2,000 AT&T management employees will work for I.B.M. Most are in Lake Mary, Fla., and Middletown and Piscataway, N.J., an AT&T spokesman said. Another 1,000 unionized AT&T employees will essentially work for I.B.M. but continue to be paid by AT&T.
"I think we had to do all these things," Mr. Armstrong said of the terms that AT&T accepted. He added: "I believe we had to give them top dollar; we did that. We had to put some outsourcing contracts on the table that were durable and meaningful, and we did. And we had to do some other things in terms of working together in approaching small businesses."
Berge A. Ayvazian, an executive vice president for the Yankee Group, a technology consulting firm in Boston, said, "What this says is that AT&T recognizes that it is not best of breed on application development and data center operations and I.B.M. is not best of breed in network services."
The wild card in the deal appears to be the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation of Japan, the world's largest telephone company. The telecommunications industry has been waiting for years to see what N.T.T. might do to expand overseas in a big way. N.T.T. is one of the biggest subcontractors in putting together the I.B.M. network and so will have increased ties with AT&T after the deal is completed.
Mr. Armstrong would not tip his hand but did say, "There is no question that the relationship of the network to N.T.T. will strengthen the relationship between AT&T and N.T.T."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A complicated exchange of money and corporate operations was explained yesterday in New York by Louis V. Gerstner Jr., left, chairman of I.B.M., and C. Michael Armstrong, chairman of AT&T. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. C25)
 
Chart/Photos: "Under One Roof"
To have the ability to provide everything that both businesses and consumers are going to want, AT&T has been diversifying into a range of services with the means of connection diversifying as well.
 
CONNECTIONS
Twisted pair phone line
Coaxial cable
Fiber optic cables
Wireless
Satellites
 
SERVICES
 
Land Lines
A pending deal to acquire Tele-Communications Inc., a cable television provider, for $48 billion in stock, announced on June 24, will allow AT&T to provide services to consumers at home after years of selling mostly long-distance service.
The company closed an $11 billion deal with Teleport Communications on July 23 obtaining local access to business customers.
 
Domestic internet
As part of the TCI deal AT&T gets a large stake in the @Home network, which provides high-speed Internet services over television cables.
 The company has announced deals this year to provide Internet access through its Worldnet service to portal companies like Lycos, Excite, Infoseek and Yahoo.
 
Wireless
Acquired Vanguard Cellular Systems for $1.5 billion cash, announced on Oct. 5 and introduced a successful flat rate for wireless service that treats long-distance equal to local service.
 
International
The company announced yesterday that it will buy I.B.M.'s global network business for $5 billion in cash.
The company announced a $10 billion joint venture with British Telecom on July 26 to improve their global communication networks to satisfy needs of large businesses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); IBMC (BRU) (94%); IBM (NYSE) (94%); IBM (LSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP AT&T INC (96%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (94%); TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH; ARMSTRONG, C MICHAEL C MICHAEL ARMSTRONG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



211 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Fall First Time in 3 Sessions With Dow Off 42.49

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell for the first time in three sessions, led by Procter & Gamble and other companies that depend on exports after Union Carbide warned that slow Asian sales would crimp fourth-quarter earnings.
"Companies with exposure to international markets are seeing an erosion of earnings" expectations, said Richard Caro, a portfolio manager at Summit Bank in New Jersey, which oversees $8 billion in assets. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 42.49 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 9,027.98, after losing as many as 124 points during the day. P.& G. accounted for one-third of the decline. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 6.32 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,181.38. The Nasdaq composite index declined 5.89 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 2,034.75. About three stocks fell on the New York Stock Exchange for every two that rose.
P.& G., which makes almost half of its sales outside the United States, fell 3 5/8, to 86 3/4. Union Carbide said profit from operations for the quarter would fall more than expected because of weak Asian demand for chemicals, delays in restarting a plant in Louisiana and a transition to a new computer system. Its shares fell 2, to 42. Rohm & Haas, a maker of specialty chemicals, fell 1 5/8, to 32 5/16, after it said fourth-quarter earnings might be at the low end of analysts' estimates because of slowing Asian economies.
"The companies that are having trouble want to warn Wall Street that things aren't going so well," said Barry Hyman, a senior market analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum Inc. "You don't know what surprises are out there."
The consensus among analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings, is for 5 percent profit growth in the fourth quarter, down from 9.3 percent at the beginning of the quarter. Futures trading helped drag the market lower, traders said. "Someone with a technical trading model sold" the futures contract on the S.& P. 500, and that "pulled down the market," said Bill Schneider, head of listed block trading at Warburg Dillon Read in Stamford, Conn.
After rising as high as 1,195.60, S.& P. 500 futures traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange fell past 1,190 about 1:50 P.M., Eastern standard time, and the cash indexes fell soon afterward. "There was a lack of buyers" after the futures broke the 1,190 level, said Kevin O'Brien, an analyst for Prudential Securities. The contract closed at 1,181.50.
Much of the volatility in the market was fueled by six computer-guided sell programs and three buy programs, according to Birinyi Associates Inc., a research concern in Greenwich, Conn. The programs had the net effect of a 138-point decline in the Dow, the firm said.
Some 101 stocks reached 52-week highs, while 41 fell to lows for the period. Financial services companies and banks such as J. P. Morgan and American Express fell. Slowing economies from Asia to Latin America threaten to erode their profits. J. P. Morgan fell 3 1/4, to 106 9/16, and American Express slipped 3 3/16, to 97.
Intel and other semiconductor stocks rose amid optimism that strong sales of personal computers and networking equipment will sustain the recent boom in chip sales.
Intel, the biggest chip maker, rose 1 1/8, to 120 1/16, in trading of 24.8 million, making it the second-most-active stock. Earlier, it reached a record of 124. Texas Instruments gained 5/16, to 86; Micron Technology rose 1 5/8, to 52 7/8, and Advanced Micro Devices rose 1/2, to 32.

Treasury Prices Climb
In the United States bond market, Treasury prices rose, driving 30- year yields to a seven-week low, as falling stocks and expectations for subdued inflation amid slowing worldwide growth bolstered the appeal of Government securities.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose for the ninth time in 10 sessions, gaining 20/32, to 104 1/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.99 percent, the lowest since Oct. 19, from 5.03 percent.
Following are results of yesterday's auction of one-year bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 95.647
High Rate . . . 4.30%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.51%
Low Rate . . . 4.25%
Median Rate . . . 4.28%
Total applied for . . . $32,943,608
Accepted . . . $16,363,843
Noncompetitive . . . $750,293
 
The one-year bills mature Dec. 9, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: EHRENKRANTZ KING NUSSBAUM INC (65%); FIRST CALL CORP (64%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); ROHM & HAAS CO (54%); CME GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CHEMICALS MARKETS (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



212 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China's Global Bond Offering Sends Several Messages

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

 BODY:
As most of its neighbors suffer through their worst financial crises of modern times, China stands almost alone. It has held its currency steady, kept its economy primed and continued its long-running economic reforms.
Now, it will collect its reward. 
 Barring last minute changes, China will raise at least $500 million from foreign investors today, becoming the first Asian country to issue an international bond since Russia devalued its currency and defaulted on its debt in August. Moreover, investors appear to be crowning China as Asia's best borrower outside Japan: it is set to pay a lower interest rate on its new debt than South Korea, Thailand or other neighbors would if they tried to raise money today.
With a $140 billion hoard of foreign exchange, China does not need the fresh hard currency this dollar-denominated issue, known as a Yankee bond, will bring. The offering, in fact, is a bit of muscle-flexing by a country that wants everyone to heed Asia's new economic order. Some bankers and investors say that China is raising fresh capital precisely because many of its neighbors cannot, at least without paying far more for the privilege.
"They are net lenders to the world and they have low financing needs, so they really don't need the money," said Charles Van Vleet, a fund manager for Putnam Investments, who intends to buy some of the China bonds. "It's more like they are keeping in front of their potential needs, waving the flag."
Some economists also see another message in the bond, which the lead underwriters, Credit Suisse First Boston and Goldman, Sachs & Company, are expected to officially announce today. China will join Argentina as the only developing country to raise big money from foreign investors since the Russian crisis began. And the two have something else in common: their currencies have not budged against the United States dollar.
Like Argentina, China has fixed the exchange rate of its currency, the yuan, against the dollar, and promised not to change the rate for the foreseeable future. In contrast, Thailand, South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, Russia and many other developing countries have reduced the value of their currencies against the dollar by big margins -- the so-called Asian contagion.
Countries that devalue their currencies get some benefits; their exports are less expensive in dollar terms, for example. But many find it harder to pay back their foreign debt, because it takes more local currency to pay back the same amount of debt after devaluation.
"It is clear from the Asian experience that devaluations destroy wealth and living standards, and they force countries out of global financial markets," said David R. Malpass, chief international economist for Bear, Stearns. "China took a different course, and they were able to retain their access to capital markets even in tough year."
Mr. Malpass sees a lesson for other developing countries, especially Brazil. China's success in introducing an international bond ought to steel Brazil against critics who think it should weaken the value of the real against the dollar, he said.
"There will be an interesting test in 1999 for Brazil, in my view," Mr. Malpass said. "The controlled devaluation some academics are promoting would close it out of international financial markets."
The China bond also appears to relieve fears, at least in the near term, that Beijing will buckle to market pressure and allow the yuan to decline in value. To devalue shortly after selling bonds abroad would be a slap in the face to investors, akin to Russia's disastrous default and devaluation. Also, countries that have plans to reduce the value of their currency are ill advised to take on new debt before the devaluation. That debt would quickly become more expensive to pay, in local currency terms.
"They would not want to immediately incur a foreign exchange loss on a big bond issue, so that should bring some relief to those who feared a devaluation in the short run," said Peter B. Askew, manager of the T. Rowe Price International Bond Fund.
Investors said that a global road show to advertise the new China bond had been a relative success, despite continuing uncertainty about economic reforms in Brazil, Venezuela and other developing countries in recent days. Investors now expect that the interest rate, or yield, of the new 10-year Yankee bond will be pegged just below 300 basis points, or three percentage points, over similar United States Treasury bonds. Several people who follow the market closely said the spread could tighten a bit, to perhaps 280 basis points.
Given buoyant market demand, China might decide overnight to increase the size of its offering to $1 billion.
The offering was helped by a surprise announcement from a leading credit rating agency, Moody's Investors Service, that reaffirmed China's sovereign rating at A3, which is considered a strong investment- grade rating for an emerging-market country. The agency also changed its outlook for China's rating from negative to stable. Moody's attributed its decision to China's commitment to protect its credit rating and to its strong exports.
The offering and the high credit rating show that investors are making a sharp distinction between Chinese companies, even those owned by the state, and the national Government. One prominent Chinese nonbank financial company, the Guangdong International Trust and Investment Corporation, recently defaulted on foreign debt payments. Other such companies have also missed debt payments lately, prompting many Western banks to freeze corporate lending in China.
"We see it as a positive sign that China is beginning to shut down these pseudo-guaranteed banks and letting some of these state-owned companies fail," Mr. Van Vleet of Putnam said. "We do not see that as impacting them at the sovereign level." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); THAILAND (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; RUSSIA; JAPAN; CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); THAILAND (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH DAVID R MALPASS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



213 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Pressing for Iraqi's Overthrow, U.S. Appeals for Arab Support

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration made an open appeal yesterday for Arab support in its campaign to overthrow President Saddam Hussein of Iraq.
The national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said in remarks prepared for a speech at Stanford University, "Saddam's continued misrule of Iraq is harmful to the Middle East as a whole." He laid out economic and political reasons why the region should welcome a new Iraqi Government. 
 "The sooner the situation is Iraq is normalized," he said, "the sooner the people of the Middle East can get on with the business of building a more stable region and the more likely we are to realize our goal of seeing the region integrated, with consent of its people, into the international system."
His address was for an event to honor a former Secretary of State, Warren Christopher, on the publication of his new book, "In the Stream of History."
Mr. Berger acknowledged that the recent American preoccupation with the overthrow of President Hussein was linked to a realization that Washington's long-term policy of containment of Iraq was under serious challenge.
"Through constant confrontation, our policy of containing Iraq has been successful," he said. "But that does not mean that by itself it is sustainable over the long run."
He also conceded that sanctions, imposed in 1990 after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, might not be viable indefinitely. Russia and France are likely to renew pressure in coming weeks to lift at least the oil embargo on Iraq if arms inspections now being resumed there go relatively smoothly.
Other members of the United Nations Security Council are lukewarm at best in supporting the embargo.
"The longer this standoff continues," Mr. Berger said, "the harder it will be to maintain the international support we have built for our policy. Even the toughest of all sanctions regimes in history becomes harder to sustain over time."
Mr. Berger's speech followed one on Thursday by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright at Emory University. She said the American policy of containment of Iraq had changed to one of "containment plus regime change."
Ms. Albright also said the United States was working with Iraqi opposition groups. President Clinton first announced that policy publicly on Nov. 15, when he withdrew the threat of American bombing of Iraq after Mr. Hussein ended a ban on arms inspections.
Even officials in the Administration have doubts about the efficacy of supporting the splintered Iraqi opposition. But exiles say that there has been a notable increase in American activity along those lines as Washington looks for allies in a broader range of groups than in the past.
Abbas Mehdi, chairman of the Union of Independent Iraqis, which links dozens of small groups based in the United States, said in an interview yesterday that exile organizations had been told by American officials and officials in the region that the American Government had made overtures to opposition groups.
One is a Shiite Muslim organization led by Mohammed Bakir al-Hakim, based in Iran and apparently operating with the knowledge of that country's Government. Others include Kurdish parties or parties led by members of Iraq's Kurdish minority.
Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said in Washington recently that the open appeal to opposition groups was "a very fundamental change" in American policy, but that it was still in its fledgling stages.
Mr. Berger, who acknowledged that "change will take time," offered some general incentives to Mr. Hussein's opponents. "We will also stand ready to help a new government in Iraq that respects the rights of its people and meets its obligations to the world," he said. "We would work to ease economic sanctions against such a new Iraq as quickly as possible. We would work to relieve Iraq's massive economic debts."
But Mr. Berger's broadest appeal was to Iraq's neighbors.
"At stake is the stability of Arab and Muslim states, our future relationship with them and our fundamental strategic and economic interests in the Middle East," he said. "At stake is our ability to fight terror, avert regional conflict, promote peace and protect the security of our friends and allies."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
New Inspections in Iraq
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 8 (AP) -- United Nations arms inspection teams initiated a series of surprise searches in Iraq today for banned weapons despite angry assertions from the Government that the searches amounted to harassment.
The official Iraqi News Agency said the inspectors made 32 surprise visits, the highest since they returned to Baghdad last month.
State-run newspapers quoted Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, on a visit to Moscow, as saying there was a limit to Iraq's compliance.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); FRANCE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); FRANCE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARABS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BERGER, SAMUEL R; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



214 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Amid Pompoms and Cheers, Patriots' Owner Campaigns for Hartford Stadium

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 8

 BODY:
A growing number of legislators may be frowning or squirming, but a sea of pompom-waving grade-schoolers and their parents gave Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, a boisterous welcome today as he arrived here to bolster support for a state-subsidized football stadium.
Mr. Kraft brought along five Patriots players to sign autographs for young people at a charity event for the Pop Warner youth football program. And he also brought checks to the Pop Warner league and to a Connecticut organization for urban youth, called Leadership, Education and Athletics in Partnership. 
 In an interview later, Mr. Kraft said he was not overly concerned about the growing skepticism among some Connecticut lawmakers about the stadium deal he negotiated with Gov. John G. Rowland. "I want there to be a good dialogue, and I want people to feel this is the right thing for the community, and if they don't, then we shouldn't come," Mr. Kraft said. "This has got to be a two-way partnership to work."
Mr. Kraft is likely to encounter some of that skepticism firsthand on Wednesday as he goes before the Connecticut General Assembly for a daylong public hearing on the tentative agreement. Mr. Kraft said he was impressed that the Connecticut Legislature had committed millions of dollars to rebuilding Hartford even without the team, and said he hopes to make rejuvenating the city an important part of his legacy.
"We want to be part of this city and want to be involved off the field, putting private capital at risk to help revitalize the city," he said.
Although Mr. Kraft said he planned to continue his charitable commitments in the Boston area and would continue to live there, he promised to bring his philanthropy to Hartford, especially in the areas of youth football and youth development.
"An N.F.L. franchise is like no other business, because it has an ability to touch a community and make the community feel good," he said in the interview. "If you love your family and you love your community and your team is an extension of that, you take pride when your family does well."
A poll released today by Quinnipiac College indicated that Connecticut residents welcome the team but are concerned about the cost. Those polled supported Governor Rowland's plan by 51 percent to 39 percent. But the respondents said it is too generous to the Patriots, by 49 percent to 31 percent.
The poll, which has a margin of sampling error of 3.1 percent, included 988 state residents and was conducted Wednesday through Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (75%); CITIES (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: KRAFT, ROBERT K; ALLEN, MIKE ROBERT K KRAFT (93%); JOHN G ROWLAND (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



215 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Single-Day, Unlimited-Ride Metrocards to Go on Sale Jan. 1

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In the long-awaited final installment to the Metrocard program, New York City Transit will offer a one-day unlimited-ride pass priced at $4 beginning on Jan. 1, a senior official of the transit agency said yesterday.
The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the pass would be sold at more than 3,000 places, including newsstands, delicatessens and hotel lobbies, but not by subway toll booth clerks. Within the subway system itself, they will be sold only through electronic Metrocard vending machines, which are to be installed near the toll booths sometime next year. 
 The introduction of the one-day pass has been repeatedly pushed back by the agency's board. Transit executives say they expect to lose money on the card, as it catches on among riders planning marathon one-day excursions on public transit.
Although the transit agency has said its merchandising plans for the card are intended to reduce crowding at toll booths, transit advocates suggest another motive: to hold down losses by aiming for sales to tourists rather than residents.
The one-day card would provide unlimited rides on buses or subways from the time of purchase until 3 A.M. the next day, the transit executive said yesterday. For most riders, that means the card would not provide 24 hours of continuous use.
Details about the one-day card emerged as the transit agency faced a flurry of fresh criticism over details of its plans to use the proceeds of a budget surplus, which Gov. George E. Pataki said last week would amount to $379 million by the end of the year.
In a letter to E. Virgil Conway, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent of New York City Transit, City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone said yesterday that the agency was planning to use far too little of the surplus to expand service.
He asked that directors of New York City Transit, who are scheduled to vote on a preliminary 1999 spending plan at a meeting today, delay their vote to allow more public discussion. Final approval of the spending plan by the M.T.A. could come as early as Dec. 17.
Mr. Vallone, a frequent critic of New York City Transit's fiscal policy, said his staff had analyzed the preliminary spending plan, which was released a week ago, and found that it would make smaller investments in new bus and subway service than had been contemplated in an earlier plan released in September.
Mr. Vallone's staff also released a budget forecast of its own, finding that even Governor Pataki's surplus announcement had underestimated its growth.
"It looks like commuters are being railroaded," Mr. Vallone said, adding that New York City Transit should postpone its 1999 spending plan "until they come up with something that invests the surplus in better service."
Based on a staff analysis by the City Council's Finance Committee, he estimated that the transit agency's surplus would exceed Governor Pataki's forecast by at least $100 million. Although the surplus is not coming from increased revenue from riders, the Finance Committee analysis said tax revenue from sources like sales tax and corporate surcharge receipts would be far higher than anticipated.
According to the preliminary plan released a week ago, the transit agency would expand service next year on several subway lines, including such congested lines as the 1, 6 and F trains, and would add bus service by expanding its fleet with more than 300 buses next year.
Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the M.T.A., said late yesterday that he did not expect the directors of New York City Transit to postpone their vote on the spending plan today.
Saying the analysis offered by Mr. Vallone was "skewed," Mr. Kelly said the City Council staff members' conclusions were "based on guesswork, whereas we base ours on facts." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (53%); CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY CITY COUNCIL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LOBBYING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (68%); BUDGET FORECASTS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J PETER F VALLONE (87%); GEORGE E PATAKI (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



216 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Lavish World of a Union Leader Now Under Fire

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The office building used by District Council 37 in lower Manhattan has seven elevators -- six public, one private. Most serve the rank and file, taking union members to the rooms where they can file grievances, attend night classes and get information about dental plans. The private elevator, until recently, served the select guests and allies of a union official named Albert A. Diop.
It carried Mr. Diop and his friends to a penthouse that tops the 10-story building. For several years, union officials and investigators now say, Mr. Diop entertained and often slept there, paying the rent out of the dues of the 22,000 clerical workers in the local that he oversees. In the union's democratic setting, Mr. Diop's penthouse symbolized for some the arrogance of power. 
 But the penthouse also reflects the elevated position that Mr. Diop holds in the hierarchy of District Council 37, the powerful umbrella organization that unites 56 local unions and 120,000 municipal employees. Although he often cedes the limelight to more flamboyant colleagues, union officials said, Mr. Diop has long been a dominant figure, the man with considerable influence over the council's longtime executive director, Stanley Hill.
Now, with the district council mired in a broad criminal investigation -- the allegations range from penny-ante corruption to high-stakes ballot fraud -- prosecutors are piecing together the quiet, somewhat extravagant world of Al Diop. That inquiry is focusing on his use of union money for the penthouse, with its laundry and exercise rooms, and on his frequent travels, which included a weeklong trip to Zimbabwe in the late 1980's with several associates and a trip last summer to a union convention in Hawaii. For that excursion, union officials said, he brought along about 300 members, friends and supporters.
Investigators are also examining the circumstances surrounding the tainted 1996 ratification of the council's five-year city contract, which included an unpopular two-year pay freeze. Witnesses have told investigators that most of the thousands of bogus ballots believed to have been used to tamper with the vote were cast in one local, leaving the official tally to read 10,002 votes for ratification and 2,265 against.
That local was Clerical-Administrative Employees Local 1549; its president is Mr. Diop. Among the questions being investigated is whether Mr. Diop had any role in ordering the district council's print shop to make up the extra Local 1549 ballots that are believed to have been used to rig the vote, lawyers familiar with the investigation said.
Mr. Diop declined to be interviewed yesterday. Instead, he issued a statement through a spokeswoman: "I decline to comment on the laundry list of items to respond to on my career of over 30 years at the union for a column to appear in tomorrow's paper. It is extremely unfair to be asked at the last minute to respond to allegations based on rumors, innuendo and slander by political enemies."
Mr. Diop has consistently refused to comment since the allegations of widespread union corruption surfaced several weeks ago. Instead, he has left others to defend him, including Mr. Hill, who was forced last week to take an unpaid leave by the district council's parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which assumed control of the council.
"He said he had no knowledge of it," Mr. Hill said recently, referring to Mr. Diop and the suspected ballot tampering. "The track record of 1549 has been incredibly impeccable."
The record of Local 1549 has also been one of doing things in big ways. It frequently sent the largest contingent to union conferences, whether they were held in Atlantic City or Waikiki. It also often influenced the decisions of the district council, officials said, thanks to a mathematical reality: its 22,000 members represent one-fifth of the council's total membership, and its support was essential to Mr. Hill.
Charles Ensley, the president of the 14,000-member social workers' local and a frequent critic of the district council's leadership, provided what he described as a telling example. In 1991, he said, he argued against holding an executive board retreat in the Bahamas because it might anger union members and produce embarrassing publicity -- at a time when 20,000 members faced layoffs. It was Mr. Diop, he said, who persuaded Mr. Hill and the rest of the board to approve the retreat.
"Diop has always been perceived as the power behind the throne," Mr. Ensley said. "He controls the patronage. Nobody gets anything in the district council without his say."
At 63, Mr. Diop has dedicated most of his life to the union, serving for the last 28 years as the president of Local 1549, whose clerical members earn an average of $25,000 a year. Mr. Diop earned $191,000 as president last year, and $18,400 more as a board member of the parent union. During his tenure, he has been praised for tripling his membership, backing efforts to integrate the union and choosing his allies well.
Mr. Hill and Mr. Diop have been close for decades. When Mr. Hill began as a low-level employee at the district council in 1971, he was assigned to handle the grievances and requests from the members of Local 1549, for many years the council's largest local. And when Mr. Hill became executive director, Local 1549, with the guidance of Mr. Diop, became his power base.
"When people ask questions about how does Hill survive all these years, the core of his support was 1549," Stanley Aronowitz, a labor relations expert at City University, said. "Local 1549 was so big that all Stanley had to do was pick up the support of a few other locals and he could stay in power."
Of course, the Hill-Diop pact also served Mr. Diop's needs. "He's very smart," Victor Gotbaum, Mr. Hill's predecessor as head of the council, said. "He's nicknamed 'The Fox.' "
That nickname may also be attributed to Mr. Diop's stealthy manner. A high-ranking city official who has participated in union negotiations said Mr. Diop almost never attended the negotiating sessions, relying instead on the bargaining skills of an associate or Mr. Hill's.
Mr. Diop's laid-back manner, however, is not always consistent with the decisions he makes in spending the local's money. For example, when the union bought the office building at 125 Barclay Street in 1983, Mr. Gotbaum was so uncomfortable with the penthouse that he never used it. He said he feared the question that would naturally arise from the rank and file, "What the hell is a labor leader doing with a luxury apartment?"
The district council chose instead to rent the space to a businessman. But sometime after Mr. Hill succeeded Mr. Gotbaum in 1986, officials said, Mr. Diop made it clear that he wanted to rent the space.
Permission was granted, and soon the penthouse at the top of a union building was the site of private parties, union officials said, its rent paid by Mr. Diop's local. Mr. Hill has said people slept in the penthouse only on occasion; others said Mr. Diop stayed there regularly until last year, when word of the penthouse began to spread. Although the monthly rent for the penthouse could not be learned, it was described as a two-level apartment with bedrooms and a living room.
Mr. Diop's travel habits also prompted both envy and disgust among his union colleagues. They say the district council often relied on Local 1549 to arrange the evening entertainment so essential to the success of business conferences.
"You can't imagine what a travel operation this man had," said one union official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "He had his own list of bands and his own list of entertainers."
That official and others said Mr. Diop and his entourage traveled often, and usually in first-class style. In addition to the almost routine trips to Atlantic City and to the Catskills for union functions, international union gatherings took them to Switzerland, to Zimbabwe, to Copenhagen, to Tokyo.
"The membership wasn't aware of his whereabouts all the time and neither was the council's staff," said John H. Lewis, a labor relations specialist in the legal department who was assistant director of the clerical division. "We knew he was out of town, but for all we knew, he could have been in Washington at an executive board meeting or he could have been in Switzerland."
Mr. Diop's latest travel extravaganza came last August, when his local flew him and 300 members to the parent union's convention in Hawaii. Union members said he and his tight circle usually fly first class, while members fly economy class.
One union member who spoke on the condition of anonymity said Mr. Diop and other officials decided who would go on the Hawaii trip and other excursions to reward allies and buy off potential opponents. With such techniques, the member said, Mr. Diop has maintained control, and his election slate rarely faces opposition.
"For travel, nothing was spared," Mr. Lewis said. "For parties, nothing was spared. Was the money put to its best use all the time? The answer is no."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Albert A. Diop, president of a local that is part of District Council 37. (The Chief)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; CLERICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1549; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; CLERICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1549; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); CORRUPTION (75%); WITNESSES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COUNTIES (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; DIOP, ALBERT A; HILL, STANLEY ALBERT A DIOP (95%); STANLEY HILL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



217 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Trash War Pits State Against State

 BODY:

To the Editor:
If, as John Tierney writes, officials from Virginia "gladly accept trash from New York and New Jersey" (The Big City column, Dec. 7), why did Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d of Virginia, less than a month ago, declare a moratorium on the construction and expansion of landfills in his state? Because he knows what Staten Islanders have known for some time: Indiscriminate garbage disposal is neither an environmental nor an economic panacea. 
 In fact, even Virginia's state-of-the art landfills discharge toxins into the air and groundwater and have done little for the economy beyond creating low-paying jobs.
 
PAUL C. BERIZZI
New York, Dec. 7, 1998
 
The writer is executive director of Environmental Action Coalition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (56%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LANDFILL LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); WRITERS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BERIZZI, PAUL C; GILMORE, JAMES S 3D (GOV) JIM GILMORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



218 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Daley, Ever Neutralizing Critics, Runs Again

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 8

 BODY:
Mayor Richard M. Daley was minutes away from giving a speech last weekend when Gina Nikolayerich approached him with an unrelated question. She and some neighbors wanted to turn a scrap of land into a tiny park. Could he help?
Eagerly, Mr. Daley pressed for details -- what neighborhood? which block? how big? -- and then quickly summoned an aide to take down Ms. Nikolayerich's address and telephone number. After the speech, Joe Rucci, making a plea for a recreation program for his neighborhood school, got the same treatment. 
 "I'm going to talk to the principal," Mr. Daley replied easily, "and work something out for you."
It would be easy to suspect that the Mayor was merely throwing bones to likely voters. Especially since today, Mr. Daley, who has run this rough-edged, electric city for nearly a decade, declared that in 1999 he would try to win election as mayor for the fourth time.
But critics and close aides alike say Richard Michael Daley loves this kind of thing, listening to the narrow problems of his people and trying to fix them.
"You kind of keep your ear to the ground," Mr. Daley said in an interview this week. "And people are very accessible to me. They come up and talk to me and tell me some things that sometimes I don't like to hear, but they're going to tell me. I say, 'Well what's on your mind?' take their name and telephone number and get somebody to call them back."
As the son of Richard J. Daley, the legendary Chicago political boss and jowly, iron-fisted Mayor, young Richard -- nicknamed Rich or Little Richie or sometimes R2D2 -- faces repeated comparison to his father. Even before his re-election announcement today, there were those who called him Mayor for Life.
And there are clearly a few echoes of the father in the son, especially the apparently genetic propensity to mangle the English language. ("I'm pro-death," Richard M. once said, referring to his support of the death penalty. And "What do you want me to do? Take my pants off?" he asked another time, after complaints that he had not worked hard enough to get a candidate elected.)
But this Richard Daley, 56, is different. And not only because he is trimmer and moved out of his family's old neighborhood, the white ethnic stronghold of Bridgeport. Mr. Daley has one reputation his father never had. After inheriting a bitterly polarized city, Mr. Daley has managed to make many of the city's minorities, including black, Hispanic and gay people, feel acknowledged and included -- and by extension neutralize much of their potential political opposition.
Coming into office after winning a 1989 special election to serve out the term of Harold Washington, Chicago's first and only black mayor, who died in office, Mr. Daley ultimately won the support of most of the city's black aldermen by doling out city services and contracts. He also made overtures to Chicago's fast-growing Hispanic population, with economic development projects and political posts.
"He has certainly reached out -- you see him frequenting the black community, the Latino community," observed the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who said the Mayor had a "quilt, coalition-building style." He added: "He's responsive when he's called. We have disagreements about things structural, not things personal or petty. He's a problem solver as opposed to an antagonistic fighter."
That is significant coming from Mr. Jackson, who has decided to support the only other candidate who has so far announced his intention to seek the mayor's job: Representative Bobby L. Rush, the former Black Panther.
Mr. Rush, 52, a Democrat like the Mayor, accuses Mr. Daley of "pinstriped patronage," giving contracts and tax incentives to "a small group of cronies" and campaign contributors. In his election announcement, last month, Mr. Rush complained that the Daley administration had "mishandled economic development" and that "downtown grows, the Loop flourishes, while the city's neighborhoods and communities are neglected."
The election, to be held on Feb. 23, is the city's first attempt at eliminating party primaries in the mayor's race. People will be able to vote for any candidate they want. If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the votes, the top two voter-getters will have a runoff in April.
Mr. Rush promises to be an energetic campaigner, but most political experts give him little chance against Mr. Daley, who showed his strength on Monday when he filed his election petition with 207,000 signatures on it, eight times as many as required.
"The level of opposition is simply not there," said Don Rose, a longtime liberal political consultant in Chicago who has been critical of some of Mr. Daley's policies. "He makes a move and the move is generally popular, and even the jagged edges of the opposition are trimmed by it. He has smoothed it off. He's defanged the critics."
Take, for example, those who criticize the Mayor's well-publicized infatuation for beautifying the city, with flowers, street lights, sidewalks and an affection for imitation wrought iron.
"There's an increasing preoccupation with the cosmetic," said Jacqueline C. Leavy, executive director of the Neighborhood Capital Budget Group, a consortium of 200 community organizations. "Neighborhood areas continue to struggle, industry continues to leave for the suburbs and our public transportation continues to decline."
But, Ms. Leavy added, "You cannot look at this Mayor without giving him credit for things that have been done, especially the schools." The schools have been a centerpiece of Mr. Daley's tenure, and, with unprecedented power to appoint the school board and the school system's chief executive officer, he has gradually helped raise test scores and improve failing schools.
"That's the only way you're going to keep any families in cities is basically to improve public schools," Mr. Daley said.
While politically astute like his father, Mr. Daley is more of a manager, chewing on an unlighted cigar while wrestling with nuts-and-bolts problems. He has not built major structures, like the new airport he spoke of early on, but in this flush economy he has encouraged developers to gentrify parts of neighborhoods, including the poor black Lawndale section, where he made today's announcement in a brand new movie theater.
There are still plenty of problems in Chicago. While crime has gone down in the city, the number of murders here could be the highest of any major city this year. Not enough has been done to address the brutal poverty in the housing projects (which were started under his father's watch). And Chicago remains one of the most segregated cities in the country.
Asked about that in the interview, Mr. Daley said: "No you have ethnic communities. This idea that Chicago's any different from any other city -- cities are all the same."
But opponents seem relatively isolated, like the handful of protesters in a Mexican-American neighborhood who on Saturday booed the visiting Mayor and his plans to give developers tax incentives there.
"Those are some of my admirers," Mr. Daley mused, unruffled.
In most of his public appearances, Mr. Daley tries to strike a populist note.
"I don't think he feels compelled to speak the King's English," said David Axelrod, the Mayor's political consultant. "He speaks the language of the man on the street."
He bashes lawyers (he is one, although it took him three times to pass the bar).
In his speech last weekend, Mr. Daley argued vehemently for his ordinance in which suspected gang members can be arrested for loitering on street corners. Challenged by civil libertarians and some black leaders who say innocent people were arrested, the ordinance is now before the Supreme Court.
"The opponents say the ordinance restricts the freedom of criminal street gangs to hang out on your street corner," he said. "Not their street corner now, not the judges, not the lawyers -- your street corner."
Later that day, at an unveiling of a neighborhood fountain dedicated to the writer Nelson Algren, Mr. Daley praised, with just a little linguistic boggling, "all the communities that truly make Chicago a community within communities."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the announcement that Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago will run for re-election omitted the name of his predecessor. Mr. Daley first won election in 1989 by defeating Eugene Sawyer, who had been appointed interim Mayor after Harold Washington died in office in 1987. Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the number of blacks who have held the post. Mr. Washington was the first of two; Mr. Sawyer was the second.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago informally campaigned on Saturday, signing autographs at Mitchell Elementary School, as he prepared to announce that he would seek election for the fourth time in February. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); DALEY, RICHARD J (1902-76); WASHINGTON, HAROLD; RUSH, BOBBY (REPR) BOBBY L RUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



219 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 9, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
California to the New York Island

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
The hard times that brought America the Depression, the Dust Bowl, unemployment and war in the 1920's, 30's and 40's are bringing intelligent, warmly satisfying and touching entertainment to the stage of Theater 3 in the form of "Woody Guthrie's American Song."
With a talented and versatile handful of singers and musicians, this production of the Melting Pot Theater in its new home at 311 West 43d Street, Clinton, taps the prose and poetry of Woody Guthrie not only to recall this great folk singer's music but also to evoke -- at a time of record stock market highs and low levels of unemployment -- an era when one-third of the nation lost home and work and savings but clung to pride and dignity. 
 As this musical revue makes its way through more than two dozen Guthrie songs, it conjures up dust storms, Steinbeck's Okies riding jalopies and flat-wheeled freight trains west to the dream that was California, wailing locomotive whistles, hobo camps, lonesome men trudging the highways through rain-swept nights, and an army of the dispossessed dreaming of food and a job and a home.
Costumed by Deborah Shaw, these are gallused men in plaid shirts, eight-piece caps and brown fedoras who welcome a coin tossed in payment for a song plucked out on a battered guitar, and women in high shoes and shawls and shirtwaists and skirts singing as the sun goes down over a hushed jungle camp.
But mixing music and biography, "Woody Guthrie's American Song" also takes its wandering minstrel east to New York in its second act, into an ambiance of Bowery bars and union militancy and impending war.
Always there are the stirring songs: "Bound for Glory," "Worried Man," "Ain't Gonna Be Treated This Way," "Pastures of Plenty" "I Ain't' Got No Home," "Union Maid," "Nine Hundred Miles" and, of course, "This Land Is Your Land."
Conceived, adapted and directed by Peter Glazer, "Woody Guthrie's American Song," with orchestrations, vocal arrangements and musical direction by Jeff Waxman, manages to find both the high beauty and the earthy humor of Guthrie's love affair with America.
The first-rate cast includes two veterans of the Melting Pot's memorable production of "The Portable Pioneer and Prairie Show": Sean McCourt (of "Titanic") and David M. Lutken (from "The Will Rogers Follies"), who draw most of the assignment of portraying Guthrie; James J. Stein Jr. in a variety of roles, and the splendid Ernestine Jackson and Lisa Asher, who bring their fine voices and considerable acting skills to a gallery of strong women.
Many of these players are at home on an assortment of instruments, but Darcie Deaville, Joshus Martin, James David Jacobs and Mr. Waxman, playing at least 15 instruments -- from fiddle and harmonica to mandolin, bass and guitar -- are not to be overlooked in this most satisfying homage to Guthrie and edifying lesson in American history.
 
WOODY GUTHRIE'S AMERICAN SONG
 
Songs and writings by Woody Guthrie; orchestrations, vocal arrangements and musical direction by Jeff Waxman; conceived, adapted and directed by Peter Glazer; sets by Ann Keehbauch; lighting by Stephen Petrilli; costumes by Deborah Shaw; production stage manager, Jennfier N. Rogers; associate producer, Sam Ellis; production supervisor, Kim Doi. Presented by the Melting Pot Theater Company, Larry Hirschhorn, artistic director; Darren Press, managing director; Alice Bergmann, associate producer. At Theater 3, 311 West 43d Street, Clinton.
 
WITH: Lisa Asher, Ernestine Jackson, David M. Lutken, Sean McCourt and James J. Stein Jr.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A review on Wednesday about "Woody Guthrie's American Song," a revue presented by the Melting Pot Theater, misspelled the given name of a musician. He is Joshua Martin, not Joshus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WOODY GUTHRIE'S AMERICAN SONG (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MELTING POT THEATER CO (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); MUSIC (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ARMIES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (72%); POETRY (70%); TRAINS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE; GUTHRIE, WOODY (1912-67) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998



220 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PROUD;
An Old Row House Basks in Its Second Youth

BYLINE: By William L. Hamilton 

 BODY:
WORKING with a decorator was kind of like, 'Whoa,' " said Amanda Sacks, who lives in a newly decorated four-story Victorian town house in Park Slope, Brooklyn. "Because I'd never actually worked with a decorator before." Ms. Sacks, age 9, said she thought the experience was a good one.
"I might choose Chris again," she said, referring to future homes. "If he's still decorating." 
 In June of 1997, when Karen Sacks; her husband, Bradley; their 16-year-old daughter, Jilian, and their 9-year-old twins, Amanda and Blaire, hired Christopher Coleman, a New York decorator, they made it clear that they were all clients -- and available for consultation.
Karen Sacks herself was no remodeling pushover. She is a magazine consultant and an ex-editor in chief of a design magazine, American Homestyle & Gardening. In short order, Ms. Sacks learned things she'd never told her readers -- like, what you think you can do in three months will take a neat year.
She had never hired a decorator. Mr. Coleman had never designed a house.
The job: one of those gorgeous late-19th-century piles that would have made a great funeral home. There was beautiful wood paneling -- wall to wall. Rooms were small parlors. A deep row house with windows only at the front and back, it had ceremonial darkness inhabiting its center hall, where a large stairway rose up through the house like organ music swelling.
But the Sacks family, who had outgrown a house half the size, needed the space. And the top floor had matching bedrooms -- perfect for twins. Ms. Sacks had admired a modern room Mr. Coleman had recently done for a traditional Park Avenue show house. She called him the month they moved in -- with no furnishings in tow.
"I really wanted to have fun with the new house," Ms. Sacks said.
Mr. Sacks, a trial lawyer, weighed in on opening remarks. "Nothing in the house was to be looked at and not used," he recalled telling the decorator.
Mr. Coleman's design dead-lifted the heavy interior in two muscular strokes: bright colors and big shapes. The palette and scale made the house stylish and playful -- both adult- and child-friendly.
Above the paneling, Mr. Coleman installed a background of wallpapers in light shades of yellow and blue with soft paintlike patterns. They pulled the house together as a design, giving every recess a view -- a dappled landscape of wallpaper.
It was a nicely economical decision. "It's putting up a coat of adhesive and slapping on wallpaper as opposed to doing faux-painting," Mr. Coleman said. "You're talking about a morning of work for a room instead of days -- about $1,000 instead of $3,000 to $5,000."
Furnishings fill the foreground with a boisterous freedom of shape and scale.
In the living room, the standard set is there, but it has been radically rethought. A long, kidney-shaped sofa, designed by Mr. Coleman, wraps snugly into a wide bay window. Two broad club chairs, upholstered in a zigzag fabric that looks like lightning in a comic strip, hold the other end. A French 1950's wrought-iron and glass coffee table could be a couturier's chandelier resting on the floor.
In place of a living room mantelpiece -- the ground floor's fireplace is in the center hall -- Mr. Coleman designed a tall console for books and magazines that houses an ottoman beneath. A gong-size bronze mirror hangs above.
"There's a lot of big furniture in small rooms here," Mr. Coleman said. "The scale of this stuff says it's contemporary before you even get to the fabrics and color."
Upstairs in the master bedroom (shown on first page of this section), the decorator reversed the scheme and removed the color to make the parents' room a quiet and peaceful respite from the family life of the house. Modulating grays give it a whisper instead of a shout: a dove-toned smudged checkerboard wallpaper, a silver-papered ceiling, a cut-velvet damask carpet and a custom-made armoire paneled in silver leaf and clouded-pearl washes of stain. The surfaces look like water gliding over stones.
Mr. Coleman worked individually with each daughter, helping her establish important territory: my room. "It isn't the largest room," Jilian Sacks said, "so I decided I wanted it to be purely a bedroom. I told Chris I wanted a comfortable room I could lounge in." She was swiveling in a low, two-person tufted 1940's armchair that Mr. Coleman had found at a thrift store and reupholstered in a harlequinade of colors.
"Blue is my favorite color," Ms. Sacks said, "and I told Chris that. Then I couldn't decide between red and yellow. So we went for all of them." The palette repeats on a cartoon camelback headboard and polka-dot curtains.
On the top floor, the twins rule -- separate but equal and by no means a matched set.
"They were very specific," Mr. Coleman said. "One likes blue, and one likes green. They each had to have the same chair, in their own colors." He designed plastic-laminate desks and display shelves for both, from sketches they approved.
"I wanted places to put my books and dolls instead of just putting them on the floor," Blaire said, sitting in her blue bedroom. "He was good with ideas. I couldn't have really done it myself -- it's too hard."
Amanda designed her tented bed from a model Mr. Coleman showed her in a catalogue; she also chose the Laura Ashley fabric. The wallpaper was a surprise.
"I didn't actually know there were going to be stars and moons," she said of the stenciled cosmos. "When it's dark, I feel like I'm up in the sky." Ms. Sacks showed the patience of a good client. "You get used to seeing stars all over your room," she said.
A guest bedroom, also on the top floor, is a short resume of Mr. Coleman's resourcefulness. The rug is inexpensive commercial carpeting that he had cut in bands of color, backed and glued as a piece, then laid down. On the walls is a rough Mexican tree bark paper, bought in sheets at an art-supply store.
Though major renovations -- and the expenses connected with them -- were already history when the Sackses bought the house, budget was still a nervous subject for clients who had never worked with a decorator.
"That was the scariest part," Mr. Sacks said. "Spending all this money at one time, because we were doing everything start to finish." Mr. Coleman calculated the cost of the fully furnished four floors, which included items specified by the clients, like a security system and other home electronics, at $250,000 -- within 20 percent of the proposed budget.
The Sackses love their decorated house, each for his or her own reason.
"Each room really has a personality to it," Jilian Sacks said. "It's not just things thrown here or there."
Amanda Sacks gave the collaboration high marks.
"Working with a decorator is sort of working by yourself, because you have all these choices," she said. "But really he's there just to help you and to choose what you want."
What's the profession's strong suit?
"Talking," she said.
 
Specs and Sources
 
LIKE any decorator, Christopher Coleman has his tactics: how to spend less, when to spend more, and where to find it:
LIGHTING -- is highly visible and worth some expense, he said. The Sacks house has commissioned designs by Stephen McKay (216 West 18th Street; 212-255-2110), right, and pieces like the Alvar pendant, above (Hinson & Company; 979 Third Avenue, near 59th Street; 688-7754, to the trade).
ART WORK -- can be a big expense. Mr. Coleman goes to shows at schools, including the Fashion Institute of Technology (next one, May 11 through 25, 1999) and Parsons School of Design (spring schedule available from 212-229-8987).
ART-SUPPLY STORES -- are good bets for unusual papers, like the Mexican bark used in the Sackses' guest room, from New York Central Art Supply (62 Third Avenue, at 11th Street; 473-7705).
SAMPLE SALES -- save money and delivery time: be on mailing lists. Mr. Coleman got a lime-green Christine Van Der Hurd rug at the Cappellini Modern Age sale (next one is Jan. 9-20, 1999; 102 Wooster Street, near Spring Street; 343-9070).
CARPETING -- can be cut into rugs, then trimmed, like the Sackses' leather-edge living-room rug, from Misha Carpet (18 East 53d Street; 688-5912, to the trade). Mr. Coleman uses remnants the same way, from ABC Carpet and Home (881 Broadway, near 19th Street; 473-3000).

GRAPHIC: Photos: FAMILY ORBIT -- Steel mirrors, hung like twin moons on facing walls, invite mystery as well as visitors in the small vestibule. The living room, is lithe of line, bright with color and bold in shape. On the console, books and magazines make an entertainment center. DECORATING TEAM -- The Sacks family, in the dining room with their decorator, Christopher Coleman. The liv-ing room used big-scale pieces to create a light, contemporary look in a dark, late-Victorian house. GIRLPOWER -- Blaire wanted doll display. Her twin sister, Amanda, wanted a tented bed. Jilian, 16, wanted lounge culture. A guest room is a holiday in the sun. (Photographs by Andrew Bordwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOMESTYLE & GARDENING (56%); CHRIS I (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRIS I (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); LAWYERS (67%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L; SACKS, KAREN; SACKS, BRADLEY; COLEMAN, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



221 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 4; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: On-Line Shopping: Good, Bad and Growing;
Not Every Maker Wants Its Products Sold on the Net, at Least Not by Others

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
WITH on-line sales booming, millions of people are going to try to see if they can cut down on trips to the mall this holiday season and do some shopping over the Internet. Some will end up being disappointed.
Anyone whose shopping list includes, say, a Ralph Lauren sweater, a Pioneer car radio, a Burton snowboard or even the latest Beanie Baby from Ty Inc. will search high and low in cyberspace without finding it. The reason? These manufacturers prohibit retailers from selling their products on line. 
 To be sure, the Web is brimming with retailers, and new stores and shops are going on line every day, leaving the impression that the Internet is a vast, freewheeling bazaar. Still, many well-known brands cannot be found on line because their manufacturers contend that the Internet flattens even the most luxurious item to a garish, flickering image and then pits retailers around the world in a grueling price war.
"We don't think of our products as commodities that can be managed by point, click and order," said Ed Sachs, executive vice president for sales at Pioneer Electronics, which prohibits dealers from selling its audio and video products on line.
Pioneer's stance is still common in many industries. That is especially so among makers of more expensive lines, which are concerned about controlling the image of their brands and have always tried to have a small number of local stores, whose loyalty they are loath to upset. Other manufacturers are resisting the Internet because they want to join it later, selling their goods themselves.
For now, Internet shopping remains a very slim slice of the retailing pie. The Direct Marketing Association predicts that this year, $4.7 billion worth of goods and services will be sold on line -- slightly more than 5 percent of the $87 billion that will be sold by direct mail and telemarketing and a tiny fraction of the $2.6 trillion in overall retail sales in the United States.
In the future, of course, Internet selling is expected to claim a much bigger share of the shopping dollar. Virtually nonexistent four years ago, shopping on line is now the fastest-growing form of retailing. This year's Christmas sales are expected to be two and a half times last year's, with hundreds of thousands of people buying on line for the first time. Consumers have been lured by the shop-at-home convenience and the ability to pick from a huge selection of products, whatever the omissions. And early fears about credit card fraud are fading as millions of people buy products on line with few reported problems.
As on-line shopping begins to move into the mainstream, manufacturers are coming under increasing pressure to allow their products to be sold in cyberspace.
"There is a spiral effect," said Maria Latour Kadison, an analyst with Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass., firm that tracks Internet trends. "As more consumers come on the Internet, it drives retailers to expand their offerings on line. And when the retailers offer better selection and easier-to-use stores, it draws even more consumers on line."
So while many manufacturers are "afraid to hurt the existing brick-and-mortar retail channels that have supported their brands," she said, "they will either change their minds or they will lose out." There are already many brands that encourage on-line sales, including Philips Electronics, Donna Karan and Mattel.
Other manufacturers have kept on-line stores from selling their goods simply because they want to sell their goods themselves.
Macy's flagship store at Herald Square in Manhattan, for example, has rack upon rack of jeans and chinos from Levi Strauss. But Macy's new Internet site, macys.com, does not carry a single pair of Levi's among its 250,000 items. Why? Because Levi's insists that the only place to buy its products on the Internet is at www.levi.com.
"We want to present our brand at its best, both in terms of assortment and presentation," said Jay Thomas, Levi's director of digital marketing.
Levi's, moreover, faces vigorous competition from the Gap, which has been doing a brisk business at its Internet store. The Gap (www.gap.com)does not face any retailer-manufacturer conflicts, because it makes and sells its own products.
Some manufacturers, however, have been forced to restrict on-line sales because of pressure from their existing dealers.
"At first, we sold to a number of Internet sites, but we had to stop," said Lee Carlson, president of Belinda Barton Furnishings for Children, a maker of expensive sheets and towels in Cutchogue, N.Y. "Our stores were upset. Their main concern was that people would go on line and find prices that were lower than what they were selling for."
On-line shoppers are caught in the middle of these squabbles. Gregory Frye, for example, a fan of Calvin Klein, has been able to find only a few of the designer's perfume items at the Macy's site and some of the underwear line at a small site called www.metromanusa.com.
Robert Triefus, a senior vice president for Calvin Klein, said the company was worried that it would lose control of its brand image if its goods were sold on the Internet. Moreover, the company has not figured out how cyberspace fits into its existing geographic distribution agreements.
"Some of our licensees have agreements that cover certain territories," Mr. Treifus said. "The Internet, by definition, is worldwide distribution."
Such concerns about control show that the retail universe in cyberspace, despite the booming on-line trade in books, compact disks and computer equipment itself, is still at a fledgling stage.
Without access to the merchandise, on-line entrepreneurs cannot hope to become the next Amazon.com. The best example is in consumer electronics, where none of the small on-line merchants have anything close to a complete selection.
Greg Drew, chief executive of 800.com, a start-up company with an Internet consumer electronics store, said he has been able to buy the basic lines of television and audio equipment that are sold in such mass market retailers as Kmart, but not the sort of sophisticated models that many Internet users want.
"We can get the low-end stuff, but the high-end stuff we can't even get close to," he said.
Similarly, many makers of consumer appliances, like Maytag, have not been willing to let their dealers sell on line.
"Appliances are a huge business which has become increasingly concentrated through the major retail chains: Sears, Circuit City, etc," said Trevor Traina, a founder of Comparenet, an electronic shopping guide (compare.net). "Their cozy relationships with retailers are keeping them from doing things that will build their business."
James G. Powell, a spokesman for Maytag, said local dealers provided better service and support for its products than Internet sellers who might be halfway across the country from the buyer. "We want to protect our premium brand reputation," he said.
Of course, designers, electronics companies and others have long sought to preserve their reputations and prices by limiting the number of stores they sell through. And whole industries have evolved to help consumers get around those restrictions. In fashion, there are many stores selling close-out items and overstocks at discount prices. There are discount electronics stores that sell goods purchased in the gray market -- that is, through unauthorized distribution channels -- rather than directly from the manufacturers.
All these businesses have their counterparts on the Internet. Bluefly (www.bluefly .com) sells off-price clothing, including some items from designers like Ralph Lauren who will not directly supply Internet stores with their goods.
And there has also been a rise of gray market dealers of other goods, even Beanie Babies, those small stuffed animals whose ever-so-cute variations have made them a rage among collectors. There is a vast secondary market for older Beanie Babies among the Internet auctions. But Ty Inc. refuses to sell directly to any company that wants to offer new Beanies on line. (A spokesman for Ty did not return several calls for comment.)
"It's not easy to get Beanie Babies, but we get them," said Toby Lenk, chief executive of Etoys (etoys.com), an on-line store that is usually able to buy directly from the big toy makers. "But since we go through a middleman, we charge $8.99 or $9.99 for a model that people who get the product directly sell for $5.99."
The scarcity of Beanie Babies is an exception, and most manufacturers fear that the gray market, and Internet sales in general, will lower, rather than raise, the prices of their goods. They argue that this will ultimately hurt them and their customers by squeezing out local stores.
"Maybe if you bought a snowboard on the Internet, it might be a few bucks cheaper, but it wouldn't help the sport," said Jake Burton, founder and chairman of Burton Snowboards in Burlington, Vt., which will not let its products be sold on line. "The specialty retailer has played a huge role in getting this sport off the ground."
Still, a number of on-line stores have been able to persuade manufacturers to sell to them by promising not to discount their products or otherwise cheapen their image.
Fragrance Counter, an on-line cosmetics store (www.fragrancecounter.com), has won over some of the most reluctant and image-conscious manufacturers by seeking to create an upscale boutique that is the "57th Street and Madison Avenue of cyberspace," said Eli Katz, chief operating officer of the company . "We sell everything at suggested retail price, and we romance and describe every product."
But perfume vendors were not convinced at first. "They thought that selling fragrances on a computer was bizarre," Mr. Katz said. "Now people see how the Internet adds incremental sales." Fragrance Counter now carries nearly every major perfume line except for some very expensive brands.
Other Internet holdouts like Oakley, a maker of sunglasses, are also beginning to dip their toes in the on-line waters. But Oakley has spurned the sites of big dealers like Sunglass Hut, granting on-line rights only to Eyevault, a California start-up.
"We have always focused on selective distribution," said Link Newcomb, Oakley's chief executive. I don't think that on-line retail should be any different."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Limited Access"
While a growing number of products are available on the Web, many popular brands, like those shown here, are hard to find or not available. Some can be found only at company sites or on the gray market
 
Maytag -- Looking for a Maytag washer or dryer? Forget it. They are not for sale on the Web.
 
Beanie Babies -- Ty Inc. dies not sell on the Internet, but many sites offer older, collectible models, and some offer new ones.
 
Oakley -- A Web holdout, is slowly putting its shades on line.
 
Ralph Lauren -- The company does not directly supply Internet sites.
 
Calvin Klein -- Although a few goods are available on line, the company is still devising an Internet policy.
 
Levi's -- The blue jeand can be bought on the Web -- but only at Levi's own site.
William Lopez (Beanie Babies)
 
(William Lopez Beanie Babies ; G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times Calvin Klein )(pg. G5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (72%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TY INC (72%); BURTON CORP (57%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING INTERNET RETAILING (92%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); BRAND EQUITY (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); TELEMARKETING (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL RALPH LAUREN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



222 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 26; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Chase Bank Finds Room for Small Borrowers

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
One of the nation's largest banks has developed a new loan program to help small businesses with loans as small as $5,000 to business owners as diverse as hair designers, yoga instructors, flower arrangers and tea importers.
Large banks typically do not make such small loans because the borrowers have little or no business experience, the loans are in relatively great danger of default, and they are less profitable to the bank than larger loans. More than 90 percent of small businesses fail in their first year, bankers say. But community-based loan funds, known as "community development financial institutions," do make small loans and aggressively court the smallest of small-business customers. They have less money to lend than big banks, however, and thus have more at stake when a small loan goes sour. 
 "This is street banking at its most aggressive but also at a high level of risk," said Julio Colon, president of the Renaissance Economic Development Corporation, a community loan fund on the Lower East Side that makes loans to businesses in Chinatown; Corona, Queens, and the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn.
Under a program announced this week, Chase Manhattan Bank, the nation's third largest, with assets of more than $350 billion, said it planned to work with 11 community-based loan funds in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, including Mr. Colon's group. These community loan funds each have less than $1 million in lendable assets.
Chase will perform the costly tasks of determining which potential borrowers are credit worthy. These costs can total as much as $3,000 a loan, which would be trivial for a $1 million loan but could be prohibitive for a $20,000 loan, the typical amount that community loan funds lend. After Chase completes the loan, the loan fund can buy up to 30 percent of the loan, which provides it with interest income but without the initial underwriting costs.
"This is a first," said Carol J. Parry, executive vice president of Chase Manhattan. "We do all the work and the community development financial institutions benefit. I don't know of any other bank that does this. Potentially we could lend millions of dollars through this program. There really is no theoretical limit."
"We have the money," she continued, "and the C.D.F.I.'s know the community and can provide the technical support," like helping small businesses with business plans, marketing and tracking inventory. The bank would benefit because small-business borrowers typically deposit their day's receipts at the bank where they have their working-capital loan, she said.
Over the last two years, Ms. Parry said, Chase has devoted $50 million in loans and outright grants to small community loan funds. Ms. Parry said the new program, if successful, might expand to most of Chase's branches in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Texas, where it has retail branches.
Renaissance Economic Development is one of the more active community loans funds, having made 22 loans totaling $400,000 over the last two years. The borrowers' annual revenues typically range from $100,000 to $600,000 each. "The fastest-growing businesses in this city are owned by women, immigrants and minorities who rent the storefronts and the tiny spaces on the upper floors," said Mr. Colon, the president. "But very often they need help with the bread and butter, like accounting and city permits and medical coverage for employees."
He added, "A success story for us is if they stay in business." A recent borrower is Lisa Mitchell, a hairstylist whose work with clients like Naomi Campbell, the model, and Demi Moore, the actress, was covered in an article in the November 1997 issue of Vogue. A $25,000 loan provided working capital for her Manhattan hair salon, which now has more than 200 customers, Mr. Colon said.
In New York, the loan funds working with Chase Manhattan are the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, Credit Inc., the Greater Jamaica Local Development Corporation, the Regional Economic Development Corporation, Rural Opportunities Enterprise Center Inc. and Renaissance Economic Development. In New Jersey, they are the New Community Development Corporation, the New Jersey Community Loan Fund and the Union County Economic Development Corporation. In Connecticut, they are the Community Economic Development Fund and the New Haven Community Investment Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lisa Mitchell got a loan for her hair salon on the Lower East Side through a community loan fund aided by Chase Manhattan Bank. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SMALL BUSINESS; CREDIT SMALL BUSINESS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TEA (73%); TEA MARKETS (72%); YOGA (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY JULIO COLON (74%); CAROL J PARRY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



223 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Judge Dismisses Suit by Firefighters to Block Regional Department

 BODY:
A judge has dismissed a suit by firefighters in Union City, N.J., to block the formation of a regional fire department among four communities in northern Hudson County, and local officials say the new department should be in operation by early next month.
The ruling bodies in Union City, North Bergen, Weehawken and West New York voted to combine their fire departments in September. Critics of the effort say it could jeopardize safety by reducing the total number of firefighters. But proponents say the effort will save money through enhanced efficiency and will actually increase safety by eliminating municipal boundaries in fire protection and allowing the closest firefighters, whichever town they may be in, to respond first. 
 Guttenberg voted last month to enter the regional department, known as North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue, and Ralph J. Lamparello, the lawyer for the department, said officials of the other communities gave assurances at a meeting on Tuesday that the tiny town would be accepted.
The union had argued in its lawsuit that the decision to enter into a regional department should be put to a vote by residents, and firefighters gathered close to 6,000 signatures from residents in support of holding a special election on the issue.
David I. Fox, the lawyer for the union, the Firemen's Mutual Benevolent Association, said the City Board of Commissioners improperly skirted a state law that requires a referendum on the transfer of city assets to another jurisdiction.
However, transfers to semiautonomous authorities, bonding agencies that are often used for economic development, are exempt from referendums. So rather than transferring ownership of their firehouses, trucks and other equipment directly to the regional department, the ruling bodies of each community instead voted to transfer the assets to the Hudson County Improvement Authority, which will lease the equipment to the regional departments. "We thought this was pretty blatant subterfuge to get around what they were supposed to do," Mr. Fox said.
But Judge John McLaughlin ruled in State Superior Court in Jersey City on Tuesday that city officials had acted properly, Mr. Lamparello said. He said that in his ruling, Judge McLaughlin cited an executive order signed by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman on Sept. 16 calling on state agencies to review their policies to insure that they did not hinder regionalization. Mr. Lamparello said Governor Whitman would visit the area this afternoon to discuss regionalization with local mayors.
Mayor Rudy Garcia of Union City said the decision eliminated any further boundaries for the regionalized department to take effect, possibly by Jan. 4, after decades of discussion and failed efforts. "Regionalization is going to be good for the taxpayer," he said. "it's good for residents' safety."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNION CITY (NJ); HUDSON COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (71%); 

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, JOHN (JUDGE) RALPH J LAMPARELLO (81%); HUDSON REGIONAL (69%); CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (66%); DAVID I FOX (64%); JOHN MCLAUGHLIN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



224 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: THE POP LIFE;
2 Big Forces Converging To Change the Sale of Music

BYLINE: By NEIL STRAUSS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 9

 BODY:
This winter is quickly shaping up as one that will affect the music business and market for years to come. Two enormous changes have been taking place, utterly separate yet inextricably interlinked.
The first is that on Thursday, Seagram is expected to close its deal to buy Polygram Records from Philips. Over the next month, beginning with a meeting on Friday morning with Polygram employees at the Hudson Guild Theater in midtown Manhattan, the beverage and entertainment corporation will begin merging Polygram with the Universal Music Group, which it already owns. 
 This will be the country's biggest record company, reducing the number of major labels from six to five and accounting for nearly a quarter of the music market. As a side effect, over the next month as many as 3,000 employees are expected to lose their jobs, important record labels will disappear and executives at the labels estimate that anywhere from dozens to 200 bands will be released from their labels.
The second change is that a war of sorts has been taking place between on-line entrepreneurs and the music establishment. The battlefield is the Internet, where in the last year some 150,000 songs, according to the research company Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., have become available as computer files in a format called MP3, which compresses songs into easy-to-transfer bundles of CD-quality information.
Some of these songs are on the Internet legally, with the permission of the band or record label that holds the copyright; others are bootlegged. Producers and consumers of MP3 music have accused the record industry of trying to suppress the spread of the format under the guise of stamping out piracy. But already there have been an estimated five million downloads of Winamp, which is just one of many software packages created to play MP3 files. And Internet sites like www.MP3.com, a gateway to thousands of free and cheap songs and albums, reports some 150,000 visitors a day. Recently Chuck D of the rap group Public Enemy became the first mainstream musician to take an adversarial stand on the matter, striking out against his label, Polygram-owned Def Jam, after he uploaded a new song, "Bring the Noise 2000," onto his Web site for fans.
"Today Polygram/Universal or whatever they're now called forced us to remove the MP3 version of 'Bring The Noise 2000,' " he complained on the Web site. "The execs, lawyers and accountants who lately have made most of the money in the music biz are now running scared from the technology that evens out the creative field." Executives at Def Jam and Polygram declined to comment on the matter.
Clearly what is happening on the Internet is diametrically opposed to what is happening at record companies: as major labels are consolidating and tightening, the music world on the Internet is expanding and opening. In the process, Seagram is finding an artist rebelling; other record labels are finding that some acts want to make deals only if they are allowed to distribute or even sell some of their own music on the Internet, and still other acts, like the Beastie Boys, are uploading live songs on the Internet as MP3 files instead of giving them to their record company to use for their own promotional purposes. And the band Less Than Jake found itself in trouble when it posted songs owned by its label, Capitol, without permission.
"When you become very big, it becomes very hard to turn around," said Dave Turin, a producer who runs People Tree, an Internet label and music store for releasing less commercial side projects by well-known musicians, including members of Porno for Pyros and the Dust Brothers. "I see major labels as a huge Michelin man made of cement, trying to turn around to see what's behind him but crumbling into pieces in the process."
Even some major labels agree with Mr. Turin's assessment. "Labels are going to wait to see what happens and then plug into it," said the top executive at one label, speaking on condition of anonymity about his label's lack of a plan for distributing music on the Internet. "They have to deal in the here and now. The economics and expectations of corporate owners is to make short-term financial results, not to be pioneers of the future."
Perhaps a perfect David and Goliath Internet story is the controversy over Diamond Multimedia's Rio device, the first portable MP3 player (able to store songs from the computer on a flash card, or memory chip, in a Walkman-like device the size of a deck of cards). Instead of trying to reissue records, create compilations and release live recordings on flash cards for the Rio, critics say, record labels have been trying to wipe it out.
"Devices like the Rio are troubling because they encourage consumers to download illegal copies of our recordings," explained Kevin Conroy, the senior vice president for world-wide marketing at BMG Entertainment. He added that "the proliferation of illegal MP3 recording devices will undermine and possibly destroy the legitimate commercial market for digitally delivered music before it even has a chance to develop."
Last month, the Recording Industry Association of America obtained a temporary restraining order to keep Diamond from shipping its Rio player. But the order was overturned by a Federal judge, and the Rio is now available for $199. The R.I.A.A. appealed the decision, and last week Diamond Rio countersued, accusing the association of engaging in anti-competitive business practices.
Ken Wirt, Diamond's vice president for corporate marketing, said the Rio was not intended to encourage piracy, which, he said, could be found and stamped out much more easiily on the Internet then in the flea markets and street stalls where bootlegged CD's are available. "It's the right of major labels to encrypt their music," he said, referring to the ability to make Internet music files difficult to copy. "But it's not their right to tell the thousands and thousands of independent musicians who use the MP3 market as their lifeline -- to distribute and sell their music -- that they can't do anything until the major labels get their voice in there. The R.I.A.A. wants to delay everything as long as possible, discouraging the production of MP3 among their members and discouraging the market for the players."
Hillary Rosen, the president of the association, disputed Diamond's claims. Rather than suppressing technology, she said, the association is concerned about upholding copyright law. It cannot support devices like the Rio until there are effective security measures in place, she said. A record-business policy on the subject could emerge as early as next month, executives said.
"I know there's a lot of frustration with the slow pace of the majors in approaching these issues," Ms. Rosen said. "But there's a lot at stake. When there's a major release," costing "two or three million in the making, the idea of putting it up for free in an MP3 format is not your first priority, by nature."
For many keeping tabs on the battle, the issue seems like a rerun of the music industry's offensive against the spread of cassette decks, which saw the rise of skull-and-crossbone stickers that read "Home Taping is Killing Music." It didn't.
Already, technology may be moving beyond MP3 (short for MPEG-1, layer 3) and into MPEG-4, which compresses the data even more and is more adaptable to multimedia files. Companies like Sony and Creative Labs are working on portable devices that will play these files and prevent them from being easily copied.
Recently, the Intertrust Technologies Corporation in Sunnyvale, Calif., announced that beginning next year it would offer an advanced system for MPEG-4 files called the Intellectual Property and Management Protection interface, which will secure files, mete out royalties to appropriate parties and allow copyright holders to decide who gets their music, for how much money and how many times they can listen to it.
"In the next year the whole Web-based music business is going to morph," said Joe Jennings, a senior vice president at Intertrust. "You're going to see within a reasonable amount of time new types of devices in your car to buy music as you drive, new devices at plane terminals where you can download a set of songs for the flight, where your computer can be on a 'dist' list of all the music a band is putting out."
Marc Geiger, a co-founder of Artist Direct, which sells music merchandise through its Ultimate Band List on the Internet, envision a system in which record companies could increase profits by letting consumers subscribe to unlimited music on the Internet, for a monthly fee.
But as dreamers dream and inventors invent, the consolidating record business seems reluctant to change. "They're fooling themselves," Stan Goman, the chief operating officer of Tower Records, responded when told about Intertrust's solution. "These kids can break into the Pentagon on their computers, so they're going to figure out a way to crack this system. There's no way out of it. If the record companies thought home-taping was a drag on their sales, wait until MP3 gets going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuck D of the rap group Public Enemy. (Rahav Segev) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CBS INTERACTIVE INC (58%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (89%); MUSIC (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); WEB SITES (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); COPYRIGHT (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



225 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Less Growth In November

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9

 BODY:
Economic growth slowed in many parts of the country in November, and inflation remained absent as wage pressures lessened, the Federal Reserve said today.
Export industries contracted, farms were under stress and retail sales were weaker than expected, the Fed said in its latest report on the economy, known as the beige book. "Labor markets remained tight in nearly all districts, but reports suggest that wage pressures have subsided somewhat," it wrote. 
 The economy grew in all 12 of the Fed's regions, though the pace of expansion slowed in five districts -- Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, Kansas City and St. Louis, the central bank said. "Prices of goods were reported to be steady or falling in nearly all districts."
The Fed's latest assessment of the economy "favors another rate cut in the not-too-distant future," though not before the end of the year, said William Sullivan, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. Fed policy makers have reduced borrowing costs three times since the end of September, most recently on Nov. 17, when the Federal Open Market Committee cut the target Federal funds rate on overnight bank loans by a quarter-point, to 4.75 percent, its lowest level since November 1994,
The Fed's regional outlook is based on reports from the Fed's district banks. It is published eight times each year. The latest edition was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, based on information collected before Dec. 1.
The report will help form the basis for discussion on interest rate targets at the Dec. 22 meeting of the Fed's policy-setting panel, the Federal Open Market Committee.
The economy is likely to cool, expanding about 2 percent next year, said Michael Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. "The international situation continues to pose risks to U.S. exports and the world economy in general," he said last week to the Illinois Manufacturers Association.
The Fed said construction helped offset some of the weakness in manufacturing as low interest rates and strong consumer confidence fueled home building. Commercial construction also staged a rebound in some parts of the country, the Fed said.
In banking, loan demand was strong, but bankers were reported to be setting tougher standards for lending money, the Fed said.
Healthy crops, weak demand and falling prices have hurt farmers, the Fed said. "Apple orchards in the Pacific Northwest went unpicked because prices were too low to cover production costs," the Fed said. Grain bins and elevators are filled to capacity in many parts of the United States, leaving farmers to store grain on the ground, the Fed said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (77%); NORTHWEST USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (77%); NORTHWEST USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



226 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN CLIMBS. Japan's currency rose sharply against the dollar on comments from Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa in support of a weaker dollar. In New York, the dollar traded at 117.82 yen, down from 119.31 yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since June 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

PERSON: MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (MIN) KIICHI MIYAZAWA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



227 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Quarterly Record In Trade Deficit

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9

 BODY:
The overall United States trade deficit surged to $61.3 billion in July through September, a fourth consecutive quarterly record, as the Asian financial crisis dug deeper into the United States economy. Exports of everything from soybeans to computers are down for the year.
The Commerce Department reported today that the current-account deficit rose 8.1 percent in the third quarter compared with a deficit of $56.7 billion in the spring. 
 The trade report marked the fourth straight quarterly record for the current account, the broadest measure of international commerce. The deficit is on its way to a record annual figure of $220 billion, far surpassing the previous record of $168 billion in 1987.
In the third quarter, the deficit in goods totaled $64.4 billion, essentially unchanged from the second quarter. Exports of farm and manufacturing products fell, but a drop in oil imports helped keep the overall goods imbalance from rising from the record level reached in the second quarter.
The American surplus in services, such as travel and consultants' fees, shrank to $18.6 billion, down $2 billion from the second quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



228 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A combination of Exxon and Mobil would not be as fearsome for consumers as critics contend.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
THE proposed $80 billion merger between Exxon and Mobil raises a question: At what point does a company get so big that its size alone becomes a nightmare for consumers?
Critics of the deal have called it "Rockefeller's Revenge," contending that this and other oil mergers threaten to stitch back together the pieces of the Standard Oil Company, broken up in 1911. 
 But the historical analogy is vapid. Exxon-Mobil would control only about 13 percent of the American market. Besides, it is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, not private oil companies, that controls 40 percent of the world oil market and sets price and output targets. As a group, the private companies help keep OPEC in line, but none controls much of anything.
It is for those reasons that Morris Adelman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, regards the expected antitrust investigation by the Federal Trade Commission "as an exercise in trivial pursuit."
Mr. Adelman no doubt exaggerates. But the commission would be hard pressed to persuade a court to block the merger. For starters, bigness is irrelevant to the antitrust law. Only competition matters. And while companies have grown bigger over the decades, markets have not grown significantly less competitive. In effect, there are more big companies competing against one another.
F. Michael Scherer of Harvard University provides unpublished estimates of the trends in concentration. In 1947, he calculates, around 25 percent of the nation's manufacturing output came from highly concentrated industries. By 1992, the number had risen to only about 28 percent. Measured differently, the four largest manufacturing companies in an industry typically controlled about 35 percent of sales in 1947. By 1972, the percentage had risen to 39 percent and did not budge through 1992.
In the case of oil, there is also evidence that bigness helps consumers. Matthew Simmons, an energy investment banker, says that data from company reports show that the largest oil companies spend less on exploration and production for every barrel of oil than do smaller companies. Philip Verleger, a senior adviser to the Brattle Group, an economic consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., argues that mergers, by cutting exploration and production costs, will ultimately lead to lower prices for consumers. He also argues oil companies have to become huge, undertaking many projects, in order to spread the risk of putting up the vast sums of money that are now required to explore for oil reserves. Laying pipeline from the Caspian Sea through Turkey, or drilling more than a thousand feet down in the Gulf of Mexico require investments measured in the billions.
Indeed, it takes huge investment just to stay alive in the oil business. The Simmons data show that 10 large oil companies have spent over $26 billion a year over the last 10 years to raise output by a mere 1 percent a year, a process Mr. Simmons describes as "running just to stay in place."
But do the large companies achieve low production costs because they are large, or are these companies large because they knew how to find and drill oil cheaply? And there are also reasons to be skeptical about some of the industry's claims. Companies the size of Mobil that contend that they cannot find the money to make risky investments make little sense, Mr. Adelman says. Oil companies have been allowed to create joint ventures, free of antitrust challenge, to explore for oil in specific locations. They do not need to merge their entire operations.
With the Exxon-Mobil merger, there are uncontroversial antitrust issues that the commission will handle with relative ease. There are regions, like the Northeast, where a combination of the two companies would monopolize the retail gas market. Their refineries dominate parts of the South. But the commission has a good record of forcing companies that merge to sell gas stations, refineries and terminals to preserve competition. Exxon and Mobil expect such orders.
But the issue at the exploration and production end of the industry cannot be so easily resolved. Perhaps the easiest way to think about the commission's deliberations is to imagine the world oil market after Asia rebounds and oil prices begin to recover from their recent 40 percent nose dive. At that point, would OPEC have a harder time imposing its will on the market if it faced competition from eight major private oil companies, as would be true today, or if the number of competitors shrank by two, assuming British Petroleum is allowed to merge with Amoco and Exxon to merge with Mobil?
Said another way, would OPEC plus six be substantially worse for consumers than OPEC plus eight? The problem gets more complicated still, given that Saudi Arabia has recently hinted that it may be prepared to invite the major companies back into their domestic oil operations. Mr. Adelman loses no sleep over the prospect of OPEC plus six. Other economists are less sure.
If the economics of the Exxon-Mobil merger poses no grave threat, there is a danger nonetheless. The threat to consumers of huge companies can be offset by the presence of rivals, big or small. But there is no similar offset in the political sphere. Given the nation's porous campaign finance laws, huge companies exert oversized influence. That is not a problem the antitrust laws can or should solve. But it goes a long way to explain why megamergers make Americans cringe even if, as Mr. Adelman says, the economic threat is minute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EXXON CORP; MOBIL OIL CORP EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%); STANDARD OIL CO (72%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC); EXXON CORP; MOBIL OIL CORP ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); MERGERS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M MATTHEW SIMMONS (61%); MORRIS ADELMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



229 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Wishful Thinking in Baghdad

 BODY:
By turning international weapons inspectors away from the headquarters of its ruling party yesterday, Iraq showed why the United Nations Security Council should make no move toward lifting economic sanctions. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright was right to warn promptly that Washington will hold up any review of Iraq's status until Baghdad honors its pledge of unhindered access for the weapons investigators. The surprise inspections that began Tuesday, in which U.N. specialists look for hidden materials and records with little advance notification, are particularly important.
Iraq is seeking a review not only of arms issues but also its record in other areas, like returning Kuwaiti prisoners and property. Baghdad is hoping for some recognition of overall progress and a narrowing of the requirements to win relief from sanctions. 
 The country has done little to merit a favorable report. Its record on arms, as reported in October by the U.N. inspection chief, Richard Butler, is poor to mixed. There are large gaps in Iraq's ability to account for the supplies of VX nerve gas, anthrax bacteria and botulinum toxin it was known to possess before the Persian Gulf war. On non-weapons issues, Iraq has done even less to meet obligations that were supposed to have been fulfilled more than seven years ago.
Yesterday's incident was perfectly consistent with Saddam Hussein's seven-year record of obstruction. Iraq has permitted routine inspections since the most recent crisis eased last month, but it has rebuffed requests for relevant documents and now looks to limit surprise visits.
Mr. Hussein never ceases to hunt for ways to divide the Security Council in hopes that he can limit inspections while winning relief from sanctions. The two goals are incompatible. The only route to lifting sanctions is full cooperation with inspections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ANTHRAX (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); TRENDS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); BACTERIA (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



230 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Debt Relief After a Killer Storm

 BODY:
Even before Tropical Storm Mitch devastated Nicaragua and Honduras, they were Latin America's poorest nations. While they are still struggling to prevent disease, provide shelter and get food to the victims, those nations and their less-affected neighbors are thinking about long-term reconstruction. They need billions of dollars to rebuild. Creditor nations and international donors must forgive the debts of Honduras and Nicaragua. Washington should also grant the region trade preferences that encourage economic growth.
Nicaragua, one of the world's most indebted nations, owes $6 billion to governments and institutions such as the International Monetary Fund. Last year it paid 11 times more in debt service than it spent on basic health care -- 40 percent of its export earnings. Honduras owes $4 billion. 
 Washington suspended for two years their payments on debt owed to the United States, but this is not enough. The United States should join European nations such as France in forgiving the debts and offering some relief to El Salvador and Guatemala. Washington should also use its influence to get the I.M.F. and other lending institutions to do the same.
Relief must be conditioned on good use of the money. It must be closely monitored to insure that it goes to basic infrastructure, education, forestation, health and other programs that will give Nicaragua and Honduras the tools to emerge from poverty. Washington should also allow illegal aliens from Central America to stay in the United States. It has promised to stop deportations only until January.
Washington can help the affected Central American nations recover the trade and investment benefits they once gained from the 1984 Caribbean Basin Initiative. Their advantage was lost to Mexico after the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which also hurt the Caribbean. To help both regions develop a diversity of new jobs, President Clinton should ask Congress to give their exports the same entry to the United States that Mexican exports enjoy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NICARAGUA (95%); HONDURAS (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA; HONDURAS; CARIBBEAN AREA; UNITED STATES (98%); NICARAGUA (95%); HONDURAS (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; EDITORIALS; HURRICANE MITCH; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET WEATHER (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); DEPORTATION (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



231 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Judges Seek Aid in Effort To Remain Independent

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
Judges feel themselves under attack these days, and there is ample evidence that they are: threats of impeachment over unpopular rulings, negative campaigns that mischaracterize the records of state judges who need voter approval to stay in office and legislative struggles over budgets and salaries.
Constrained by tradition, ethical rules and a lack of political leverage from doing much to defend themselves, judges have looked for allies, and they are beginning to find powerful ones. The American Bar Association has started a project intended to increase public understanding and support for judicial independence, a concept that "recedes into the background like the wallpaper in your living room but at times of conflict and stress leaps into the foreground," as Dean Colin S. Diver of the University of Pennsylvania Law School told a group that met here the other day to begin the project. 
 Two Supreme Court Justices joined 120 other judges, leaders of the bar and legal scholars here for the first of three conferences to take place over the next five months. Thirty state court chief justices attended or sent other judges or representatives of their courts to this first meeting, co-sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
"If you believe in judicial independence, you believe in freedom," Justice Anthony M. Kennedy of the United States Supreme Court told the group. "The bar must support the judiciary in its cause when it is under attack," he said, adding: "Judges do not have political clout. They need the bar."
Though not everyone at the invitation-only conference agreed on the dimensions of the problem, there was widespread agreement with a definition offered by Justice Adolpho A. Birch Jr., a member and former Chief Justice of the Tennessee Supreme Court: "Judicial independence is the judge's right to do the right thing or, believing it to be the right thing, to do the wrong thing."
The stars of the gathering were undoubtedly Justice Kennedy and his Supreme Court colleague, Justice Stephen G. Breyer. Their decision to travel here both underscored and validated the concerns of the other judges, particularly those who "are only an election cycle, at most, away from unemployment," as Judge Wendell L. Griffen of the Arkansas Court of Appeals described the vulnerability felt by state judges who must face the voters either for election or for retention in office.
Most state judges are elected, and there was considerable discussion about the threats to the image of an independent judiciary posed by negative campaigns and by the judicial candidates' need to raise money.
One judge who described her own experience was Kate Ford Elliott of the Pennsylvania Superior Court, who lost a race for the Pennsylvania Supreme Court last year after her opponent ran an advertisement in the last four days of the campaign accusing her of having "let criminals loose on technicalities."
Judge Elliott remained on the Superior Court, an intermediate appellate court. "I don't decide Microsoft versus Netscape," she said at a panel discussion of judicial elections. "I decide whether Joe Smith gets to have his child for the weekend," and similar cases "very important for people's lives."
"We're allowed to do that because people trust us," she continued, asking how a judge "can ever maintain that covenant of trust" after enduring a reputation-damaging political campaign.
Justice Harold F. See of the Alabama Supreme Court held the group spellbound with a videotape of the attack advertisements that his opponent ran against him in a 1996 race. Over the image of a skunk nosing through the underbrush, the narration called Justice See "a slick Chicago lawyer" who never passed the Alabama bar exam. In fact, he had taught for 20 years at the University of Alabama Law School and was admitted to the Alabama bar without having to take the exam. Justice See spent $2.4 million and won the election.
Because of such experiences, state judges rarely express much sympathy for Federal judges, protected as they are by life tenure. Yet several scholars at the conference observed that life tenure, a very rare arrangement among the world's judicial systems, was itself a source of political vulnerability for judges who are easily portrayed as arrogant in their insularity and unaccountability.
Indeed, if there was one incident that galvanized the current concern over judicial independence, it was the bipartisan attack, early in the 1996 election year, on a Federal District Judge in New York, Harold Baer Jr. In a decision questioning the credibility of New York City police officers, Judge Baer had ruled that the police lacked an adequate basis to pull over and search a car in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan and that the 80 pounds of cocaine and heroin the officers found could not be used as evidence.
After Republicans, including the party's eventual Presidential nominee, Bob Dole, denounced Judge Baer, who was a recent Clinton appointee, President Clinton's spokesman suggested that the President might seek the judge's resignation. Within a few weeks, Judge Baer reconsidered the case and reversed his own ruling.
That episode, as well as subsequent calls by several Republicans in Congress for the impeachment of Federal judges on the basis of their rulings, led a number of organizations, including the American Judicature Society and the Century Foundation, formerly the Twentieth Century Fund, to organize projects on judicial independence. The Century Foundation's bipartisan group, Citizens for Independent Courts, plans to issue a report in June on several related issues, including how to define the line between legitimate criticism and intimidation of judges.
In brief remarks to the group here, Justice Breyer stressed his view that judicial independence exists not for the benefit of judges, but of the people. "Judicial independence is in part a state of mind," he said, "a matter of expectation, habit and belief among not just judges, lawyers and legislators, but millions of people."
But, he said, "I don't think judges can help" in their own cause because judges' views are easily dismissed as "institutional self-interest."
"It becomes up to others to do the explaining," Justice Breyer told the bar leaders and law professors, adding, "That's why you're here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justice Anthony M. Kennedy spoke to Robert A. Stein, left, and Jerome Shestack of the American Bar Association. At left, Justice Stephen G. Breyer before addressing the bar association. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BAR ASSN; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (74%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSN; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (74%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; JUDGES; LAW SCHOOLS LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JUDGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ETHICS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; KENNEDY, ANTHONY M (ASSOC JUSTICE); BREYER, STEPHEN G (JUSTICE) ANTHONY KENNEDY (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



232 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Approves Wider Use of Liver Drug

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY 

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration yesterday approved the expanded use of Rebetron, a treatment already on the market for hepatitis C, a viral infection of the liver that can lead to cirrhosis, liver cancer and liver failure.
Hepatitis C infects an estimated four million Americans and kills 8,000 to 10,000 a year. The disease, spread mainly by dirty needles and exposure to infected blood, is the leading reason for liver transplants. 
 Rebetron, made by the Schering-Plough Corporation, was approved in June only for patients who had relapsed after taking interferon drugs, the only other approved treatment for the disease. The expanded approval now means that Rebetron can also be given to patients who had not taken interferon.
The Rebetron treatment combines interferon injections with a second anti-viral drug, ribavirin, which is swallowed in capsules.
A six-month treatment costs $6,400 to $8,600. By the end of October, Rebetron sales had totaled $46 million, according to IMS Health, a firm that tracks the pharmaceutical industry.
The F.D.A. cautioned that Rebetron is not a cure and that it is not known whether the treatment can delay the progression of liver disease caused by the virus. It suppresses blood levels of the virus far better than interferon alone.
But researchers say that not all hepatitis C patients need Rebetron, which can have severe side effects including flulike symptoms, anemia, depression and suicidal behavior. It can also cause birth defects.
The expanded use was approved over the protests of patient advocates, who object to the way Rebetron is being sold. Interferon and ribavirin are sold together as a kit, a practice known as bundling. Patients cannot get ribavirin without purchasing the entire kit.
A Schering-Plough spokesman, Robert Consalvo, said Rebetron is sold in this way because ribavirin has been approved for use only in combination with Schering's brand of interferon.
But some patients say that their doctors would like to prescribe ribavirin with another brand of interferon. And they accuse Schering of bundling the products in order to maintain the high price of the drugs and compel patients to use its interferon.
In another hepatitis treatment development, Glaxo Wellcome and Biochem Pharma said yesterday that the F.D.A. had approved their drug, lamivudine, as the first oral therapy for the treatment of hepatitis B. In the United States, the drug will have a wholesale cost of $1,250 a year.
Lamivudine, also known as 3TC and marketed under the trade name Epivir, has previously been approved for the H.I.V. virus, for which it is the most commonly prescribed drug. Epivir for AIDS will generate an estimated $800 million in revenue this year. Hepatitis B affects many more people than AIDS, perhaps as many as 350 million worldwide.
Most of those patients are in Asian countries, where the cost of the drug may be prohibitive, so analysts say it is difficult to estimate the potential market. But there are an estimated one million hepatitis B patients in North America and about twice that many in Europe, where price is less of an issue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (65%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP MERCK & CO INC (92%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; SCHERING-PLOUGH CORP FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (65%); 

SUBJECT: HEPATITIS; REBETRON (DRUG); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERFERON; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS LIVER DISEASE (96%); HEPATITIS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); HEPATITIS C (91%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (90%); US FDA APPROVALS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); CANCER (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); HEPATITIS B (89%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); ANEMIA (76%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (73%); DRUG PRICES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (71%); SUICIDE (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GRADY, DENISE

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



233 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: New York City Nears Debt Limit, Report Warns

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
New York City will soon hit its borrowing limit unless the Giuliani administration finds faster and more economical ways of paying off debt, according to a new report by the City Comptroller's office.
The report warned that the city would have to scale back its capital construction program unless it started paying upfront for construction projects, using budget surpluses and other nonrecurring revenues. The city's capital construction plan calls for increasing spending by $3 billion in the coming fiscal year, but the city can borrow only another $2.4 billion before hitting its state-imposed limit, the report said. 
 "We must reduce borrowing," the City Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, said yesterday. "We have to take control of the situation now."
The report on debt, required each year under the City Charter, also said that the city could avoid the impending financial crisis by asking the State Legislature to increase its debt ceiling. That is the solution preferred by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican who has been pushing for such an increase for several months. Robert G. Harding, the Mayor's budget director, said the administration would push harder for it when the legislative session starts next month.
Mr. Harding said that Mr. Giuliani had unsuccessfully urged the Legislature to change the formula last year. Such a change would require an amendment to the State Constitution, which must be approved by two separately elected Legislatures and a statewide public referendum. So even if the Legislature approved the change next year, it would need two more approvals, over several years, before becoming law.
In the meantime, Mr. Harding said, the city would ask Albany to increase the amount it can borrow through a special finance authority created two years ago, when the city was on the verge of hitting its debt limit. The state allowed the city to borrow up to $7.5 billion beyond its debt limit for construction projects through that finance authority. But that money will be gone by 2000, Mr. Harding said. "It is certainly better to change the Constitution than to do it this way," he said. "But for now we have no other choice."
The impending borrowing crisis is due to a 19th century provision of the State Constitution that limits the city's debt under a formula tied to its revenue from property values, a reflection of a time when the city's revenue came mostly from such taxes. City officials argue that the formula no longer makes sense, since property taxes account for a relatively small portion of the city's revenue.
Some budget watchdogs said that the proposal to pay upfront for some capital projects was wise, because even though it was a drain on the budget in the short term, it would save a significant amount of money in the long term. But Mr. Harding said it would be foolish to take money away from a city budget that often has shortfalls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DEBT CEILING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); REFERENDUMS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



234 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: A PLEDGE TO AVOID BANKRUPTCY -- Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov insisted that Russia would not go bankrupt despite its serious problems repaying debts. In an interview with the Nezavisimaya Gazeta, Mr. Primakov also said he wanted to create a social market economy, which he called the only way to prevent the Russian economy from being run by "thieves." (Reuters, Agence France-Presse)
 
RUSSIA: MOTIVE IN CHECHEN BEHEADINGS -- Chechen kidnappers who beheaded four Western hostages feared capture and wanted to prevent their victims from serving as witnesses, Chechnya's Prosecutor General, Mansur Tagirov, told the Itar-Tass news agency. He said one suspected kidnapper was arrested Sunday, causing panic among the others. The victims, three Britons and a New Zealander, were working to restore phone services in Chechnya, which was devastated during the 1994-96 war with Russia. (AP) 

FRANCE: LE PEN AIDE OUSTED -- The leader of France's extreme-right National Front Party, Jean-Marie Le Pen, dismissed his longtime deputy, Bruno Megret, left, for openly challenging his leadership. Mr. Megret called for an extraordinary party congress next month after disagreeing on tactics and strategy with Mr. Le Pen, the party's founder. Craig R. Whitney (NYT)
 
LITHUANIA: BAN ON EX-COMMUNISTS -- The Parliament's Speaker, Vytautas Landsbergis, introduced a bill to ban former Communists from serving in high-level government positions. Mr. Landsbergis, a leader of the drive for Lithuania's independence from the Soviet Union, passed an earlier bill banning ex-K.G.B. members from many public and private jobs, but it was vetoed by President Valdas Adamkus. (AP)
 
GERMANY: DEMAND FOR SPY FILES -- Germany's intelligence chief, Ernst Uhrlau, is demanding that the United States return the East German spy files he says the Central Intelligence Agency took at the end of the cold war. Mr. Uhrlau called it unacceptable that files relevant for Germany were sitting in Washington, with a possible duplicate set in Moscow. Mr. Uhrlau said the return of the records was in Germany's interest. He said he was speaking out so "the files aren't abused by third parties, including for pressure," an apparent reference to attempts to blackmail former East German spies. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
MONGOLIA: PREMIER APPROVED -- Mongolia's Parliament approved a new Prime Minister, Janlaviin Narantsatsralt, the Mayor of the capital, Ulaan Baatar, ending a political crisis that had paralyzed the fledgling democracy for seven months. (AP)
 
CAMBODIA: A RELIANCE ON ABDUCTION -- Khmer Rouge fighters in northwestern Cambodia have no money or supplies and have taken to kidnapping to survive, the Government's local commanders said. They said Government forces in Cambodia's troubled northwest were stepping up security after the guerrillas kidnapped and held 45 farmers and 3 aid workers for ransom. (Reuters)
 
KAZAKHSTAN: DEAL FOR PIPELINE STUDY -- Kazakhstan signed an agreement with Mobil Corporation. Chevron Corporation and Royal Dutch/Shell Group to conduct a feasibility study on building parallel pipelines for shipping the country's oil and natural gas to Western markets. Kazakhstan, a former Soviet republic in central Asia, has reserves of 35 billion barrels of oil and 2.3 trillion cubic meters of natural gas. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
ALGERIA: 45 REPORTED SLAIN -- Armed terrorists killed 45 people in a predawn attack that was Algeria's bloodiest massacre in months, security officials said in a statement. They attributed the massacre in Tadjena, a mountain town about 125 miles west of the capital, Algiers, to a "terrorist band," language used to describe Muslim insurgents. More than 75,000 Algerians have died in seven years of violence. (AP)
 
LIBYA: PASSENGERS RIOT -- Libyan passengers rioted aboard a chartered Egyptian airliner flying from Sana in Yemen to Tunis and demanded that the plane fly to Libya in violation of United Nations sanctions. But the pilot tricked the hijackers and landed on the Tunisian island of Jerba. The United Nations flight ban was adopted in 1992 to force Libya to turn over two suspects wanted in the bombing of a Pan Am jetliner over Scotland in 1988. (AP)
 
IRAN: CONTRABAND SAFFRON -- Iran, the world's leading producer of saffron, is facing a growing problem with smugglers who are stealing more than half the nation's output of the rare spice and selling it on the black market in Europe. Known as "desert gold" in the Islamic republic, the sought-after spice can fetch up to $272 a pound on the black market. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
COMOROS: GENERALS WEIGH INTERVENTION -- A group of African generals flew to the Comoros to look into sending an intervention force to the embattled secessionist island of Anjouan. The head of the Organization of African Unity, Salim Ahmed Salim, said in Pretoria that such intervention might be necessary to avoid further deterioration on Anjouan, where fighting between rival militias erupted last weekend. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SUDAN: MULTIPLE PARTIES RETURN -- President Omar Hassan al-Bashir has signed a law to restore a multiparty system nine years after his military coup dismantled democracy. But opposition parties say they will not register under the law, which permits "political associations," seeing it as a ploy by the Government to cling to power. (Reuters)
 
GABON: INCUMBENT WINS AGAIN -- President Omar Bongo, Gabon's ruler for the last 31 years, has been re-elected President of the Central African nation for seven more years, with 66 percent of the vote. Mr. Bongo's financial resources, dominance of broadcast news organizations and widespread patronage system gave him an enormous advantage and his victory was expected. (AP)
 
ANGOLA: GOVERNMENT OFFENSIVE REPULSED -- The rebel group Unita said it has beaten back a Government air and ground offensive against its strongholds of Andulo and Bailundo. Unita's secretary general, Paulo Lukamba Gato, said that Government soldiers were retreating toward the strategic town of Cuito after suffering heavy casualties. (Reuters)
 
Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GERMANY (95%); CAMBODIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); MONGOLIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GERMANY (95%); CAMBODIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); MONGOLIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); VETO (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); EXTORTION (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); APPROVALS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); ARRESTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



235 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Better Business Bureau Says Nuclear Group Ran False Ads

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9

 BODY:
The Better Business Bureau told the nuclear industry today to change ads the bureau said falsely claimed that nuclear reactors make power without polluting the air and water or damaging the environment.
The finding, which the nuclear industry said it would take into account in planning its next campaign, contradicts the central argument the industry has used in the last few years to justify its existence. It also inserts the Better Business Bureau, a voluntary agency that mediates commercial disputes, into a new field: the electricity marketing battle in California and parts of New York and Pennsylvania, among other states, that offers consumers a choice among suppliers. 
 The challenge had been brought by a coalition of environmental groups and a small electric supplier that markets power from windmills.
The Better Business Bureau's National Advertising Division, which is based in New York, said in a decision announced today that the nuclear industry should stop calling itself "environmentally clean" and should stop saying it makes power "without polluting the environment." Andrea Levine, the director of the division, said such claims were "unsupportable."
The bureau agreed with environmentalists that nuclear fuel is made using electricity produced by coal plants; that reactors kill fish by sucking them in with cooling water and dumping scalding water back into lakes and rivers, and that nuclear waste poses a health threat.
"Consumers can reasonably interpret the claim to mean that electricity generated by nuclear power is produced without any negative impact on the environment," the decision read in part. "The record, however, does not support this interpretation of the claim."
The bureau's National Advertising Division, which is known as the N.A.D., was formed 25 years ago by the ad industry to head off the threat of Government regulation and has no punitive or enforcement powers. It issues about 100 decisions a year, but the vast majority are for disparagement of a product. This is its first concerning the energy field.
While the decision was a new experience for the nuclear industry, Ms. Levine said it was a harbinger of the energy sector's transition to deregulated electricity, in which consumers will choose suppliers much as they pick a long-distance phone company.
"For the first time," Ms. Levine said of utility companies, "they have to deal with what everybody else who sells stuff to the public has had to."
The ads, which also claimed benefits for food irradiation and medical uses of radioactive materials, were produced by Smith & Harroff Inc., an advertising and public relations company in Arlington, Va., that represents many big utilities and trade associations.
No ads from the $2 million campaign are now being used. But the campaign ran print ads for two weeks in April, three weeks in June and two weeks in November, in The New York Times, The Washington Post and a variety of magazines, including Barron's, National Review, The New Republic and The Atlantic, according to Scott Peterson of the Nuclear Energy Institute, the trade association that placed them. In addition, a radio spot ran on a Washington radio station.
Mr. Peterson said that the ads were not intended to sell electricity. "We geared this advertising campaign toward policy makers and opinion leaders, who are now considering not only energy issues but environmental issues as they go hand and hand," he said.
"We're not Enron, we're not out there looking for market share," he said, referring to the Houston company that sells natural gas and electricity. "This organization is solely an organization that works on policy issues. We have no consumer issues at all."
Still, the bureau's decision read in part, "Simple economics dictates that any energy providers who want to be successful in this deregulated environment must make every attempt to influence the new direct-to-consumer market as it emerges."
At the Natural Resources Defense Council, which led the groups bringing the complaint, Ralph Cavanagh, an electricity expert, said, "If this kind of thing was O.K., it would effectively mean there were no rules."
Electricity is a "low-margin, uninteresting commodity," he said. "Environmental characteristics is the single feature that's going to matter most in marketing."
The N.A.D. said that the industry had agreed to modify its claims. But a spokesman for the nuclear trade group said it had not explicitly promised to change the campaign and referred to the group's statement at the end of the decision -- which was that it had "benefited from the insight" the review had provided, and that "we intend to take N.A.D.'s concerns regarding potential misconceptions that our advertising might create into consideration in future advertising campaigns."
Ms. Levine said that such statements were typical for advertisers that lost rulings, and that the industry's failure to appeal was a sign that it accepted the decision.
At Public Citizen, a consumer group that had also sought a ruling, a spokesman said that the group had already drafted a complaint to file with the Federal Trade Commission if the offending ads ran again.
 Nuclear reactors are far cleaner than the major source of electricity in this country, plants that burn coal, but the industry's trade group has never made the comparison. One key reason is that almost all the group's members also own coal plants.
The trade group argued that the industry was being held to an unreasonable standard if pollution in the entire "life cycle" of nuclear power, including fuel preparation, was included. And it noted that no form of energy was completely harmless; windmills in Alameda County, Calif., killed more than 1,000 birds between 1992 and 1997, it said.
The points the ads made have been used by the nuclear industry for years, first to promote reactor construction and, more recently, to keep operating the surviving plants, of which there are more than 100.
In 1986, two TV networks pulled an ad placed by a predecessor agency of the trade group, the U.S. Committee for Energy Awareness. That ad argued that reactors reduced oil imports by using native fuel. An antinuclear group, the Safe Energy Communication Council, complained then that half the uranium was imported and that utilities did not use much imported oil anyway. The council was also a complainant in this case. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS; PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; SMITH & HARROFF INC WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS; PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; SMITH & HARROFF INC PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK STATE; PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ADVERTISING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WATER POLLUTION; AIR POLLUTION; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; ENVIRONMENT MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (92%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (75%); LIGHT POLLUTION (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); LAKES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (70%); WIND POWER PLANTS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%); FOOD IRRADIATION (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L ANDREA LEVINE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



236 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Two Moves Indicate Asian Crises May Be Easing

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9

 BODY:
In two signs that the global economic crisis is easing, South Korea said today that it was immediately paying back nearly $3 billion in emergency loans that kept it afloat last year, and China successfully raised $1 billion from foreign investors.
The South Korean move was a sign that the country, still deep in recession, now felt confident enough to draw down its reserves to repay the International Monetary Fund. 
 The Chinese move to raise money on Wall Street -- with a bond offering that was in such demand that the country raised twice as much money as had been expected -- made it the first emerging-market economy in Asia to issue international bonds since the Russian default in August.
Neither event by itself is evidence that the crises are over. But both are indicators that investors around the world take into account when deciding when a panic is over, whether, in short, it is safe to go back in the water.
The I.M.F., which has been desperate to declare a restoration of confidence in the markets, immediately seized on the South Korean repayment as a sign that the country had hit bottom. The managing director of the fund, Michel Camdessus, called the repayment an "important watershed in the process of Korea's emergence from last year's foreign-exchange crisis."
The bailout of South Korea, which the fund led, totaled $58 billion. The country drew on just part of that to meet its obligations this year.
China's move, raising money that a country with $144 billion in foreign reserves really does not need, was a sign that investors still hungered to invest there, despite continuing risks elsewhere in Asia. When the offering was priced today China had to pay investors an interest rate only 2.8 percent higher than the United States Treasury pays on 10-year Treasury securities. The 10-year note was set to yield 7.346 percent.
"At this moment, if China can indicate that our economy has the resilience to withstand external shocks we can also help boost confidence with the region," Deputy Finance Minister Jin Liqun said in a telephone interview today from the New York headquarters of Goldman, Sachs & Company, the lead underwriter of the offering along with Credit Suisse First Boston.
To persuade investors to return to Asia, Mr. Jin made extensive presentations on Tuesday in New York about Chinese prospects, arguing that China had weathered the worst of the storm.
China is an exception. It has fixed the exchange rate of its yuan against the dollar, and Mr. Jin repeatedly said today that "we certainly are committed to maintaining the value of our currency," though did not specify for how long.
The solidity of the implicit guarantee is important to investors, who saw Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia end similar commitments last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TRENDS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CURRENCIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E JIN LIQUN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



237 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: American Steel At the Barricades;
With Prices Low, Companies and Labor Unite in a Campaign to Limit Imports

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa.

 BODY:
This town was once the steel capital of the East, its namesake company turning out girders for the Golden Gate Bridge, Rockefeller Center and the Supreme Court building. But today Bethlehem is best known as a charming tourist spot of historic churches and ubiquitous Christmas decorations.
The main evidence most visitors see of Bethlehem Steel's existence is the miniature wooden replicas of the old steel mill and of the company's former headquarters that are sold in gift shops around town. The shuttered mill may turn into a retail-and-restaurant complex, and the only vestige of steel is the office tower where Curtis Barnette, the company's chief executive, is leading a campaign to save the domestic steel industry -- and, he says, America. 
 Not wanting to see the steel industry itself turned into a miniature, Mr. Barnette and industry leaders are fighting back. With appearances before Congress, arm-twisting of the Administration, a sophisticated publicity campaign and a barrage of anti-dumping lawsuits, he heads the Stand Up for Steel coalition. This union-industry effort is aimed at protecting the domestic industry from the low prices and cutthroat competition brought on by the global financial crisis and a flood of imports from Asia, Latin America and Russia.
But in taking up this fight, Mr. Barnette and the industry are coming up against some harsh realities: that many buyers of domestic steel, like the auto industry, welcome falling prices and that a main road to recovery for struggling countries is to export more goods to the United States. As a result, the industry's cry for relief may have a lot less impact than similar pleas have over the years.
By every measure, the domestic industry is suffering. There is no argument about that. Market prices for its mainstay product, hot-rolled steel, have fallen by $50 a ton, or 18 percent, this year to reach a new low of $200 a ton this month. Lower-priced imports are gobbling up total market share, rising from 23 percent to an all-time high of 35 percent. And with mills nationwide cutting production runs, spot layoffs have begun.
"The American consumer would not benefit from the extinction of the American steel industry," Mr. Barnette, widely known as Hank, said in an interview in his office here. "I'm unaware of any U.S. customers saying that they wish to purchase illegally traded and dumped steel. We shouldn't say, 'Let's help Russia, let's sacrifice the steel industry.' Japan should solve its own problems and not export them to the U.S."
That is the message the industry has been sending for decades and the one still being sent, over and over, by Mr. Barnette, a lawyer by training and, since 1992, chief executive of the nation's second-largest steel company, which traces its roots to 1905. The company, whose employment has fallen from a peak of 130,000 in the 1960's to 16,400 today, makes most of its steel in Indiana and Maryland.
Bethlehem Steel and the No. 1 producer USX, along with 10 other steel companies and the United Steelworkers of America, have backed up Mr. Barnette's tough talk with a series of trade cases, filed in September, accusing Japan, Brazil and Russia of dumping their steel here -- selling it below cost -- and asking that import duties be imposed. These cases, in which the industry seeks new tariffs by February, are speeding through the Commerce Department and will then go to the International Trade Commission, an independent Government agency.
The industry and the union have also been flexing their muscle in Washington, especially at a White House grateful for the union's mobilization of Democratic voters in the November elections. An all-star line-up -- President Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other Cabinet officials -- met with Mr. Barnette and his group in November, and since then President Clinton has lectured the Japanese on this issue and promised faster action in enforcing trade laws.
Moreover, a nonbinding resolution calling for a one-year ban on steel imports passed the House in October with a resounding 340 votes. The industry was also able to get a resolution put into the huge spending bill enacted in the last days of the 105th Congress requiring the Administration to come up with a plan by Jan. 5 to fight steel imports. Last month, after another visit by Mr. Barnette to Congress, a number of senators who belong to the Senate Steel Caucus called on the Administration to take swift action to curb imports.
"We're fighting for the heartland of America," said George Becker, president of the United Steelworkers of America, which is sharing the cost of the $3 million Stand Up for Steel campaign. "All the blood is gone from our industry; we can't bleed anymore. We don't have enough steelworker jobs to give away to keep the economies of Japan, Russia and Brazil going. I feel the President's top priority is to stand up for America and to stand up for workers."
To insure that steelworkers' jobs are saved, the industry and the union have been keeping the Washington doors open with generous campaign contributions and get-out-the-vote efforts in steel towns. In the 1997-98 election cycle, the union and industry donated $1.2 million to candidates and parties, mostly from the union. The bulk of it, $985,802, went to Democratic candidates and committees. Moreover, Democrats do not want to enter the 2000 Presidential election with several thousand unemployed steelworkers across the country.
Yet as the Stand Up for Steel campaign continues, the industry faces some tough crosscurrents. Moves to limit the flow of low-cost imports risk undercutting some of the nations hardest hit by the global financial crisis, ones that may have to rely on exports to help them bounce back. And while falling prices hurt steel companies, they help auto makers, construction companies and other manufacturers, which are under pressure to make their goods more competitive at home and abroad.
Moreover, some say the industry must, in part, bear the blame for its predicament. Nearly a dozen steel producers, over customer objections, pushed through price increases in the spring, just as weakness in the yen and other currencies began eroding the price of imported steel. Moreover, even as the strikes at the General Motors Corporation, reduced the demand for steel, domestic steel companies did not cut back on production, creating a market glut when the seven-week strike ended in July.
"The steel industry deserves a Nobel Prize in lack-of-understanding-in-economics for raising prices when the dollar was appreciating and the world economy was slowing," said John C. Tumazos, an analyst with Sanford Bernstein & Company. "The steel companies raised prices when market economics did not support it. A lot of these steel senior officers should hand in their resignations."
Two of the industry's biggest customers, G.M. and Caterpillar Inc., have issued statements opposing the anti-dumping suits. "We strongly object to suggestions that steel trade should be subject to 'special' protections," Caterpillar said. "The quotas used to protect the steel industry in each of the last four decades hurt American industries that use steel and rewarded foreign steel traders with a guaranteed share of a restricted U.S. market."
General Motors, in a statement, said: "The dumping actions filed against Japan, Brazil and Russia will have a negative effect on prices U.S. consumers pay for finished products with high steel content."
It added: "Worldwide economic upheaval and fluctuating currencies are the real issues. Indeed, the filing of these complaints could make the situation worse."
Robert W. Crandall, an antitrust expert at the Brookings Institution, said: "In every trade complaint there are some who benefit, and that is all of us who use consumer products made from steel. In fact, most of the pitch made to protect steelworkers' jobs and companies are from companies who lost their competitiveness a long time ago. It's an argument they've made for 25 years. They continue to blame their predicament on imports. There's no doubt the current low prices of imports exacerbate their problems. But the roots of them have nothing to do with imports."
Mr. Barnette counters that his industry has invested $50 billion in modernization and cut 300,000 workers from payrolls the last decade to better match supply and demand. While the industry pushed through a price increase last spring, it did so not knowing what the future held. And the industry kept up production during the G.M. strikes not knowing that it would last so long. Besides, each domestic producer wanted to have steel products ready for when the strike ended.
And while Mr. Barnette acknowledges that falling currencies and collapsing economies have a lot to do with the low prices of steel imports, the drop in prices, he said, is so severe that it goes beyond those factors and into dumping.
"We're trying to remind the public of the very significant competitiveness of our industry," Mr. Barnette said. "We're sometimes viewed as protectionist and rust belt in our thinking when we are a high-tech, low-cost, world-class industry. We believe in open markets. But when the rules are breached, they should be enforced, and that is what is happening."
Many observers, even those critical of some industry decisions, acknowledge that the current situation is particularly difficult. The danger, though, is that the building of protectionist walls could make it hard for troubled countries to raise money through exports, slowing a global recovery. And that, in turn, would make the steel industry's problems drag on.
"Steel, to a degree, has a legitimate beef," said Kimberly Elliott, a research fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "But if other countries retaliate or if closing the market for steel from these crisis countries causes them to further spiral downward, that will affect all U.S. export industries. The broad macro effects of that can be staggering."
Scott Morrison, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, says that sadly, the domestic steel industry may be a sitting duck in the churning world economic waters. "Even if the industry wins some concessions in their trade suits, will it save the industry? My thought is no," he said. "It's very difficult in this environment of a global downturn to block out a couple of countries and expect to get better prices. As long as there is global oversupply, our prices won't be able to diverge much from global prices. Until the global economy turns up, it will be difficult to see the steel industry in much better straits than now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtis Barnette, chief executive of Bethlehem Steel, sees the American steel industry fighting for its life. He recently visited the company's plant in Sparrows Point, Md. (Ann Grillo for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A Battered Industry"
The U.S. steel industry has been hit hard by low prices and cutthroat competition brought on by the global financial crisis and a flood of imports. Graph tracks the price of steel (per ton, domestic, hot rolled) and finished steel imports as a percentage of supply, from 1990 through September 1998. (Source: Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP; STAND UP FOR STEEL (GROUP) BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP; STAND UP FOR STEEL (GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION IRON & STEEL MILLS (92%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; BARNETTE, CURTIS CURTIS H BARNETTE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



238 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Reserve Reports Growth Eased in November
Economic growth slowed in many parts of the country in November, and inflation remained absent as wage pressures lessened, the Federal Reserve said.
Export industries shrank, farms were under stress and retail sales were weaker than expected, the Fed said in its latest economic assessment, known as the beige book. The latest reading could point to a future cut in interest rates. The Fed has reduced borrowing costs three times since the end of September, most recently on Nov. 17. Page C3. 

The overall United States trade deficit surged to $61.3 billion in July through September, a fourth consecutive quarterly record. C6.
 
F.D.A. Approves Hepatitis Drugs
The Food and Drug Administration approved the expanded use of Schering-Plough's Rebetron, a treatment for hepatitis C, and approved a drug developed by Glaxo Wellcome and Biochem Pharma as the first oral therapy for hepatitis B. C2.
 
T.W.A. Splits Order for Planes
Trans World Airlines split an estimated $3.9 billion order for short-range jets between Boeing and Airbus Industrie, stretching the resources of a carrier that has not made an annual profit since 1988. The carrier is trying to upgrade one of the industry's oldest fleets, betting it can lower costs and attract higher-paying business travelers. C7.
 
Nasdaq Sets Record, but Dow Falls
Stocks were mixed as news that the nation's economy was still growing last month offset fresh worries about disappointing corporate earnings. The Nasdaq composite index rose 15.67 points, to a record 2,050.42. But the Dow Jones industrial average fell 18.79 points, to 9,009.19. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.11 points, to 1,183.49. C10.
 
The difference between long-term and short-term Treasury yields, a spread known as the yield curve, has been narrowing. The change is viewed by some forecasters as a signal that the economy may be heading for a significant slowdown. Market Place. C9.
 
Critical Issue in Microsoft Trial
Microsoft's antitrust trial focused on an esoteric issue crucial to the outcome: what defines a computer operating system. Microsoft's lawyers sought to show that it has become increasingly difficult to separate the operating system -- which controls a computer's basic operations -- from other software. C3.
 
Arab States to Extend Oil Cuts
Leaders of Arab states that provide one-fifth of the world's oil decided to extend cuts in production that were scheduled to expire at the end of June and keep them in effect until the end of 1999. C10.
 
Chemical Merger Is Called Off
A month after they announced they would join forces, Ciba Specialty Chemicals and Clariant, the two Swiss chemical companies, said their merger talks had collapsed. C6.
 
Prince Considered Hedge Fund Bid
Prince Walid bin Talal, the Saudi billionaire businessman known for strategic investments in troubled companies, had considered buying the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management two months ago but never made an offer. The prince was approached by Goldman, Sachs about possible interest soon after it and 13 other Wall Street banks and brokerage houses injected $3.6 billion to save the fund from bankruptcy. C9.
 
Seagram to Close Deal for Polygram
In a change that will affect the music business and market for years to come, Seagram is expected to close its deal today to buy Polygram Records. Over the next month, as many as 3,000 employees are expected to lose their jobs, important record labels will disappear and executives at the labels estimate that anywhere from dozens to 200 bands will be released from their labels. The Pop Life. E1.
 
Seagram said that a series of poor box-office showings would cause its Universal Studios division to lose $65 million. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 9,009.19, down 18.79
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.98%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 117.82 yen, down 1.49

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); BFA (LSE) (51%); BASF (BIT) (51%); BAS (FRA) (51%); CLN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (51%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (51%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (51%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (83%); BOEING CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); BASF SE (51%); CLARIANT AG (50%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); HEPATITIS (90%); HEPATITIS C (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); MERGERS (87%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (87%); CHEMICALS MFG (86%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); YIELD CURVE (76%); US FDA APPROVALS (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (75%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); HEPATITIS B (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (62%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (60%); RETAIL SALES (57%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



239 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Meets 48 in Congress On Future of Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9

 BODY:
President Clinton met with 48 members of Congress from both parties today to discuss how to shore up Social Security, and participants said they had come away optimistic, with some idea about how to edge toward full negotiations.
Mr. Clinton, on the second and final day of a conference he called on Social Security's future, reiterated his belief that the higher investment returns historically available on Wall Street should be part of the solution to the system's long-term financing problems, aides said. But he remained silent over the most contentious element of the debate: whether the investing should be done by the Government or through accounts established by individual workers. 
 In the hourlong meeting, the first at which the President has discussed Social Security in detail with key members of Congress from both parties, the participants reviewed a broad array of options for assuring that the system can weather the retirement of the baby-boom generation.
In addition to seeking higher investment returns, the options include raising the retirement age, increasing the level of wages subjected to the Social Security payroll tax, reducing cost-of-living increases paid to beneficiaries or some other combination of benefit cuts and tax increases.
The participants also discussed how to move from a general discussion to the nuts and bolts of drafting a bill that could win bipartisan support. Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, said that eventually a small group of Congressional leaders and Administration officials would have to negotiate the details, participants said.
But there was also general agreement that for now both parties should try to get as many members of Congress as possible to study the details of the various plans, and the trade-offs they would require. Gene Sperling, the White House economic policy adviser, said Administration officials would work with Congressional aides to assemble briefing materials that could be distributed to all members of Congress and that would make clear how each proposal would affect beneficiaries.
"It was a productive discussion that creates some momentum for us to move ahead," said Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona.
Hanging over the session, though, was the fear that progress on Social Security would be derailed if the House voted to impeach Mr. Clinton and the Senate spent the first several months of next year preparing for and conducting a trial. Asked about impeachment's effect on the likelihood of a Social Security deal, Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said that "it reduces it significantly."
But Mr. Gregg said that the discussion today was "constructive and congenial" and that there was "no heel-digging, and a desire to discuss the subject openly and positively."
Although there were no negotiations or formal proposals, Administration officials and members of Congress from both parties said they had come away convinced that they could attack the issue with a minimum of the rancor and the political opportunism that have long prevented Congress from making the painful choices inherent in strengthening Social Security.
Mr. Sperling said the exchanges at the meeting showed that there could be "discussion and disagreements without some of the harshness and politics that have too often characterized the Social Security debate in the past."
Mr. Clinton said at a forum on Social Security last summer that if there was a way to take advantage of the returns offered by the stock and bond markets without putting undue risk on beneficiaries, "we ought to go for it." He repeated that message today, leaving some participants at the meeting hopeful that a compromise could be worked out between those who advocate individual investment accounts and those who want the Government to do the investing.
Liberal Democrats in the House favor collective Government investment. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, said he could also support voluntary individual accounts that would be added on top of the current guaranteed benefit program. But he said he would have "grave concerns" about individual accounts paid for out of the payroll taxes that now go to pay current retirees.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF NEW MEXICO (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF NEW MEXICO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMPEACHMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (74%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); COST OF LIVING (72%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JUDD GREGG (59%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



240 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
A flatter yield curve indicates investors may be expecting a significant slowing of the economy.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
WITH the yield on the 30-year bond below 5 percent again, investors seem to be signaling that they are even happier about the outlook for inflation than they were. But, at the same time, they may be worried anew that the Federal Reserve has not done enough to protect the American economy from being tripped up by the global financial crisis.
Commodity prices have begun to tumble again, pulling the major commodity indexes to 20-year lows yesterday. Coupled with slowing global growth, investors have every reason to expect inflation, which is under 2 percent at the consumer level, to fall further. This means that the 30-year bond's most recent move below 5 percent could be longer lasting than the plunge in September. That drop resulted when investors sought a safe haven during the worst of this year's stock market selloff. 
 But while inflation expectations are improving, the performance of short-term rates, which have been rising recently, indicate that some investors now think that the Fed is not likely to make another cut in its interest rate target for some time. Put another way, investors are expecting the economy to slow down significantly from its nearly 4 percent pace. But they are not worried that they face the kind of drop -- or even the recession -- that some had predicted in August and September.
These tea leaf readings come from what is called the yield curve, which is the difference between the yields offered on the range of Treasury securities from the three-month bill to the 30-year bond.
Changes in these spreads have been good, but not infallible, predictors of the future performance of the economy and the path of interest rates. When short-term interest rates rise above the yields on the 30-year bond, an economic slowdown is considered likely because the higher short rates will curb lending and, therefore, economic growth. That is called an inverted yield curve.
The stage just before that is a flat yield curve, when the spreads narrow toward zero. That is the direction the curve has been moving since November. "Historically, a flatter yield curve is tied to a market view of a slowdown," said Tim Wilhide, a fixed-income portfolio manager at the Hartford Investment Management Company.
Yesterday, the yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 4.98 percent, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 4/32 , to 1045/32 . At the same time the yield on the two-year note slipped to 4.41 percent. The spread between the two was 57 basis points, or hundredths of a percent, about half of what it was just two months ago.
Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist at Hoenig & Company in Ryebrook, N.Y., said that the bond market has gone through a wild swing of expectations since this summer.
At the end of July and the beginning of August, just after the American stock market began its decline and the global financial crisis was worsening, the yield curve was even flatter than it is now, with the difference between the yield on the two-year note and the 30-year bond around 20 basis points. Mr. Barbera said this indicated that many investors thought that the American economy was headed to a sharp slowdown without a Fed interest rate cut. When the Fed rate cuts began, short-term rates fell and the spread widened sharply as the yield curve steepened. By the end of October the spread between the two-year note and the 30-year note was up to 110 basis points.
Now, Mr. Hoenig said, the yield curve has begun to flatten again as short-term rates rose after the Fed indicated that its November rate cut would be the last for some time. "We are not as worried, but we are worried again," he said, about a slowdown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HOENIG & CO INC (60%); HOENIG & CO LTD (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES YIELD CURVE (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CLARE SHORT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



241 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Optimism About Economy Tempers Jitters on Profits

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed yesterday as news that the nation's economy was still growing last month offset fresh worries about disappointing corporate earnings.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 15.67 points, to a record 2,050.42. But the Dow Jones industrial average fell 18.79, to 9,009.19, after bouncing back from a loss of nearly 60 points. It was dragged down by Merck, which fell 6 3/4, to 151 15/16, after forecasting that 1999 earnings would be $4.85 to $4.95 a share, short of analysts' estimates of $4.97 a share.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.11, to 1,183.49, and declining issues led advances by 1,550 to 1,444 on volume of 700.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The overall market rallied after the Federal Reserve said in its beige book summary of economic conditions that the nation's economic expansion continued in November, even though manufacturing industries were hurt by weak exports.
Warnings about earnings hurt some sectors.
J. P. Morgan fell 2 3/8, to 104 3/16, after the nation's fourth-largest bank said it would take a $100 million charge in the fourth quarter and that it expected earnings to be lower than in the third quarter.
Procter & Gamble lost 2 5/8, to 84 1/8, after analysts forecast its revenues would fall short of Wall Street expectations. Coca-Cola fell 1 1/2, to 67 1/8, after Merrill Lynch expressed concern about sales growth.
"We're getting into the time in which people are focusing on 1999 earnings expectations," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company.
Oil stocks were a bright spot. Texaco added 2 3/8, to 57 5/8, and Phillips Petroleum was up 11/16, to 41 9/16.
Among technology issues, Compaq Computer added 1/4, to 41 11/16, and Dell Computer gained 1 1/2, to 68 1/8. Xoom.com, the latest Internet company to go public, soared 20 7/16, to 34 7/16, in its initial public offering.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
China Doubles Bond Issue
By Dow Jones
Despite some market skepticism, China was able to double the size of a global bond issue yesterday with a tighter-than-expected spread.
The 10-year, dollar-denominated issue, known as a Yankee bond, increased in size to $1 billion from $500 million and was priced to yield a spread of 280 basis points over United States Treasuries, 20 basis points tighter than expected.
Even with the increase in size, the deal was oversubscribed by more than 60 percent, with an estimated $1.7 billion in orders.
In the United States Treasuries market, bond prices rose, pushing yields to the lowest level in almost two months after the Bridge Commodity Research Bureau Index fell to a 21-year low, signaling that inflation probably will not accelerate soon.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 5/32, to 104 5/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.98 percent, the lowest since Oct. 16.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (81%); KO (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); XOOM (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (65%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); XOOM CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND ISSUES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



242 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 10, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CORPORATE EXPRESS TO CLOSE 100 SITES AND CUT 1,700 JOBS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Corporate Express Inc. said yesterday that it would close or consolidate more than 100 sites and cut 1,700 jobs, or 6 percent of its work force, to trim costs amid a slump in demand for its office products and supplies. The company said it would take a pretax charge in the range of $65 million to $75 million, primarily for severance packages and lease cancellations. The company, which is based in Broomfield, Colo., said it was being hurt by a lag in demand from financial services and energy-related companies in the Eastern United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CXP (AMS) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS423840 INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATE EXPRESS INC CORPORATE EXPRESS NV (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORPORATE EXPRESS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); COLORADO, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (90%); CLOSINGS (88%); SEVERANCE PAY (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1998



243 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 35; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW;
A Fashion Statement Draped in Cubism

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
Some exhibitions have hard acts to follow. "Cubism and Fashion," at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute, is saddled with at least two. One is last year's big winter show at the institute, an over-the-top survey of Gianni Versace. This exercise in elegant kitsch was exhilarating fun, but it had roughly the same relationship to serious design that the motorcycles in the Guggenheim's dazzling summer show had to real art.
With "Cubism and Fashion," Richard Martin, the curator of the institute, has wisely taken a different tack, reinstating both historical perspective and the wide-angle view. His new show traces the influence of modern art's most earthshaking movement on the work of several generations of 20th-century designers, rather than on a single contemporary career. It's a real palate cleanser, so pure and restrained as to seem almost penitential, as if to compensate for last year's excesses. 
 Which brings us to the second act. This exhibition may also feel wan because it is based on an idea that is either not fully developed or not inherently rich enough to begin with. The two possibilities can nag at the viewer's mind.
The recent standard for exhibitions linking fashion and 20th-century art is "Fashion and Surrealism, " which Mr. Martin organized in 1987 at the Fashion Institute of Technology (where he worked as a curator from 1980 to 1993). Ambitious and exhaustively detailed, this show represented a near-perfect fit that Cubism, with its emphasis on abstract form and structure, might never match, even under ideal conditions.
When you think about it, there's little about Surrealism that doesn't dovetail with fashion, from its focus on the female form and physical beauty to its extensive uses of photography and altered or displaced objects. And there are frequent crossovers: Man Ray's photographs, Dali's fabric designs, Bellmer's dolls and Duchamp's store window, for example, all of which Mr. Martin included or referred to in his Surrealist show. (In the Cubism exhibition, he includes reproductions of famous modern paintings -- Picasso's "Demoiselles d'Avignon," Duchamp's "Nude Descending a Staircase" -- color-coordinated with the clothes.) In addition, "Fashion and Surrealism" unfolded over 8,000 square feet at the F.I.T., nearly twice the amount of gallery space at the Costume Institute.
This suggests a third act, one that can't be followed because it isn't over. It centers on the question: what does the Met want from the Costume Institute? Its commitment doesn't seem to be as strong as it used to be, and this can limit curatorial creativity. After the reign of Diana Vreeland, whose sprawling exhibitions put the institute on the map in the 1970's and 80's, the museum severely reduced and relocated its galleries, shrinking space from 14,000 square feet to 5,000. In addition, its exhibitions are limited almost exclusively to items in the Met's permanent collection. (Everything in "Cubism and Fashion" is owned by the Met except two 1998 dresses lent by Geoffrey Beene.) While Mr. Martin has done some outstanding shows at the Met, few have matched the breadth or depth of his F.I.T. efforts. Thus, the nagging thoughts. It is hard to know exactly what is being stretched to the limit: the idea or the Costume Institute's collection. Or what makes the show feel meager: again, the idea or the institute's galleries. But that shouldn't stop you from looking and learning what you can.
Mr. Martin's thesis is that Cubism's radical reorientation of painting's pictorial conventions -- its flattening of space, its emphasis on structure and its preference for indeterminate forms, layered transparencies and multiple viewpoints -- played an important role in the modernization of dress that began around the turn of the century.
His approach is largely formal and highly focused. He acknowledges other influences only occasionally: mentioned, for example, are Japanese kimonos, whose simplified forms were extremely influential in those years, as demonstrated by "Japonism in Fashion: Japan Dresses the West," a related exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. And he doesn't touch on the increasing liberation of women during the same period, which surely had repercussions.
Still, the clothes speak for themselves, at least in the first gallery. Here their dramatic changes in bulk and structure signal the profound rise in the physical and mental freedom of women that occurred between the late 1890's and the end of World War I.
Mr. Martin makes the point with three opulently upholstered ball gowns from the turn of the century, elegant armor that camouflaged, extended and encased the wearer's body. He then turns to the designs of Callot Soeurs, who retained richly embroidered fabrics, but reduced the volume of the dress to a simple cylinder that mirrored the body far more accurately. Even more reduced is an evening dress from around 1920 by Paul Poiret. It forsakes even the cylinder for the flat plane of fabric, wrapping and draping the figure in what are essentially large squares of red silk deeply bordered in navy blue.
Thus, in two decades, the female silhouette comes into view. In one of the show's best wall texts, Mr. Martin describes late 19th-century dresses as inherently sculptural, stand-alone garments that looked very much the same on the body or hanging in the closet. In contrast, modern clothes tended to be flat and limp, their structural logic incomprehensible until someone put them on.
For the first half of the exhibition, Mr. Martin follows the different Cubist innovations he has defined from garment to garment, through examples profound and superficial. Jacques Doucet is represented by a day suit whose jacket is little more than an asymmetrical plane folded around the body. A dress-and-coat ensemble by the designer Nemser features a fairly silly dress printed in a routine Cubist-Art Deco cityscape pattern (its skirt has round-topped panels of pleats reminiscent of the Chrysler Building). Non-Cubist signs of modernity enter the discussion: the abstracted plant forms in white applique on a blue silk dress by Mariska Karasz is seen as reflecting the influence of Matisse and modern artists' attention to peasant designs.
The show's heart is a cluster of nine dresses by Madeleine Vionnet, who is similarly central to Brooklyn's "Japonism" show. Undoubtedly the result of synthesized influences, Vionnet's breathtaking economies of dress still look like modernism incarnate. Transparent, planar, structurally declarative, they reduced the garment to its scaffolding and reconstituted it so that every seam and stitch figured in the whole, and the body's scaffolding was revealed as well.
Fabric played a new role, as Vionnet was the first designer to exploit the bias cut. It enabled her to reorient seams in sweeping diagonal lines and fanning curves, and created an effortless flow and body-skimming effect.
Nothing is added; it's all in the fabric. When Vionnet wanted to complicate things, she might make a strap look like a bit of scarf casually draped over a shoulder. Her specialties included groups of tiny pin-tucks that measured a skirt or dress in fine parallel lines. In a maroon silk chemise dress from 1926-27, ranks of pin-tucks descend diagonally from each shoulder to a pin-tucked skirt. Where they meet, at the garment's dropped waist, they create a delicate gridded square that magnifies the fabric's weave, and its bias tilt.
After Vionnet, this exhibition comes to life only intermittently, usually when her inventions are evoked, as in the deconstructed garments of the Japanese designers Rei Kawakubo and Issey Miyake. Its final third, devoted to postwar and recent fashion, includes a startlingly plain white-and-navy evening gown by Jo Copeland, and a dress and a suit by Christian Francis Roth, whose bold geometric fabrics glibly quote earlier designers glibly quoting Cubism.
A glittery bodysuit ensemble by Versace, luxuriously beaded with layered motifs, is suitably collagelike. And a suit by Charles James, once owned by the painter Lee Krasner, reiterates some of Vionnet's inventive use of seams, but in stiff, heavy fabric that takes one back to the upholstered evening gowns at the show's start.
This section also includes ball gowns by Yves Saint Laurent, one with a noticeable bustle, the other with the low, square neckline, fitted bodice and full contrasting overskirt of an 18th-century French gown. And the bright geometries of a Perry Ellis sweater, said to be inspired by the work of Sonia Delaunay, only makes one wonder why Delaunay's designs are not included. The answer, one assumes, is that the Met doesn't own any. It would have been interesting to see what this show would look like with more space and greater freedom of choice.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A silk crepe dress (1926-27) by Madeleine Vionnet from "Cubism and Fashion," and a detail of the fabric. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E35); A coat in geometric patterns from "Cubism and Fashion" at the Met. (Karin Willis/Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); COSTUME INSTITUTE GIANNI VERSACE SPA (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); COSTUME INSTITUTE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; CUBISM; ART; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); HISTORY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA GIANNI VERSACE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



244 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: New York's Farmers Stay Cool in the Face of Global Warming

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: LYSANDER, N.Y., Dec. 10

 BODY:
Warren Abbott intends to plant next year's corn in late April, something his forebears would not understand.
To his great-great grandparents, who in 1866 built the family farm here just north of Syracuse, such plans would suggest madness. Back then, you put corn in the ground around Memorial Day. 
 Global warming, right?
Actually, it's technology -- not climate change -- that has stretched growing seasons upstate. Genetically improved crops and high-tech soil-testing instruments give farmers an edge over nature that Mr. Abbott's ancestors never imagined. And those advances could define New York State's agricultural future, if predictions for global warming come true.
In September, a coalition of state agencies started a two-year study of ways to deal with global warming. As part of its research, the state plans to inventory the greenhouse gases being sent into the atmosphere from power plants and motor vehicles.
"We realize that it's better to be out in front of this issue than behind this issue," said John Cahill, Commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
High on the list of industries affected by global warming: agriculture.
But to those who tend fields and orchards, threats of long-range global warming take a back seat to the daily battle to stay competitive.
Mr. Abbott, 35 and a member of the fifth generation on a family farm that now produces apples, potatoes, corn and wheat, said: "For us, every year is a different year, and if you don't have that mind-set, you're gone. Farming right now is probably changing faster than the computer industry."
That rate probably will not change. Mr. Abbott may soon use satellites to monitor almost every square foot of his 600 acres.
But one warm year, or even a string of them, hardly signifies a climate change. Although there is still spirited debate over the existence of global warming, that is bound to change.
"Over the course of the next two or three decades, my guesstimate is it will be quite obvious that something is happening," said David Wolfe, a Cornell University crop biologist.
To home gardeners, a warmer climate might mean bigger tomatoes and watermelons, Mr. Wolfe said. But to farm industries in which crops are well adapted to the current seasons, a minor tweak in temperatures could bring major challenges.
Among the most vulnerable are apple growers, the dairy industry, and those who produce certain types of grapes and such cool-season vegetables as cabbage. A warmer climate could force farmers to change varieties or install air-conditioning in dairy barns. Even water supply, seldom an issue in upstate New York, could become a problem if precipitation rates change.
"The farmers can adapt," Mr. Wolfe said. "But those adaptations could be costly."
He said that a warmer climate could mean wide daily temperature swings, and that frosts might hit just as early, or even earlier.
"There will be some farm families and some rural economies who could really be losers because they might not have the capital to make these adaptations," Mr. Wolfe said. "On the other hand, there could be some winners. We have a lot of smart farmers out there."
But many farmers are accustomed to change. Like John Fessenden, 35, of King Ferry, Cayuga County, who oversees 500 cows and grows corn and alfalfa on 800 acres.
"Whatever changes happen will be so gradual that we'll just adapt," Mr. Fessenden said. "It's not like next year it's going to be 10 degrees warmer and we're going to be trying to grow palm trees."
Mr. Abbott summed up: "Farmers have been adjusting since the days of the steam engine. Believe me, we will adjust."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; GENETIC ENGINEERING; SOIL; TESTS AND TESTING; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT GLOBAL WARMING (93%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); APPLE ORCHARDS (77%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (74%); GARDENING (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



245 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Lamond Godwin, Portfolio Manager And Educator, 56

 BODY:
Lamond Godwin, the chairman and chief executive of Peachtree Asset Management, a division of Salomon Smith Barney, died on Nov. 15 at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. Mr. Godwin, a resident of Atlanta, was 56.
The cause of death was a heart attack, said his son, Lamond Charles Godwin. 
 Mr. Godwin founded Peachtree Asset Management, which manages large equity portfolios for corporations, pension funds, endowments and other institutional clients, in 1994. He was also a managing director of Salomon Smith Barney.
Mr. Godwin joined American Express Bank, a division of the American Express Company, as senior director and first vice president in 1986. Later, he served as senior vice president in the asset management group of Shearson Lehman Brothers, which was owned by American Express. Smith Barney bought Shearson in 1992 and purchased Salomon Brothers last year.
After he graduated from Clark College, which is now Clark Atlanta University, in 1964 with a bachelor's degree in economics, Mr. Godwin earned a master's degree in economics from the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign in 1967. He also studied at the European Institute for Business Administration in Fontainebleau, France.
Mr. Godwin held several positions in higher education, including senior research associate at the Wharton Applied Research Center at the University of Pennsylvania and resident fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. During the Carter Administration, Mr. Godwin was the director of national programs for the Employment and Training Administration in the Department of Labor.
He is survived by his wife, Thelma, of Atlanta; his daughter, Agnes Godwin Hall of Atlanta; his son, Lamond Charles, of San Diego, and a sister, Edna Godwin Easton of Mobile, Ala. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (83%); STAN (LSE) (57%); 2888 (HKSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MOBILE, AL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (83%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING ADMINISTRATION (54%); EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING ADMINISTRATION (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING ADMINISTRATION (54%); EMPLOYMENT & TRAINING ADMINISTRATION (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MOBILE, AL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: GODWIN, LAMOND JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



246 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ericsson to Eliminate 10,000 More Jobs

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, Dec. 10

 BODY:
Ericsson A.B., the Swedish company that has been aggressively reorganizing its business to resist growing competition in its key cellular phone business, said today that its fourth-quarter profit would be 15 percent to 20 percent lower than expected and that it would cut 10,000 more jobs because of flagging demand for its phones and public switching systems.
The company, which warned investors in October to expect slower sales because of economic turmoil in Asia and Latin America, said it would announce a 10 percent cut in its work force, or 10,000 jobs, in January. That would be in addition to 10,000 jobs that the company is eliminating as part of a cost-cutting effort begun a year ago. 
 Ericsson reported that revenue from cellular phones in the third quarter fell by 1.6 percent, to 10.82 billion Swedish kronor, or $1.35 billion, from 11 billion kronor in the period a year earlier. But the company said it had maintained its global market share, which is 16 percent, according to Dataquest, the market research consultant.
Analysts surveyed by First Call, which tracks company earnings, said they expected Ericsson to earn 87 cents a share in 1998 and $1.05 a share in 1999, up from 81 cents a share in 1997. But the announcement of the new job cuts reflects serious worries that despite undiminished confidence in its long-term prospects, slower growth in many of its key global markets in 1999 will dampen sales of cellular phones and phone systems.
After the earnings warning today, shares of Ericsson fell more than 22 percent, to 183 kronor. Its American depository receipts fell $4.75, to $24.125. In its wake, shares of other telephone suppliers, including Alcatel of France and Royal Philips Electronics, turned lower. Shares of other telephone-equipment makers also fell. Motorola declined $2.50, to $57.5625; A.D.R.'s of Finland's Nokia lost $2.3125, to $106, and Lucent Technologies dropped $2.1875, to $97.1875.
Analysts who follow Ericsson, the world's third-largest wireless phone company after Nokia and Motorola, interpreted the announcement as an effort by Ericsson to manage market expectations and said it reflected disappointingly low growth in public contracts from Asia and Latin America, where a recovery is taking longer than expected.
Ericsson's cellular phone sales have been hurt by slower economic growth in emerging markets, and while signs are emerging of gradual recovery in some Asian countries, Sven-Christer Nilsson, Ericsson's chief executive, said that "wider repercussions on global demand" were depressing sales and income.
Last year, Ericsson began moving swiftly to increase productivity and improve earnings, including cutting 10,000 jobs worldwide. The company now employs about 100,000 people, including about 9,000 in the United States. The company's American operations are based in Richardson, Tex., and it has major operations in North Carolina, Virginia, California and New York.
Lars Stolberg, Ericsson's spokesman, said the additional job cuts would most likely total 10,000 workers. He said Ericsson was more than halfway through the last round of layoffs and had not yet decided where the new cuts would be.
Mr. Nilsson said Ericsson's nine-month results were also depressed by a shift in demand to lower-priced cellular phones, notably those linked to prepaid phone services, which now account for about a third of the large European market.
Such prepaid cards generally enable customers to own wireless phones and receive unlimited calls while allowing them to make a limited number of outgoing calls at a fixed rate. These phones are usually low priced and have low margins for manufacturers. Mr. Nilsson said that accounted for a lower operating profit despite increased sales.
Ericsson has had to act decisively to resist the growing competition from global competitors, including Nokia, which this year overtook Ericsson as the largest supplier of digital cellular phones to the United States, the world's largest market, doubling its market share to 40.3 percent, from 19.8 percent in 1997, according to Dataquest. At the same time, Ericsson's share plummeted to 20.6 percent from 41.3 percent.
Analysts have praised Ericsson's efforts to revamp its operations, and they say fresh technology in the cellular business should enable Ericsson to regain momentum.
Phillip Redman, who follows the cellular phone market for Yankee Group, a consulting concern in Boston, said much of Nokia's gains in the United States could be attributed to its success in landing lucrative contracts to supply digital cellular phones with advanced technology to AT&T, the largest American cellular phone operator, which introduced the system with considerable fanfare earlier this year. "So 1998 for Ericsson was not a great year," he said.
Ericsson is well placed, however, to compete with a new generation of digital cellular phone technology that is expected to be introduced in markets in Asia and elsewhere, with broader capabilities than current models, he said.
"That will be a much larger market, and also a global market," he said. "So on the long-term growth cycle Ericsson is well prepared."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (98%); ERIC.A (STO) (98%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (98%); ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); PHIA (BIT) (53%); PHIA (AMS) (53%); PHG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ERICSSON AB TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (98%); ERICSSON AB (93%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERICSSON AB

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (57%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKET SIZE (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (58%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN SVEN-CHRISTER NILSSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



247 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Mexican Airline Chief Arrested in Tax Case

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 10

 BODY:
In a new criminal prosecution that points to toughening enforcement of Mexico's fiscal laws, the president of the board of Mexico's third-largest airline was arrested today and charged with tax fraud, the authorities said. 
 A statement issued by the Mexican Attorney General accused the executive, Alberto Abed Shekaiban, of Taesa -- formally Transportes Aereos Ejecutivos S.A. -- of failing to notify tax authorities about money he withheld from employees for income and other taxes in 1996. The amount in question was put at 28.8 million pesos, or $2.9 million.
Mr. Abed, 46, was jailed pending arraignment, a statement said.
Employees at Taesa's offices here declined today to identify Mr. Abed's lawyers or any corporate spokesman. Rafael Montero, a Taesa representative in New York, did not return phone calls seeking comment.
Mexico's tax collection rates have been among the lowest in the world's major economies, and Government officials have repeatedly lectured business leaders about complying with their tax obligations.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: TAESA (MEXICAN AIRLINE) TRANSPORTES AEREOS PORTUGUESES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAESA (MEXICAN AIRLINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; TAX EVASION TAX FRAUD (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ARRESTS (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (88%); INCOME TAX (69%); 

PERSON: ABED SHEKAIBAN, ALBERTO ALBERTO ABED SHEKAIBAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



248 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise in Week

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10

 BODY:
Initial jobless applications inched up in early December, increasing for the second consecutive week, the Labor Department said today.
The number of Americans registering first-time claims for state unemployment funds rose to 314,000 for the week ended last Saturday. 
 Initial claims were up from 313,000 the week before and were at their highest level since the week ended Nov. 14, when claims totaled 340,000.
Since mid-July, claims have stayed below 320,000 with the exception of two weather-related increases in November. While claims have risen in the last weeks, they are still near levels considered to be consistent with a healthy labor market.
The four-week moving average of new jobless claims, which irons out fluctuations in weekly claims to give a better indication of jobless trends, fell to 316,750 from a revised 319,000 in the previous week.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



249 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Kimberly-Clark Revises Structure

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 10

 BODY:
The Kimberly-Clark Corporation, the world's biggest maker of tissue products, said today that it would reorganize along product lines, rather than geographic regions, to help sales and speed the introduction of products worldwide.
Senior executives will have global responsibility for its three businesses: tissue and paper, including Kleenex and Scott towels; personal care products like Huggies diapers, and health care and nonwoven goods, including surgical masks. 
 Kimberly-Clark, which earns more than a third of its revenue outside the United States, wants to revive sales hurt by recessions in Asia and difficulties in its European business. The reorganization is similar to one announced in September by a rival, the Procter & Gamble Company.
"You could see a big leap in revenue" at Kimberly-Clark, said Robert Izmirlian, an analyst at the Standard & Poor's Corporation. "If you introduce a product globally rather than in one region, you get a bigger boost and it costs less."
The company, which is based in Dallas, does not plan more job cuts as part of the restructuring or any charge to earnings, a spokeswoman said. In November 1997, the company said it would dismiss 5,000 employees, or almost 10 percent of its work force.
Each of the three businesses will be responsible for developing global brands and products, cost reduction, technology, research and development and capital investments, the company said.
The businesses will be led by Thomas J. Falk, who was named group president for tissue and paper; Kathi P. Seifert, group president for personal-care products, and Robert E. Abernathy, group president for health care and nonwovens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (98%); PGP (PAR) (70%); PG (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (98%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (98%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (70%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (98%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PAPER MFG (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TOILETRIES MFG (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); 

PERSON: ROBERT ABERNATHY (58%); THOMAS J FALK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



250 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Commodities' Price Slide Victimizes Economies of Several Nations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The recent drop in the price of oil and natural gas and the continuing decline of other commodity prices at year's end is putting renewed pressure on many of the emerging-market countries at the center of the global financial crisis.
Many of the world's most troubled nations -- economically, politically, or both -- depend on the sale of commodities for a major part of their economic growth and government revenue. 
 Just look at a list of oil exporters: Russia, Venezuela, Mexico, Ecuador, Algeria, Nigeria and Indonesia. These countries, and others, are getting less for commodities, whether it is oil, copper, platinum or zinc.
"My view is that the markets haven't sensed how seriously this can be for the global economy," said Lawrence J. Brainard, head of emerging-market research at Chase Securities. "I think it is a sleeper."
The intensifying commodity problem is expected to lead to bigger bond defaults in Russia and -- at a minimum -- sharp budget-cutting in many Latin American and other nations that could aggravate political uncertainty. In addition, growth will slow in a world that aside from the United States and Europe is already in a recession or on the edge.
Commodity prices have been one of the two key conduits for transmitting the Asian financial crisis around the world. The other has been stock markets, which have gotten more attention from investors. Lower commodity prices are mostly seen as a boon for investors, reducing costs on gasoline, heating oil, natural gas, food and many manufactured products.
The stock markets in many of the troubled countries are rebounding now, after central bank interest-rate cuts in the United States and Europe and an International Monetary Fund rescue package for Brazil helped calm investor fears of a global recession.
But the worldwide demand that is needed to turn commodity prices around is not showing up. Two closely followed commodity indexes -- the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index and the Commodity Research Bureau/Bridge index -- are at their lowest levels in more than two decades. Commodities are so weak that Citigroup may sell its Phibro commodity business.
Actually, a 10-month slide in commodity prices that began in the fall of 1997 -- when the effects of the Asian crisis first hit the United States -- was more steep and damaging than the second wave of declines that began in mid-November. From October 1997 until the end of August this year, the Commodity Research index plunged 21 percent, then leveled off. But since Nov. 12 it has dropped almost 8 percent.
What worries analysts now is that the recent decline is a signal that prices will not turn around soon.
Matthew J. Sagers, the director of the energy service of Planecon, a consulting group specializing in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, said the consensus on oil prices "is that we are going to be here for several years."
Mr. Brainard and other analysts argue that an extended period of lost economic growth and lower governmental revenues stemming from the drop in commodity prices will raise the pressure on many already troubled governments and economies. That could intensify investor concern and weaken currencies. To defend those currencies, central banks would have to raise their interest rates -- which would mean even slower growth.
The impact on Russia, for example, has been stark. The country's $87 billion in 1997 exports included $21.9 billion in oil, $16.4 billion in gas and $14 billion in metals -- about 60 percent of the total.
But the prices of every one of these commodities have fallen sharply and are still declining. The price of platinum, for which Russia is the second major supplier, has dropped almost 12 percent just since July. The price of oil plunged 36 percent -- from around $22 a barrel in October 1997 to around $14 in August -- and has fallen another 23 percent, to $10.72, since November.
These sectors, especially energy, are a critical source of tax revenue for the Russian Government. About a third of Government budget revenues come from energy taxes, according to Marcel Cassard, the chief economist for emerging Europe at Deutsche Bank in London.
The exact impact the recent commodity price decline will have on the Russian budget and spending is hard to tell; the draft 1999 budget is already hard to interpret because it includes new tax cuts. The Government budget, adopted yesterday, reduces both the value-added tax and the corporate tax, and does not impose, as some analysts had hoped, new export taxes on energy.
Even so, Mr. Cassard said, "you would have to assume lower revenues."
The most immediate fallout from this commodities pricing squeeze, several analysts said, will be even more Russian defaults on foreign loans, as the Government diverts those interest and principal payments to cover the cost of domestic programs.
Russia owes about $17 billion of interest and principal payments this year, including $5 billion to the I.M.F. The Government included debt payments of just $9.5 billion in its draft budget.
In fact, the Government has already asked the foreign goverment leaders in the so-called Paris Club and the foreign bank lenders in the London Club to restructure and stretch out their debt payments.
But now analysts say that even the goal of $9.5 billion will not be met. "Looking at the budget assumptions and the exchange rate, they will have serious problems servicing even $5 billion of debt," said Gretchen R. Rodkey, the Russian and East European bond analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company.
Analysts say the only bonds they are sure will be serviced are the Russian Eurobonds that had been issued by the present Government after the fall of the old Soviet Union.
The commodity price decline is also hurting countries with more economic importance to the United States and the world. The Mexican Government said last week that the drop in oil prices would cut its budget revenue by as much as $1.5 billion next year, forcing it into a tough debate on how to close the gap. The oil price decline could also slow economic growth.
In Venezuela, where Hugo Chavez, a former coup leader and political outsider, was elected president on Sunday, oil accounts for 70 percent of the country's exports and 50 percent of its budget revenue.
And as Mr. Chavez determines the new path to take Venezuela -- and the spending to support it -- investors will remember that for every decline in the price of oil, Venezuela's revenues will suffer more than those of any other Latin American nation.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEFAULTING EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BONDS (72%); POLITICS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



251 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Russia Offers 1999 Budget: 'Honest' or 'Unrealistic'?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 10

 BODY:
After three months of vacillation, the Government today finally unveiled its 1999 spending plan to halt Russia's economic tumble.
Yevgeny M. Primakov called the economic blueprint, his first as Prime Minister, a bold effort to boost Russian hard-pressed factories and farms while clamping down on wasteful spending. 
 "It is honest," Mr. Primakov said today. "We have not included what we cannot pay for."
But the 1999 budget was roundly criticized as a political exercise to attract Western financial aid while placating powerful constituencies at home.
From tax revenues to inflation, the budget is based on highly optimistic assumptions, which are unlikely to survive their bruising contact with Russia's dour economic realities.
"The budget is based on a best-case scenario," said Peter Westin, an economist with the Russian-European Center for Economic Policy. "It all looks very unrealistic."
Since he took office three months ago, Mr. Primakov has talked of the need for state intervention in the economy to prop up faltering enterprises. Today's budget includes billions of rubles of new subsidies for the coal industry and for agriculture.
In a bow to Communist sentiment and to buy peace in the ranks of the military, enlisted soldiers will have their pay increased by 62 percent, and officers by 102 percent.
With the Government all but broke, the new budget was the subject of considerable infighting between the Yuri D. Maslyukov, the Communist member of the Primakov team who oversees economic policy, and Mikhail Zadornov, the reform-minded Finance Minister. At the insistence of Mr. Zadornov, spending plans were trimmed back and revenue projections decreased.
But the budget still reflects the premium Mr. Primakov has placed on achieving political consensus by distributing credits, writing off debts and avoiding unpopular reforms.
With politicians increasingly consumed with the struggle to succeed the ailing President, Boris N. Yeltsin, it is unclear whether any of Russia's leaders has the will to put the nation's financial house in order.
The fear is that by the time the Communist-dominated Parliament approves the Primakov budget plan, the Government will be left with a sizable deficit. That will force it to print even more rubles and heighten the already consideration inflation.
The shaky state of market reform in Russia is a big concern for Strobe Talbott, the United States Deputy Secretary of State, and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, who have come to Moscow for high-level talks on economic and security issues.
The 1999 budget calls for spending of 573 billion rubles ($29 billion). The United States 1999 Federal budget, in contrast, is $1.7 trillion.
Russian revenue is projected at 474 billion rubles ($24 billion). That leaves a budget deficit of 101.5 billion rubles ($5.1 billion).
The projected deficit is equivalent to 2.5 percent of Russia's gross domestic product. When the large debt servicing costs are excluded, Government revenue will actually exceed spending by 1.7 percent of G.D.P., Mr. Zadornov boasted today.
Western economists have long been urging Russia to slash its enormous deficit, which was one major cause of its current economic crisis. But the fine print of the budget is less than persuasive, economists said.
The Government is forecasting tax receipts that far exceed Russia's current level of tax collection. Indeed, in recent weeks the Government appears to have dealt a blow to revenue-raising efforts by deciding to cut the nation's value added tax from 20 percent to 15 percent.
The action was taken at the urging of Georgi Boos, the new head of the State Tax Service. Invoking Russia's version of "supply side" economics, Mr. Boos has argued that the cut in the VAT will encourage economic growth and increase tax receipts.
But few economists agree. They say Mr. Boos has simply handed out a costly favor to his business friends and deprived the nation of important income. In a country where cheating on taxes is a national pastime, the VAT, a type of sales tax that is applied at each stage of production and distribution, is one of the few levies that the Government is able to collect on a regular basis.
Critics also say the budget's inflation estimate (30 percent) is based on wishful thinking. Sergei V. Kiriyenko, who was dismissed as Prime Minister in August, said the best the country could hope for was an inflation rate of 60 or 70 percent.
Significantly, the budget also assumes optimistically that Russia will attract billions in foreign credits from the International Monetary Fund and other sources.
Russia also put the West on notice that it is counting on its cooperation to renegotiate its debt. The budget calls for paying only $9.5 billion in foreign debt and interest payments next year of the $17.5 billion due.
"Without an easing of the debt burden in 1999 and 2000 and the following years, it is simply not possible for Russia to exist," Mr. Zadornov said. "It is simply like that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Russian budget proposal is intended to pull the country out of its economic crisis. Pensioners looked for empty bottles and goods rejected by factories at a city dump in Dolgoprudny near Moscow yesterday. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TRENDS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%); COAL INDUSTRY (52%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



252 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Tumbles On Concerns About Profits

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday as investors continued to react to warnings from major companies that earning and sales reports would be disappointing.
The latest retreat amounted to 167.61 points on the Dow Jones industrial average. It spared no major index as investors appeared to seize on a combination of unsettling developments as a reason to lock in profits from what still shapes up as a fourth straight year of exceptional advances. 
 Besides corporate "confessions" or downgrades by analysts involving the likes of Merck, J. P. Morgan, Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble this week, investors were said to be disturbed about a Federal Reserve survey showing less vigorous retail sales and the prospect of an impeachment trial for President Clinton.
Dazed to some extent by success, particularly in the Nasdaq market that made two record highs this week, investors "may be locking in gains before the end of the year," suggested Timothy J. Morris, the chief domestic strategist at Bessemer Trust.
And while impeachment is still far from Topic A among investors, Mr. Morris and others said many people seemed nervous that the proceedings remained unresolved even though Mr. Clinton's removal from office is widely thought to be highly unlikely.
One measure of the market's skittishness is the pounding taken by Merck, down 5 11/16 yesterday and 6 3/4 on Wednesday, after the company projected earnings next year of $4.85 to $4.95 a share, compared with a Wall Street consensus of $4.97. The shares closed yesterday at 146 1/4.
"That's a bit of an overreaction," said Philip J. Orlando, the chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management.
Yesterday, an analyst at Paine Webber downgraded the nation's second-biggest drug company, Bristol-Myers Squibb, to neutral from attractive and the stock slumped 4 5/8, to 123.
The Dow's third straight decline, 1.86 percent, to 8,841.58, meant the blue-chip average has retreated 532 points, or 5.68 percent, from the peak it hit the Monday before Thanksgiving.
After Merck, the biggest pressure on the average yesterday was from I.B.M., down 4 7/16 , to 165; Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, off 3 1/4, to 74 1/2, and J. P. Morgan, down 2 11/16 , to 101 1/2. Only three of 30 components -- American Express, Union Carbide and AT&T -- eked out gains.
The selling pressure embraced computer, software and even Internet companies, which had been strong recently. Internet losses, however, were mostly small and Ebay, which has been experiencing some system bugs, stood out with a gain of 6 19/32 , to 186 1/8.
Over all, the Nasdaq market fell 34.46, or 1.68 percent, to 2,015.96, while the Russell 2000, which is made up of small-capitalization stocks, fell 1.36 percent.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, widely used as a benchmark by professional managers, fell 18.47, to 1,165.02. This decline, 1.56 percent, left the broad index ahead for 1998 by a little more than 20 percent, compared with 11.8 percent for the Dow industrials and 28.4 percent for Nasdaq. The Russell 2000, by contrast, is down 9.27 percent for the year.
Despite the downdraft, two initial offerings did well. Infinity Broadcasting climbed to 23 1/16 from 20 1/2, while Abovenet surged to 16 3/4 from 13.
On the New York Stock Exchange, declining issues swamped advancing ones, 2,118 to 943, while new lows edged new highs, 75 to 72. Volume was a moderate 760.95 million shares.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Rally Again
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Bonds rose for the 11th time in 12 sessions -- pushing 30-year yields to a two-month low -- as stocks tumbled and investors wagered that inflation would stay low.
"You're seeing a deterioration in the stock market, and bonds are improving," as investors are drawn to the safety of Government debt, said Frank Rachwalski, who oversees $18 billion at Scudder Kemper Investments.
The 30-year Treasury bond rose 15/32 , to 104 20/32 , cutting its yield 2 basis points, to 4.96 percent, the lowest since Oct. 7. The yield on two-year notes, the most actively traded Treasury securities, fell 4 basis points, to 4.37 percent.
Bonds also rose because many investors were seeking to protect their 1998 gains by buying Treasuries.
"You're seeing people going into the more liquid securities," like Treasuries, said Joe LaVorgna, an economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. "Nobody wants to make any big bets" before the year closes.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Dec. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); MMM (SWX) (52%); MMM (NYSE) (52%); MMM (FRA) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (52%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); 3M CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



253 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Rowland to Reassess Terms for Football Stadium

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 10

 BODY:
In an about-face he had struggled for weeks to avoid, Gov. John G. Rowland acknowledged today that some terms of his stadium deal with the New England Patriots were too generous, and he said he would seek changes before the state legislature takes up the proposal on Tuesday.
Governor Rowland, who negotiated the deal in secret and then defended it even as sports economists called it the biggest giveaway in the National Football League, suggested today that he was an innocent bystander. "Some of us may feel that it's a little sweeter than we would like it to be," he said. "There will be some negotiations, and I think we'll probably make some changes between now and Tuesday." 
 The revisions being demanded by lawmakers could substantially change the contract, leading to a potential clash between state leaders and the Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft, who until today had been working closely together. "My responsibility is to the legislators, and I want them to feel comfortable in this vote," Governor Rowland said.
Although legislators have become increasingly vocal in their doubts about the plan, legislative leaders still express confidence that the package will win approval.
The Governor announced his plans for renegotiations the day after a hearing in which legislators peppered Mr. Kraft with demands for concessions in the agreement, particularly a passage that provides a state guarantee for as much as $17.5 million a year if luxury suites and seats go unsold. Mr. Kraft held his ground in front of the television cameras on Wednesday. State officials said they believed he might accept modest changes that would help them save face with their critics.
But legislators are prodding Governor Rowland to go after the issue that Mr. Kraft has indicated may be the least negotiable. "There are substantive concerns that legislators have, and if we make some changes in the guarantee, I think it makes it more palatable," Governor Rowland said. "Clearly, the issue has come down to the guarantee. For the majority of the legislators, they would probably like to see the guarantee changed slightly." He said he had not broached that subject with Mr. Kraft, but said he planned to in the next 48 hours.
On Wednesday, Jonathan Kraft, a Patriots vice president and Mr. Kraft's son, said, "The guarantees are black and white."
Robert Kraft would be free to walk away from the tentative agreement if even the slightest change were made to it.
Team officials, who have said the original deal would benefit the public as well as the Patriots, declined to comment on today's developments. But Jonathan Kraft and another Patriots vice president were scheduled to resume negotiating at the Connecticut Capitol on Friday, and the two postponed a series of satellite interviews they had scheduled with Hartford television stations to explain the tentative agreement.
After legislative leaders met with the Governor for three hours today, they said they were pleased that he planned to contact Mr. Kraft in an effort to renegotiate the guarantees. But the Senate President, Kevin B. Sullivan, said: "That is a very tough nut to crack." Later, he added, "At this point, I'm not optimistic, but we're crossing our fingers. It's a tough sell."
Andrew S. Zimbalist, a sports economist at Smith College who contends that Connecticut could have made a much more modest proposal and still landed the Patriots, said the changes proposed by Governor Rowland would do little to make the deal more equitable. "Taking about 10 or 15 million dollars out of the pot is silly," he said. "You could take $100 million out of the pot and still make it a good deal for Kraft."
Mr. Zimbalist, who attended Wednesday's hearing, said Mr. Kraft's comments had contained no information to reassure lawmakers about the original proposal. "I think legislators are beginning to get the sense that they don't have to give him the sky to get him to come," Mr. Zimbalist said. "Why would anyone walk away from the richest deal in N.F.L. history?"
The last straw for many legislators was a report released on Wednesday by the General Assembly's nonpartisan Office of Fiscal Analysis showing that the stadium could cost taxpayers as much as $323 million over 30 years. The Governor's estimate, on the other hand, said the stadium would make a profit of $3 million over that period.
Today, the legislature's leaders took a step that they said would greatly improve the financial outlook for the project. They agreed to use at least $100 million of the state's expected $350 million budget surplus as a down payment for the stadium. "This radically changes the debt," Mr. Rowland said. He released figures today indicating that under this new plan, the stadium would show a profit of $396 million over that time.
The most powerful legislator who has declined to sign on to the stadium deal is the House Majority Leader, Moira K. Lyons, a Democrat of Stamford. She said the use of the surplus "makes it much more cost-effective for everybody."
The hasty changes were intended to appease lawmakers like Representative Robert Farr, a Republican from West Hartford, who was so lonely in the early days of sounding the alarm about the potential risks of the stadium that he said he felt like "the designated driver when everyone is saying, 'Let's party.' "
Not anymore: Representative Farr said he discovered dozens of kindred spirits among his colleagues at Wednesday's hearing. "When everyone got together and compared notes, they found there's a lot of people with concerns about the costs," he said.
Despite the negotiations, the legislative leaders said they remained wedded to voting on Tuesday.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); KRAFT, ROBERT K ROBERT K KRAFT (94%); JOHN G ROWLAND (94%); ANDREW S ZIMBALIST (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



254 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Study Questions Plan for Hudson Rail Tunnel

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seemed to be inaugurating a new era of large-scale public works two years ago when he called for the construction of a rail tunnel under the Hudson River to carry freight between the Brooklyn waterfront and the rest of the country.
The idea drew headlines, and Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Alfonse M. D'Amato quickly endorsed the multibillion-dollar plan, which they said would bring a new generation of deep-hulled ships and thousands of jobs to the Brooklyn docks, while cutting truck traffic and pollution on the city's bridges and in its tunnels. 
 But a new report by the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University says that the Mayor's costly proposal would neither insure that the Port of New York and New Jersey remains the East Coast's center of maritime trade, nor benefit many of the city's manufacturers.
Instead, the report says, a new container port in Brooklyn would funnel thousands of freight-laden trucks onto the city's already overburdened Gowanus Expressway and jeopardize existing businesses on the Brooklyn waterfront.
With most of the cargo coming into the region destined for points west, not east, the report said that it makes more economic sense to deepen the channels in Port Elizabeth, Port Newark and Howland Hook, to accommodate the jumbo-size container ships that are expected to dominate shipping in coming years.
"Rather than looking toward the next century, Mayor Giuliani's project is an attempt to recreate the Brooklyn waterfront of the 1940's, an industrial-era vision that is ill-suited for the information age," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center and a co-author of the report.
"We should build on Brooklyn's strengths as a place to live and work," he said, "but the future of the port lies in Bayonne, Jersey City and Staten Island."
Titled "Tunnel Vision: An analysis of the Proposed Tunnel and Deepwater Port in Brooklyn," the report by Mr. Moss and Hugh O'Neill contends that New York City and the Port Authority could strengthen Brooklyn's economy by expanding South Brooklyn's role in handling "niche," or noncontainer cargo, like cocoa, coffee, lumber and steel, while promoting light industry in Sunset Park and parks and residential development on the waterfront.
But the container terminals should be built in Bayonne and Jersey City, which have better access to railroads and highways, Mr. Moss said.
Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is overseeing the port and tunnel studies, did not return repeated phone calls.
Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of Manhattan, a longtime proponent of a rail tunnel, criticized Mr. Moss's analysis as the kind of "nitpicking" that has led to the decline of the Brooklyn waterfront since the 1960's and the loss of manufacturing jobs. He said it would be more cost-effective to rebuild Brooklyn's deep-water piers and build a tunnel than it would be to spend billions dredging the Kill van Kull, the narrow channel between Staten Island and New Jersey, so that the new container ships could dock in Port Elizabeth or Port Newark.
In any event, he said, the increasing volume of maritime trade may necessitate building container terminals in Brooklyn and Hoboken, neither of which requires extensive dredging.
The Taub report, which will be issued next week, comes as both the Giuliani administration and the Port Authority are completing their own multimillion-dollar studies concerning the redevelopment of the port. Analysts say that billions of dollars must be invested in dredging channels, expanding container terminals and improving truck and rail access to the port to capture a major share of an expected growth in Asian trade via the Suez Canal.
The Port Authority estimates that the volume of freight containers flowing through New York Harbor could more than triple over the next 20 years.
But New York faces competition from other ports on the East Coast. This week, Sea Land and the Maersk Line, the giant shipping alliance whose leases on the New Jersey waterfront expire in 2000, are expected to pare their list of potential sites for a new hub port on the Eastern Seaboard to New York, Baltimore and Halifax, Nova Scotia.
"We're at a very critical juncture for the port," said Brian Maher, chief executive of Maher Terminals, which handles about 45 percent of the cargo flowing through the port. "Sea Land and Maersk are looking at their options. If they're not convinced the Kill van Kull will be deepened to 45 -- and eventually 50 -- feet, they might very well decide to build a hub port in Baltimore."
The future of the port, however, has been mired in rivalries between New York and New Jersey. Although New York Harbor is at the edge of a vast market, it must deepen the major channels for the huge container ships, which already carry about 25 percent of all maritime cargo.
Mayor Giuliani has insisted that the port should be expanded in Brooklyn, which, like Bayonne, sits on a deeper channel than Elizabeth. Although the current container port is in New Jersey, Mayor Giuliani initially said that a $4 billion rail tunnel and 1,100-acre container port in Brooklyn could generate 53,000 jobs and revive the city's manufacturing industries.
John Vickerman of VZM Transystems, which is conducting a port study for the city, said he is now reviewing a more modest $1 billion proposal to build a 275-acre terminal in Sunset Park for noncontainer cargo and automobiles, which could be converted over time to a container port. He acknowledged that the city would have to improve the highway system in Brooklyn, which could cost another $1 billion or more.
The Port Authority, which is releasing its master plan later this month, is looking to avoid a battle with New York. The plan examines the development of new or expanded container terminals in Port Newark, Bayonne, Staten Island and Brooklyn. In the meantime, the study recommends stabilizing Brooklyn's piers, building new warehouses and expanding the use of barges to carry containers to and from the waterfront and cut down on truck traffic.
Mr. Moss said that 75 percent of the cargo that moves through the port is headed to or from distribution centers west of New York, much of it by truck. Although rail traffic is expected to grow in the future, it makes little sense, Mr. Moss said, to build a container port on the east side of the Hudson River.
"Moss's study highlights the need for immediate action and the importance of strategic investments if we are going to grab a bigger share of world trade," said Chris O. Ward, chief of planning for the Port Authority. "Brooklyn's long-term role will be determined by a cost-effective solution to its transportation problems."

GRAPHIC: Map of New York/New Jersey highlighting the proposed tunnel's route; A planned tunnel would go from Brooklyn to Staten Island or Jersey City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TAUB URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (NEW YORK UNIVERSITY) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (68%); PORT AUTHORITY (58%); TAUB URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAUB URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (NEW YORK UNIVERSITY) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (68%); PORT AUTHORITY (58%); TAUB URBAN RESEARCH CENTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOWLAND HOOK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; PORT OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; PORT ELIZABETH (NJ); PORT NEWARK; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; RAILROADS BRIDGES & TUNNELS (93%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (89%); JERROLD NADLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



255 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
SERBIA: EXAMINATION OF GRAVES IS BLOCKED -- A team of 19 Finnish forensic specialists investigating atrocities in Kosovo said the Serbian police barred them from opening a mass grave thought to contain the bodies of ethnic Albanians. Troops with armored vehicles blocked the Finns as they headed to the first of six sites they plan to search for bodies of civilians slaughtered in the conflict between Serbs and ethnic Albanian separatists in the province, in southern Serbia. (AP) 

BRITAIN: DANGERS OF THIRD-WORLD MISSILES -- Western nations could be at risk from chemical, biological or nuclear missile attacks from developing countries within the next five years, Jane's Intelligence Review reported. The authoritative military magazine said countries like Iran and North Korea are developing missile technology at a rate that could allow them to launch attacks on Western Europe and parts of the United States sooner than thought. (Reuters)
 
IRELAND: I.R.A. PRISONERS TO RETURN FROM BRITAIN -- Five Irish Republican Army prisoners serving long sentences in Britain are to be transferred to Irish jails before Christmas, the Irish Justice Ministry said. The five convicts, linked to various bombing attacks, are being moved as part of the peace effort in Northern Ireland. (Agence France-Presse)
GERMANY: SEEKING A CUT IN EUROPEAN UNION PAYMENTS -- Chancellor Gerhard Schroder said Germany would demand a cut in its payments to the European Union next year. Mr. Schroder, who takes over the six-month rotating presidency of the group next month, said Germany could not continue to cover 60 percent of the budget. (Reuters)
 
ITALY: VENICE FLOOD BARRIERS REJECTED -- The Government rejected an ambitious plan to build a barrier to shield Venice from the rising Adriatic, calling the $2.6 billion proposal too drastic for the fragile lagoon. Backers say the project is the only realistic way to safeguard Venice from floods that occur with every full moon. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: STUDENTS SWARM IN JA-KARTA -- Thousands of students took over downtown Jakarta in a festive demonstration marking International Human Rights Day. Soldiers and the police mostly gave the students free rein in an attempt to avoid violence, but two small clashes erupted when aggressive demonstrators challenged police lines. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
CHINA: ACQUISITION OF MISSILE TECHNOLOGY IS DENIED -- China said a Pentagon report that China had received sensitive rocket technology in 1995 from an American company reflected a "cold-war mentality." The report found that scientists with the Hughes Space and Communications Company had provided information that improved China's ability to launch satellites and ballistic missiles. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said China had no intention of obtaining such American technology. (Reuters)
 
CHINA: ARMY SELLS ITS BUSINESSES -- The garrison of the People's Liberation Army in Beijing has handed over its commercial empire to the city government weeks before a deadline for the military to get out of business. The People's Daily said the garrison transferred 68 military- and police-owned enterprises to the city. (Reuters)
 
JAPAN: MORE AID TO ASIA -- Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan could expand a $30-billion fund it has set aside to help financially troubled Asian nations. The package was initially proposed for Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand, but other countries like Vietnam have also asked for help. Japan plans to start offering aid by the end of the year. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: RUSSIAN-BUILT NUCLEAR REACTOR MOVES AHEAD -- Dismissing United States concerns, Russia's Atomic Energy Minister, Yevgeny Adamov, said Moscow would go ahead with a project to build a nuclear reactor in Iran, but would not hand over weapons technology. Russia signed an $800 million deal with Iran in 1995 to help build a 1,000-megawatt light-water reactor at Bushehr, in southern Iran. (AP)
 
LEBANON: ISRAELI JETS RATTLE RESIDENTS -- Israeli warplanes caused sonic booms over Beirut, again frightening residents. Beirut is on edge because Israel has threatened to attack power plants and other utilities in retaliation for recent guerrilla attacks in the south that have killed seven Israeli soldiers. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: THE PREVALENCE OF CRIME -- The first national survey of victims showed that crime, from theft to rape and murder, is prevalent throughout the country, with one household in five having experienced at least one crime in 1997, mainly burglary. The country recorded 24,588 murders, 52,160 rapes, 249,375 home burglaries and 13,011 carjackings in 1997. (Reuters)
 
UGANDA: WARILY, AID FOR UGANDA -- A group of donors agreed to release $2.2 billion to Uganda through 2001, including $830,000 dollars for budget support. But the donors expressed concern about Uganda's military spending and corruption, while praising the country for sustaining Africa's highest growth rate: 6.3 percent a year over the past 10 years. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
BRAZIL: SENATE RATIFIES AID -- The Senate ratified a $41.5 billion aid package put together by the International Monetary Fund to help the ailing economy. The endorsement lets Brazil sign financial aid agreements announced last month with the I.M.F. and the Bank for International Settlements, which is coordinating bilateral contributions to the credit line. The rescue package makes $41.5 billion available to Brazil over the next three years, including about $37 billion that can be drawn on if needed over the next 12 months. The I.M.F. is putting up $18.1 billion of the money. (AP)
 
FALKLAND ISLANDS: VISIT BY CHRISTOPHER ROBIN -- Argentina's Foreign Minister, Guido Di Tella, sends Falklanders Christmas presents to reduce their mistrust of Argentina, which occupied the islands but was driven out by Britain in 1982. This year's gift: copies of A. A. Milne's classic, "Winnie the Pooh," which Mr. Di Tella described in a covering note as "full of warmth, simplicity and ingenuousness." (Reuters)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); CHINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); ALBANIA (94%); FINLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRELAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (52%); 

COMPANY: HUGHES SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CO (61%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (96%); CHINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (94%); ALBANIA (94%); FINLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRELAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FORENSICS (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RIOTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); COLD WAR (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SPACE INDUSTRY (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (73%); SENTENCING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); PRISONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



256 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola Abruptly Calls Analyst Meeting

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company summoned securities analysts last night for an early morning meeting in New York today with its chairman and chief executive, M. Douglas Ivester.
The topic of the meeting was not disclosed, but analysts said it was described to them as a "major strategic announcement." 
 There was speculation last night that the meeting at the company's midtown Manhattan office concerned a big financial adjustment or a major acquisition, possibly of a soft-drink or other beverage brand. Coca-Cola's chief financial officer, James E. Chestnut, was also scheduled to brief analysts at the meeting.
Executives at Coca-Cola, which has its headquarters in Atlanta, did not return telephone calls.
It is routine for big publicly held companies to brief securities analysts on developments that could affect their financial outlooks and stock prices. But it is highly unusual for a company to arrange these briefings on such short notice.
Coca-Cola has been particularly hurt by the economic travails in developing countries over the past 18 months. Yesterday Coca-Cola's shares fell $1.0625, or 1.6 percent, to close at $66.0625, the lowest since Oct. 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (51%); 

PERSON: INVESTER, M DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



257 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
N.B.A. and Union Leaders Conduct Private Meeting

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
In a development that may lead to a break in the five-month stalemate between the National Basketball Association's owners and players, the chief negotiators for the league and the union held a private meeting yesterday in Manhattan, officials on both sides confirmed last night.
The meeting lasted almost five hours and included detailed discussions of specific proposals that have prevented an agreement, a participant in the meeting said on condition of anonymity. This was the second private meeting among the chief negotiators. The first was on Oct 26. 
 "From what I've been hearing, they had more detailed talks today than they've had in a long time," a person with knowledge of the session said on condition of anonymity.
The N.B.A.'s commissioner, David Stern, and deputy commissioner, Russ Granik, and the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, and president, Patrick Ewing, participated with top lawyers on each side.
There appeared to be a tone of optimism after the negotiations, enough so that parties on both sides were starting to believe there might be a season after all. The labor dispute is centered on how owners and players should divide $2 billion in annual revenues.
One participant in the meeting said he felt there was enough progress for the two sides to reconvene today. The participant said, however, that he did not expect full bargaining teams to meet until next week at the earliest, if then.
Given how the optimism from earlier negotiating sessions has always wilted within a few days, one league official was wary last night. "The fact that they're in touch is good, but beyond that there is nothing specific enough I see happening to suggest that there is going to be a real breakthrough," the official said on condition of anonymity.
It was the first contact between the players and the league in a week. Last Thursday the sides held their longest bargaining session of the lockout. After nearly 11 hours of negotiations and some heated exchanges between Stern and Hunter, the players and the owners talked openly about losing the entire season.
Already, more than two months of the season and the N.B.A. All-Star Game, which had been scheduled for Feb. 14 in Philadelphia, have been canceled, and the league is looking at a season that would encompass no more than 55 of the normal 82 games. Ewing, who has the highest annual salary in the league at $18.5 million, is due to lose nearly $5 million.
Yesterday's meeting was shrouded in secrecy like no other talks held over the past six months. Several regular participants in the negotiations were unaware that the two sides had met. Said one union official, "Once you couldn't find anybody in the office today, you had your suspicions."
Neither side would say the reason for the clandestine approach to the talks, but clearly the rhetoric after most sessions has had a detrimental effect on further meetings.
The last time internal negotiating teams held a private meeting was in October. By the time they emerged after a marathon session, an economic framework for a new collective bargaining agreement had been created. But negotiations based on that framework quickly unraveled.
Jeffrey Kessler, the union's chief outside counsel, would not comment on yesterday's meeting, but said: "It's better than not meeting at all. I don't think there's a lot going on here. They met. They talked. We hope to talk some more."
Though both Stern and Hunter were pessimistic after last Thursday, Hunter told a group of nearly 80 agents on a conference call Wednesday that he believed a deal would be struck and the season would not be lost.
"When the two key guys get in a room together and try to hash out the deal themselves, well, that might be the best chance of getting it done," said a player agent, Keith Glass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (95%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



258 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 35; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4147 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
City of Monumental Ideals

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Like Brasilia, Canberra and other created capitals, by which I mean cities that are custom-built as seats of government, Washington has been bad-mouthed from the very beginning.
Jefferson, obviously not foreseeing the day when he would gaze in perpetuity from his marble tempietto down by the Tidal Basin, called this "that Indian swamp in the wilderness." Dickens, who called Washington "the city of magnificent intentions," complained about "spacious avenues that begin in nothing and lead nowhere." John F. Kennedy famously remarked that our fair capital was full of "Northern charm and Southern efficiency." 
 Recently a local columnist named Steve Twomey groused about the city's reluctance to laugh, especially at itself; its failure to inspire a popular song, and even its pizza, which tastes, he said, like drywall.
Complaints that there are two Americas, one inside the Beltway and one outside, have of course reached deafening proportions. It is hard to say who is held in the lowest esteem by the average Janes and Joes who live outside Interstate 495, as the Beltway is formally known: politicians, journalists who write and talk about them, or lawyers and lobbyists who seek to influence them. Anyway, all are thought to be terminally out of touch. Henry James observed in 1907 that "Washington talks about herself and about almost nothing else." Insularity is nothing new here, nor is obsession. James's heir, the novelist Ward Just, observed last year in "Echo House" that in Washington, "life flourishes on flat surfaces, desks, conference tables, lecterns, dinner tables: an indoor world."
Of course. This is still the hometown of the largest enterprise on earth, the United States Government. And even when the murder rate soared, when nobody plowed the snow or picked up the trash, when the schools couldn't open because the courts said the buildings were unsafe, when the infamous Mayor Marion Berry went to jail on a drug rap, when the voters perversely returned him to office, when Congress seized his power after he devastated the city's finances -- even then Americans flocked to Washington.
To most visitors, all that stuff is irrelevant. They come not to listen to some Claghorn on Capitol Hill or to tut-tut at the hard streets where the city's poor live, not to count the ways the Government falls short of the Founding Fathers' ideals, but to pay homage to the ideals themselves, to keep the ideals alive and try to imbue the kids with them. That is why Washington is thronged several times each year with family groups, shod in their Reeboks, maps in hand, taking in the American dream.
We feel a stir, even the cynics among us, when we see Lincoln up there in his thronelike marble chair, where Daniel Chester French put him 75 years ago, or when we walk up the awesomely broad steps of the Supreme Court, whose very name embodies an absoluteness unheard of in modern life.
I feel it every time the plane glides slowly into National Airport after dark -- Ronald Reagan National Airport, as it is now -- and I catch sight of the familiar monuments all ablaze with light, the Capitol and the White House, too, and the Potomac glistening darkly beneath. If Washington sometimes seems like the world capital of hypocrisy and self-importance, it is also, almost always, a scene of seductive grandeur.
 
Pillars and Porticos
Washington is centered on the Capitol, sited on Jenkins Hill by a grouchy French military engineer named Pierre Charles L'Enfant in 1790. As he laid out a city of broad boulevards that drew its inspiration from Paris, the little slope seemed to him "a pedestal waiting for a monument."
The men who governed the young American Republic that was just then setting up shop here thought of themselves as the political progeny of the ancient Greeks and Romans, so the city is full of pillars and porticos. But only the Capitol has a nine-million-pound cast-iron dome, completed in the midst of the Civil War. Congress meets in this building, the Senate in the north wing and the House of Representatives in the south. Its original sandstone came from Virginia quarries owned by George Washington.
Just down Delaware Avenue from the Capitol stands Union Station, designed by the great Chicago architect Daniel H. Burnham in 1908 and restored to all its magnificence in 1988 by another Chicagoan, Harry Weese, with busy shops and restaurants enlivening the concourse. (Weese, who died this year, also designed the Washington Metro, giving its stations arched and coffered ceilings that lend them the noble air of Roman vaults.)
Washington's four quadrants meet at the Capitol, with numbered streets running north and south from there and lettered streets running east and west. It is the straight, splendid avenues that run on the diagonal, though, that give the city much of its scale and dignity.
Because of laws restricting the height of buildings, plus more than a century of zealous preservation of green spaces, Washington has an airier, less congested feeling than many cities. On a fine spring day, with the cherry, dogwood and redbud trees in bloom, with the immaculate white buildings gleaming in the sun, it can be astonishingly lovely.
 
A Hidden Treasure
If you are here on a day like that, do yourself a favor and walk over to Washington's greatest underdiscovered treasure, the Pension Building, now known as the National Building Museum. The city's most stunning room lurks inside, an immense central court, as long as a football field and pierced by eight redwood-size brick columns, each 76 feet high and 25 feet around. They are bigger than the pillars of the ancient temple at Baalbek in Lebanon.
The Capitol is also one of the city's great outdoor stages. There gala concerts are held on patriotic holidays, and there Presidents take the oath of office every four Januarys. Mostly their words vanish into the chill winds, but sometimes we remember pregnant phrases like F.D.R.'s "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself" from 1933 and J.F.K.'s "Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country" from 1961.
At the far end of the Mall, beyond the obelisk memorializing George Washington, now swathed in scaffolding, and beyond the reflecting pool, and beyond Maya Lin's Vietnam Memorial, a gash in the green lawns that recalls the wound opened by that wretched war, stands the other stage, the Lincoln Memorial. There rallies are held on behalf of the poor or the oppressed.
For members of my generation, it will always be linked with the great oration in which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. foresaw his people "free at last."
 
Where Presidents Dwell
Joined to the Mall by the Ellipse are the grounds of the White House, where Presidents dwell and deal and struggle to lead an often balky country. There you can see Ulysses S. Grant's chandeliers in the East Room, Harry S. Truman's balcony, Gilbert Stuart's famous Washington portrait, rescued from the fire set by the British in 1812 by Dolley Madison herself, and perhaps the network correspondents doing their stand-uppers on the lawn.
But the Mall is more than politics. On it or near it are repositories of American and world history: the National Archives, home of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights and the Emancipation Proclamation; the Library of Congress, the world's largest, with a collection approaching 100 million items, including a Gutenberg Bible, Charlie Chaplin movies, a vast trove of cookbooks, 3.5 million pieces of sheet music and 5 Stradivarius violins; the National Portrait Gallery, the National Air and Space Museum, the National Museum of Natural History, and the National Museum of American History, an attic stuffed with items as big as a 280-ton locomotive and as small as a postage stamp, including Mr. Rogers's cardigan and the Star-Spangled Banner.
Many of the museums are parts of the Smithsonian Institution, the legacy of an Englishman named James Smithson, who died in 1829, leaving his fortune to a city he had never visited to found an organization "for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men." It has grown into the largest museum complex in the world. Anywhere else, any one of these collections would be remarkable. Here they can sometimes become mere entries on a list, in danger of turning into the yadda yadda of a visit to Washington.
The glory of the city's cultural life is its art museums. Our young capital lacks Rome's long history, Paris's sophistication and London's royal traditions, but it can compete on equal terms with those cities, and with New York and Berlin, in the richness of the paintings and sculpture, drawings and prints that have been assembled here over many decades.
 
Whistler's Peacock Room
I particularly like the Freer Gallery, devoted to Asian art, and especially the Peacock Room, flamboyantly decorated in blue and gold by James McNeill Whistler, whom the museum's founder, the Detroit industrialist Charles Lang Freer, saw as the link between the esthetics of East and West. Also the Phillips Collection, once a private mansion, which holds Renoir's masterpiece "Luncheon of the Boating Party" and important groups by two of my modern favorites, Klee and Rothko.
But who would want to miss the Corcoran, with its splendid Hudson River School canvases, or the National Museum of American Art, whose rehung collection spans the range from Hopper's economy of means to Bierstadt's grandiose gestures, or the exquisite pre-Columbian relics housed in Phillip Johnson's deliciously refined little pavilion at Dumbarton Oaks? If you go to the latter, you can collect bonuses in the form of a fine Byzantine collection, housed in the mansion where the groundwork was laid for the United Nations, and the gloriously romantic gardens, designed in the 1920's by Beatrix Ferrand, one of the greatest American landscape architects.
At the summit, of course, stands the National Gallery of Art, endowed by people of unimaginable wealth like Andrew Mellon and his children and Chester Dale and Joseph Widener, and built into a world-class institution by a succession of directors including John Walker, J. Carter Brown and the incumbent, Earl A. Powell 3d, a refreshingly unstuffy soul who is known to almost everyone as Rusty.
 
Calder's Last Mobile
The gallery has two buildings. The first was designed in 1941 by John Russell Pope, whose pared-down neo-classical style left a deep mark on Washington, through the Jefferson Memorial, Constitution Hall and other landmarks. The second is the work of I. M. Pei (1978), a pair of cleanly articulated triangles that house offices, galleries and a vast atrium where Alexander Calder's enormous final mobile twists lazily overhead.
Inside hang the only Leonardo in America, a portrait of Ginevra de Benci; Raphael's "Alba Madonna," van Eyck's "Annunciation," Vermeer's "Girl With the Red Hat" -- all iconic pictures familiar from a thousand posters and a million postcards -- and dozens of other Renaissance and Impressionist gems.
Pei's is one of the city's few significant modern buildings. Washington has nothing by Frank Lloyd Wright or Frank Gehry; by Mies it has only a relatively minor library, supposedly recycled from the plans for a Bacardi factory designed for Havana but never built. Paradoxically, however, the city boasts two of the nation's handsomest airports, Dulles by Eero Saarinen and National by Cesar Pelli, both across the Potomac in Virginia.
The Kennedy Center, designed by Edward Durrell Stone, is an architectural dud and a performing-arts triumph. Leonard Slatkin, its elfin music director, who came from St. Louis, has raised the National Symphony to a new level, and Placido Domingo has done the same for the Washington Opera; both now rank just below the nation's half-dozen best. Visiting orchestras, soloists and dance companies share the stages, which also house touring plays. The American Film Institute screens movie classics.
A particularly pleasant Kennedy Center innovation is a nightly free concert before the main events begin. Designed to draw into the center people who could probably not afford tickets, these widely diverse events are financed by its chairman, James Johnson, and his wife, Maxine Isaacs.
There is music and theater all over town. Institutions as diverse as Dumbarton Oaks, the Library of Congress, the National Gallery and the Corcoran all stage first-rate concerts of chamber music. Experimental and more conventional theaters abound, including the Arena Stage, founded by Zelda Fichandler, which has, in fact, three stages. One of the nation's leading regional repertory companies, it is housed in buildings designed by the ubiquitous Harry Weese. Many of its productions eventually go to New York, and it has developed outstanding actors like Robert Prosky.
 
For Some, a Hard Town
Washington is changing. A new Mayor, Anthony Williams, who proved himself a solid if low-key manager as the city's financial czar in recent years, takes office on Jan. 2. Washington has high hopes for him, so high that he says he feels like "everyone's maitre d', expected to deliver service everywhere at once."
Once proudly hailed as "Chocolate City," 70 percent African-American, with a flourishing black commercial and artistic tradition of which Duke Ellington was a notable product, Washington now has fewer blacks, more Asian and Hispanic residents, and a prosperous white minority that plays a pivotal political role. (Mr. Williams, who is black, got only half the black vote in the 1998 primary, which was decisive, but most of the white vote.)
It is still a hard town for some people: those who live in crack-infested neighborhoods, those who sleep in Lafayette Park, near the White House, and those who find the pressure or loneliness too much. One of Washington's most poignant monuments, popularly known as "Grief," is a memorial by Augustus Saint-Gaudens to Clover Adams in Rock Creek Cemetery. Married to Henry Adams -- a famous writer himself, a grandson of John Quincy Adams, a great-grandson of John Adams -- she committed suicide.
 
A Town of Possibilities
But it is a town of possibilities, too. Georgetown University, President Clinton's alma mater, has emerged under its two most recent presidents, the Jesuit priests Timothy S. Healy and Leo O'Donovan, as the nation's premier Catholic university. Howard University is one of the nation's oldest and best historically black colleges. Gallaudet University has long been a world leader in the education of the deaf.
This is a city of small pleasures as much as large thrills. Try a walk or a horseback ride in Rock Creek Park, Washington's bosky answer to the Bois de Boulogne; a visit to the little-noted Churchill statue near Lutyens's monumental British Embassy, or a quiet hour examining Cass Gilbert's Supreme Court Building (1935). I like looking at the Iowa cornstalks that replace acanthus leaves in the "Corinthian" capitals, and at the sculptured portraits on the pediment, including one of the immodest Mr. Gilbert.
Different people are drawn to different things: to the National Zoo, perhaps, or the wonderful Arboretum, to the Pentagon and the many other military installations, to the National Cathedral or the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, to the city's neighborhoods.
Adams-Morgan is one of the funkiest and Cleveland Park one of the pleasantest and Volvo-est, with big frame houses that used to be refuges from the summer heat downtown in the days before air-conditioning. Many of the city's rich live in grand houses on Woodland Drive and in the Kalorama neighborhood.
 
An Ideal Enclave
For me, nothing quite matches Georgetown, which was a modest river port before all the grandees came to town. It is the ideal inner-city residential enclave, leafy and full of red-brick survivors of the Federal period, but also old wooden buildings, intricate remnants from the Victorian era, a few modern houses tucked in here and there and a big French-style mansion where Katharine Graham of The Washington Post lives.
You will best savor Georgetown's flavor and tempo by wandering at random along its narrow streets, past Dumbarton Oaks, to be sure, and Tudor Place, built in 1794 by Dr. William Thornton, the original architect of the Capitol, for Martha Washington's granddaughter, Martha Parke Custis, and her husband, Thomas Peter; but also down N Street, N.W., past John F. Kennedy's onetime house at 3307, perhaps, and one of the most beautiful doorways anywhere at 2812, and Cox Row from 3327 to 3339.
To finish, you could pop into Miller & Arney's antiques shop, a local fixture at Wisconsin and S, or Booked Up, an excellent antiquarian bookshop owned by the author Larry McMurtry and the charming Marcia Carter, across from the Georgetown post office on 31st Street above M.
 
Where Glory, Old and New, Awaits: A Visitor's Guide to the Nation's Capital
 
Here is information about visiting Washington:
 
Where to Stay
 
 FOUR SEASONS, 2800 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., (202) 342-0444. A nondescript brick box on the outside, a festival of fine fabrics and fresh flowers on the inside, this is Washington's premier hotel. The location on the brink of Georgetown and the air of discreet seclusion will cost you dearly, but you won't feel cheated. Political power breakfasts in the Seasons restaurant. Stan Bromley, the manager, ranks among the nation's top hoteliers. Doubles from $199 to $550 on weekends; $380 to $505 weekdays.
 
 WILLARD INTERCONTINENTAL, 1401 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., (202) 628-9100. Designed by Henry J. Hardenbergh, the architect of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, this grand Beaux-Arts pile has stood tall between the White House and Capitol Hill since 1908. Spectacularly opulent lobby, brilliantly restored, and rooms of varying dimensions, occupied by the rich, the famous and the not quite. Doubles from $199 to $440 on weekends; $410 to $470 weekdays.
 
 JEFFERSON HOTEL, 16th and M Street, N.W., (202) 347-2200. Understated, private, this 68-room gem is European in conception and style. Robert Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, who has lived in one of its suites during his six years in the Clinton cabinet, knows what he's doing. Flawless service, and there are few better places for a civilized drink after work. Doubles are $185 on weekends, $310 on weekdays.
 
 RIVER INN, 925 25th Street, N.W., (202) 337-7600. Not for you if you're looking for the dernier cri in interior decoration. But this all-suite hotel, with full kitchens in each apartment, offers clean and spacious accommodation at a bargain price, close to the Metro, Kennedy Center and the State Department, which often uses it for visitors on a tight budget. Doubles from $79 to $99 on weekends; $110 to $165 weekdays.
 
Where to Eat
 
 GERARD'S PLACE, 915 15th Street, N.W., (202) 737-4445. Not so long ago, Gerard Pangaud ran a Paris restaurant that won two stars in the Guide Michelin. After rocky passages in New York and Virginia, he has pitched up in an understated room near the White House. As ever, his food is sterling. Prime seasonal ingredients, impeccably cooked, sound simple on the menu but dance a merry tune on the palate. Try lobster with sauternes sauce.
 
 INN AT LITTLE WASHINGTON, Main and Middle Streets, Washington, Va., (540) 675-3800. Self-taught, Patrick O'Connell applies modern French technique to Virginia ingredients like oysters and country ham, with world-beating results. Reinhardt Lynch has molded one of the country's best wait staffs from a group of charming youngsters who, like the inn, grew up in the shadow of the Blue Ridge, an hour and a half west of big Washington. Hire a car and driver for the trip, or spend the night in one of the pasha-worthy bedrooms.
 
 KINKEAD'S, 2000 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., (202) 296-7700. Confession time: This is my local, where I eat at least once a week when I'm in town. It's also the city's best restaurant, a showcase for Bob Kinkead's talent, honed in his native New England. No one, anywhere, serves better fried clams, but that's just a start; the menu zooms giddily but confidently from Thai fish soup to salmon in a dill-scented broth, Scandinavian style. The wine list is equally catholic, and there's subtle jazz downstairs at night.
 
 LESPINASSE, Sheraton Carlton Hotel, 923 16th Street N.W., (202) 879-6900. An offshoot of the New York gastronomic shrine of the same name, this place never quite made it the first time around. Now comes Sandro Gamba, a 28-year-old protege of Alain Ducasse, to push it near the top of the Washington heap in his first weeks in charge. Feeling fancy? Perfectly grilled scallops accented with sea-urchin roe should do you. Feeling plain? The poached guinea hen with Napa cabbage in herb bouillon is a little masterpiece. Sparkling room in the grand old fashion, solicitous French service, great wines.
 
 OBELISK, 2029 P Street, N.W., (202) 872-1180. Peter Pastan isn't Italian, but his sensibility is. Every day he offers a market-based menu with two or three choices at each stage, each full of fresh, unaffected goodness. Served in a little room with lean blond decor, the food is complemented by outstanding Italian wines, many little-known here, and knee-buckling grappas.
 
 PESCE, 2016 P Street, N.W., (202) 466-3474. No reservations, harsh lighting, sometimes harried if always warm-hearted service, Formica tables, but who cares when the fish is this good? Order something French or Italian from the blackboard, in keeping with the restaurant's parentage, or something American-fried. And look around; the clientele is diverse and fascinating.
 
 VIDALIA, 1990 M Street, N.W, (202) 659-1990. A celebration of Washington's Southern roots, Vidalia serves flavor-packed grits and pork chops that will make you forget their humble origins. In season, the chef Jeffrey Bubin's trademark baked sweet Vidalia onion is a savory revelation. The dining room, tucked into an office-building basement, feels warm and sunny anyway.
 
Attractions
 
 ARENA STAGE, 1101 Sixth Street, S.W., (202) 488-3300. This weekend, "Thunder Knocking on the Door" and previews of "The Faraway Nearby." Tickets: $45 to $24.
 
 DUMBARTON OAKS, 1703 32d Street, N.W., Georgetown, (202) 339-6401. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 2 to 5 P.M.; suggested contribution: $1. Garden hours: Daily, 2 to 5 P.M.; free. Both closed on Dec. 24 and 25.
 
 FREER GALLERY, Jefferson Drive at 12th Street S.W., (202) 357-4880. Daily, 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Free.
 
 JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 2700 F Street, N.W., (800) 444-1324. This weekend, the National Symphony Orchestra Pops with Rosemary Clooney, in the Concert Hall, tickets, $13 to $65; the Stanislavsky Ballet performs "The Nutcracker," in the Opera House, $25 to $70; "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day," in the Theater Lab, $10. Free concerts daily on the Millennium Stage.
 
 NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM, 401 F Street N.W., (202) 272-2448. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 4 P.M. Free.
 
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, Constitution Avenue, N.W., between Third and Seventh Streets, (202) 737-4215. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Closed on Dec. 25 and Jan. 1. Free. Advance tickets for the current van Gogh exhibition are sold out, but free same-day passes are available.
 
 NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART, Eighth and G Streets, N.W., (202) 633-8998. Daily, 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Closed on Dec. 25. Free.
 
 PHILLIPS COLLECTION, 1600 21st Street, N.W., (202) 387-2151. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays to 8:30 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 7 P.M. Admission for the "Impressionists in Winter" show, which includes museum admission: $10; $7 for students and the elderly. Museum admission only, Tuesdays through Fridays, is a voluntary donation; Saturdays and Sundays, $6.50; $3.25 for students and the elderly.
 
 NATIONAL ZOO, 3001 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., (202) 673-4800. Buildings are open daily, 10 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; grounds are open daily 6 A.M. to 6 P.M. Closed on Dec. 25. Free.
 
 NATIONAL ARBORETUM, 3501 New York Avenue, N.E., (202) 245-2726. Grounds are open daily, 8 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Administration Building, daily, 9 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Closed on Dec. 25. Free.
 
Getting There
 
 BY TRAIN. Amtrak, (800) 872-7245. A one-way ticket from New York to Washington ranges from $62 to $77 for an unreserved seat; $68 to $85 for a reserved seat; $114 for the Metroliner.
 
 BY AIR. Round-trip fares on Delta, (800) 221-1212, United, (800) 241-6522, and US Airways, (800) 428-4322, range from $110 to $170, depending when tickets are purchased.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
The On the Road column in Weekend yesterday about visiting Washington misspelled the surname of a former mayor there. He is Marion Barry, not Berry.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Washington's red-brick enclave: A narrow Georgetown street in late autumn. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. E35); Alexander Calder's final mobile hangs in the East Wing atrium of the National Gallery of Art. (Shana Raab for The New York Times); Detail of the frieze that runs around the National Building Museum. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. E44)
 
Map of Washington, D.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (92%); 

CITY: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (59%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC) ; UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (92%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS WRITERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); OFFICE FURNITURE (69%); MURDER (63%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); CRIME RATES (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR JOHN F KENNEDY (70%); MARION BERRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



259 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E;Part 2;Page 40;Column 1;Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 4693 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE

 BODY:
Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York City museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free.
* denotes a highly recommended show.
 
Museums 

 * "EDGAR DEGAS, PHOTOGRAPHER," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Jan. 3). Degas's art epitomizes what Yeats once called "the fascination with what's difficult." This show, the first devoted to his photographs, includes nearly every photograph by him that survives, 40 in all, most from 1895 or thereabouts. Much of what we see, which at first may look straightforward, after a while reveals itself to be surprisingly complex and psychologically odd. Degas's sister died in 1895. His friend Evariste de Valernes was about to die. Perhaps this partly explains the pictures' frequently weird aura and ghostly imagery. It was precisely the nature of Degas's unorthodox genius to exploit photography, an emblem of the age of positivism, a mechanical process ostensibly reflecting the world exactly as it was, as a medium for pictures of such peculiar ineffability. Hours: Fridays and Saturdays, 9:30 A.M. to 8:45 P.M.; Sundays, and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 A.M. to 5:15 P.M. Admission: $8; $4, students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).
 
 * "FROM VAN EYCK TO BRUEGEL: EARLY NETHERLANDISH PAINTINGS AT THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART," Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Jan. 17). A patch of heaven has touched down in Manhattan. This dream of a show is exactly what it says it is: a display of more than a hundred 15th- and 16th-century Flemish paintings representing the bulk of the Met's impressive holdings. Long-hidden pieces have been pulled from storage, and familiar works have been brought together from throughout the museum. And the big news is also old news: the unrivaled genius of the Netherlandish artists and the inventive vitality of a culture that saw the natural and the supernatural worlds as mirror images. Hours and admission: See above (Holland Cotter).
 
 * "MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE HERMITAGE AND PUSHKIN MUSEUMS," Pierpont Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Jan. 10). This could not fail to be a remarkable exhibition. The collections now in the Hermitage in St. Petersburg were initiated by Catherine the Great in ways and on a scale that could not be paralleled today. Included are examples of Poussin, Rubens, van Dyck, Primaticcio and Holbein the Elder. There had also been true collectors in Moscow, whose good drawings finally ended up in the Pushkin Museum, including the work of Carpaccio, Rubens, Guido Reni, Parmigianino and Caspar David Friedrich. But the show is not a parade of Old Master drawings that quietly peters out: it ends by turning an important corner in the history of art, and this includes Matisse's lyrical initial watercolor sketch for "Bathers by a River." Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Fridays 10 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Saturdays, 10:30 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 6 P.M. Admission: $7; $5, students and the elderly (John Russell).
 
 MARCEL ODENBACH, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Jan. 3). Mr. Odenbach is a German video artist well regarded in Europe. His six video installations here address matters of global politics to visually enervating and oppressively didactic effect. One monitor, mounted on a grid of drinking glasses symbolizing political precariousness, plays tapes of a candlelight ceremony at the dismantling of the Berlin wall; images of marching Nazis fleetingly emerge. Hours: Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 P.M.; Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 P.M. Admission: $5; $3, students, artists and the elderly (Ken Johnson).
 * JACKSON POLLOCK, Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53d Street, (212) 708-9400 (through Feb. 2). A landmark. If you care about art, you live for exhibitions like this, in which an artist, against the heavy odds of his skewed talent and unhinged personality, pursued something so wild, untested and mysterious that its full meaning was unclear even to him, yet who, briefly, wrung from his peculiar system of painting one variation after another. Pollock was a quintessential American because of his aspiration to make something from what seemed like nothing. Sometimes he botched the results, but this was intrinsic to a process that consciously flirted with incoherence: accidents, on which his art depended, had to be held in tension with acts of extreme control, and the exhibition is instructive, among other reasons, for letting you see some of his failures, which by contrast clarify his successes. His biggest triumphs, the classic paintings from 1950, "Autumn Rhythm," "No. 32" and "One," are hung together here so that you can scan them by swiveling your head 180 degrees. It's an amazing sight. Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays, and Thursdays, 10:30 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Fridays, to 8:30 P.M. Admission; $12.50; $9.50 students and the elderly (Kimmelman).
 
 * "RENDEZVOUS: MASTERPIECES FROM THE CENTRE GEORGES POMPIDOU AND THE GUGGENHEIM MUSEUMS," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 24). With its landmark Paris home under renovation, the cream of the Pompidou collection has hit the road, joining forces with the Guggenheim's in an unusual, perhaps unprecedented exhibition that fills the Fifth Avenue building to the brim. The familiar story of modernism is told, but in contrasting voices and with a cornucopia of unfamiliar works and telling juxtapositions. Not to be missed. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 8 P.M. Admission: $12; $7, students and the elderly (Roberta Smith).
 
 * "ROYAL PERSIAN PAINTINGS: THE QAJAR EPOCH, 1785-1925," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 24). Think "Persian painting" and what comes to mind? Small illuminated miniatures with diminutive landscapes and teensy figures. But the Qajar emperors thought big. They liked their portraits life-size, their battle scenes Cinemascopic. Even their collectibles -- lacquered boxes, gilded enamels -- have a trumpeting, clear-the-way flair, like props in a Handel opera. This extraordinary show is the first major Western survey of a self-promotional dynastic art of almost hallucinatory strangeness and brilliance. It holds many surprises, none more mesmerizing than the power portraits of the ruler Fath Ali Shah: with his dainty, high-heeled slippers, extravagant beard and Napoleonic hauteur, he projects a preposterous, inimitable glamour. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. (until 11 P.M. on the first Saturday of the month); Sundays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission: $4; $2, children 12 and up; $1.50, the elderly (Cotter).
 
 * "SACRED ARTS OF HAITIAN VODOU," American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, (212) 769-5100 (through Jan. 3). The 500 objects in this exhibition -- shimmering, sequined flags, plaster Madonnas, medicine packets wrapped like Christmas gifts, miniature coffins, carved wooden drums -- weave African, European and indigenous New World influences together in an art of visceral excitement and disquieting beauty. The installation is expertly organized. It begins with paintings depicting the growth of Vodou among African slaves in the Caribbean. (The show avoids the Anglicized voodoo, with its history of racist associations, in favor of the Creole Vodou.) And it concludes with three big, glamorous, assemblage-style altars that catch the essence of what this religion is: a magnificent, spiritual tour de force. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 A.M. to 5:45 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 8:45 P.M. Admission: $8; $6, students and the elderly; $4.50, children (Cotter).
 
 * "VICTORIAN FAIRY PAINTING," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Jan. 17). Lewis Carroll once counted 165 fairies in "The Quarrel of Oberon and Titania," by a Scottish artist named Joseph Noel Paton, much admired by Queen Victoria. That's 165 naked women in a single painting. Yet, we are told, the British never acknowledged the erotic thrust of their fairy paintings. There are some good pictures in this exhibition and one great one, Richard Dadd's "Fairy Feller's Master Stroke." Dadd murdered his father, fled to France, was caught and was committed in 1844 to the British lunatic asylum known as Bedlam, where he spent most of the rest of his life painting in a hyper-precise narrative style that reached its apogee in his insect's-eye view of Lilliputian figures, the fairy populace of his mind, watching a woodcutter split a hazelnut. Dadd always declined to explain the scene, which has about it a particular hallucinatory and vaguely menacing quality. The blade of the woodcutter's ax is conspicuously left unpainted. Dadd killed his father by stabbing him to death. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 6 P.M. Admission: $7; $5, students and the elderly; no children under 10 (Kimmelman).
 
 ANDY WARHOL, "Shadows," Dia Center for the Arts, 548 West 22d Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-5566 (through June 13). An installation of 60 paintings from the artist's 102-panel "Shadows" cycle circumvent a large square gallery like repeating outtakes from a Franz Kline painting, or a gigantic length of abstract film. With their velvety blacks and flashes of color, they are as mysterious, alluring and glamorous as any of Warhol's Liz or Marilyn images, and form a dead-pan homage to his immediate precursors, the Abstract Expressionists. The anxiety of influence moves in mysterious ways. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 P.M. Admission: $4; $2, students and the elderly (Smith)
 
Galleries: Uptown
 
 * ARSHILE GORKY, "Paintings and Drawings 1929-1942," Gagosian, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through Jan. 9). This small, museum-quality show makes an excellent companion to the Pollock retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art. Here we see Gorky still working mostly in Picasso's shadow but beginning to discover -- in "Garden in Sochi," for example, a delicate, surrealistic mindscape from 1942 -- the gravitationally liberated space and elegant line that characterize his great works of the mid-1940's (Johnson).
 
 * SIGMAR POLKE, "New Paintings, Printing Mistakes," Michael Werner Gallery, 21 East 67th Street, (212) 988-1623 (through Jan. 16). This German painter is a major artist who has never really taken off in the United States. He's an antimastery master who produces a post-epiphany, post-ego painting, an impure hybrid that mixes ideas and formal ploys like so many chemical additives. His works preserve a tradition, and they also turn it into something else. That something else can be sampled in this show of two dozen strange, beautiful, sort-of-abstract new paintings based partly on newspaper misprints (Cotter).
 
Galleries: 57th Street
 
 ROSS BLECKNER, Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 752-2929 (through Dec. 19). The uptown segment of a two-gallery exhibition shows the artist continuing to cultivate a dazzling new painting technique that is responsible for the relatively impressive paintings in the show's downtown half in SoHo. Here, he seems to have shifted into overproduction, adding pleasing color and a surface slickness that pushes the abstract toward the Photo Realist (Smith).
 
 LAURENT DE BRUNHOFF, "Babar in Process," Mary Ryan Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 397-0669 (through Dec. 24). More than 70 studies for various books about the lovable elephant Babar. Though aimed at children, there is a visual magic, emotional resonance and epic sweep to the Babar stories that is still engaging for grown-ups. It's fascinating to see how Mr. de Brunhoff works through painterly sketches, pencil drawings and finished watercolors toward final images that seem effortlessly achieved (Johnson).
 
 ANTON HEYBOER, Baron/Boisante, 50 West 57th Street, (212) 581-9191 (through Dec. 23). Nine esoteric etchings and three drawings, dating from 1957 to 1980, by a famously eccentric Dutch artist who lives reclusively on a farm with four wives. His works, based on a personal mystical system represented by lines and numbers, are raw, unintelligible amalgams of pattern, figures, diagrams, scribbling and writing (Johnson).
 
Galleries: SoHo
 
 ROSS BLECKNER, Lehmann Maupin, 39 Greene Street, (212) 965-0753 (through Dec. 19). The downtown segment of a two-gallery exhibition includes big, beautiful grisaille abstractions whose strikingly optical cell-like patterns (a result of careful use of an airbrush) count as some of the most convincing images Mr. Bleckner has made. The artist's political conscience has been relegated to a series of high-minded photo appropriations that seem about 20 years too late (Smith).
 
 JEFF BURTON, Casey Kaplan Gallery, 48 Greene Street, (212) 226-6131 (through Dec. 19). Sex, death and immortality -- Hollywood-style -- are the subjects of Mr. Burton's apparently ultra-casual, often obliquely-angled photographs: adjacent knees from two different bodies suggest sexual coupling; a cemetery looms; a celebrity name is enshrined in a sidewalk. This is the Los Angeles artist's best New York show so far (Cotter).
 
 * "WILLEM DE KOONING: DRAWING SEEING/SEEING DRAWING," the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166; "Willem de Kooning: Drawings and Sculpture," Matthew Marks Gallery, 523 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-0200, and Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 79th Street, (212) 744-7400 (all through Dec. 19). These three shows don't pretend to add up to a survey of de Kooning's drawings, but they have fine stuff and lots of it: high-spirited warm-ups for paintings, ultra-refined finished pieces, all manner of glorious doodles. The Drawing Center show is thematically the most coherent and includes a series of fascinating Crucifixions. The other shows highlight links between drawings and sculptures, of which several are on view. It's great to have all this coincide with the Pollock retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art (Cotter).
 
 KIM DINGLE, Sperone Westwater, 142 Greene Street, (212) 431-6835 (through Dec. 19). This Los Angeles artist, known for paintings and sculptures featuring malevolent schoolgirls and toddlers called Prisses, is making her subjects behave themselves, and the shift from truly nasty to just naughty indicates that her work is formally pallid and unadventurous. Best is an installation in which two Prisses break through a plaster wall like Supergirl-cherubs, but even that wouldn't be out of place in a Christmas store window on Fifth Avenue (Smith).
 
 "GRAHAM GILLMORE AND KENNETH GOLDSMITH: WHOSE WORDS?," Dorsky Gallery, 379 West Broadway, near Broome Street, (212) 966-6170 (through Dec. 23). A number of young artists are using language as a primary visual element in their work, treading the line between art and poetry, and two such figures are well paired in this show. The hand-cut paper words in Mr. Goldsmith's "Fidget Drawings" are taken from a taped performance piece in which the artist described every physical movement he made in a 12-hour day. Mr. Gillmore inserts quotations from romance novels, popular music and his own writing into his paintings (Cotter).
 
 KAREN GUNDERSON, "Kings," Donahue/ Sosinski Art, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-1111 (through Dec. 19). Five kings from history who score high in social or esthetic consciousness are the subject of Ms. Gunderson's all-black paintings, which make skilled technical use of black as a medium for painting light. Cleverly modulating her brush strokes to produce Stygian darknesses and silver-gray luminosities, she dwells on the aspect of each king that strikes her as most worthy. Christian X of Denmark is shown on horseback wearing a giant six-pointed star, a salute to his helping to rescue Danish Jews from the Nazis. Ms. Gunderson is a fine illustrator, whose cleverly theatrical work is a pleasure to behold (Grace Glueck).
 
 * KAHN/SELESNICK, "The Circular River: Panoramic Photographs, Siberian Expeditions, 1944-1946," Monique Knowlton, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-2625 (through Jan. 9). Nicholas Kahn and Richard Selesnick produce elaborately staged, faux antique photographs. Each of the 59 pictures from their most recent project is a sepia-toned, six-foot-long panoramic print that purports to document an expedition to Siberia undertaken in the mid-1940's. Together with its lengthy journalistic text, it's a funny, Monty Python-esque parody of the generic scientific adventure narrative (Johnson).
 
 DINH Q. LE, P.P.O.W., 476 Broome Street, (212) 941-8642 (through Dec. 23). Mr. Le, who was born in Vietnam in 1968 and moved to the United States in 1979, creates large, formally and emotionally impressive photographic works by weaving together sliced-up pictures of ancient temples and people killed by the Khmer Rouge. In a Pop-style vein, he has produced a line of deformed baby dolls to protest the wartime use of Agent Orange (Johnson).
 
 SUZANNE McCLELLAND, Paul Kasmin, 74 Grand Street, (212) 219-3219 (through Dec. 31). Paintings mixing verbal grafitti and expressionistic gesturalism. The best part of the show is a grid of two dozen small gouaches based on phrases like "Tit for Tat" or "Checkered Past" that range freely from open and washy to densely marked and layered. Ms. McClelland generates a lot of painterly energy but overall her work has an unfocused, distracted feeling (Johnson).
 
 "MOUSE: AN AMERICAN ICON," Alternative Museum, 594 Broadway, at Houston Street, (212) 966-4444 (through Dec. 19). This selection of works by 24 artists, every one featuring a more or less politicized image of Mickey Mouse, has a few good things in it. In Luis Camnitzer's "Reality Check," a real stuffed mouse has been absurdly equipped with round Mickey ears; John Fawcett's drawn and collaged mixes of pop culture and hallucinogenic Mickeys are dizzyingly complicated; Jaune Quick-to-See Smith's "McFlag," which sports big, round, earlike speakers at each upper corner, is a strident takeoff on Jasper Johns's iconic "Flag" (Johnson).
 
 "PSYCHOARCHITECTURE," Richard Prince and Martin Kippenberger, Anton Kern Gallery, 558 Broadway, near Prince Street, (212) 965-1706 (through Dec. 19). Kippenberger, a German jack-of-all-media artist who died in 1997, favored found materials; Mr. Prince, an American appropriationist fascinated by this country's obsessions, preferred the pre-existing image. This oddly personal display of their photographs reveals a shared interest in what might be called the architectural unconscious, the frayed edges where modernity's failed dream is especially visible. Mr. Kippenberger tended toward details of decaying concrete buildings that resemble his sculpture; Mr. Prince, toward upstate yards and driveways populated only by forlorn basketball hoops and infused with the desolation and dysfunction so familiar to his art (Smith).
 
 SAM REVELES, CRG, 93 Grand Street, (212) 966-4360 (through Dec. 19). Paintings in which Old Masterism and new abstraction are dissonantly layered. Mr. Reveles begins each work with a pale, unfinished pastiche of Italian Primitive, Renaissance or Indian painting, over which he paints dense, scribbly passages that almost completely obliterate the underlying imagery. At this point, the relationship between the two modes seems more frustrated than fruitful (Johnson).
 
 "THE RISK OF EXISTENCE," Phyllis Kind Gallery, 136 Greene Street, (212) 925-1200 (through Dec. 31). A riveting group show of paintings, drawings and prints that range from William Blake to Lisa Yuskavage, with Myron Stout, Francis Bacon and Henry Darger in between. Despite the existential title, form and color are as important as subject matter, and the installation carefully links each work to its neighbors in unexpected, illuminating ways. Best of show is a hard call, but Jim Nutt's "Pug," a quirky portrait with the concentrated perfection of Northern Renaissance painting, is a strong candidate (Smith).
 
 ALAN UGLOW, Stark Gallery, 113 Crosby Street, (212) 925-4484 (through Dec. 19). A painter of seemingly purist abstractions flirts curiously with content. Mr. Uglow's pristine stripe paintings evoke tennis courts or soccer fields, an association he affirms by installing a neat little shed and bench for soccer players, complete with soccer commentary broadcast by hidden speakers. There are also photographs of soccer fields and stadiums. It all leaves one confused about what the paintings are supposed to mean (Johnson).
 
 ANDY WARHOL, "Camouflage Paintings," Gagosian Gallery, 136 Wooster Street, (212) 228-2828 (through Jan. 9). Full of optical cheer, the 47 paintings in this double-hung exhibition come in all shapes and sizes, but only one motif. They subject a modest swath of United States Army regulation camouflage to countless changes in color, scale and finally composition, reflecting the approach-avoidance dance with abstraction that dominated Warhol's final years. Their banal origins are never obscured as they move up the scale of visual complexity, but move they do (Smith).
 
Galleries: Chelsea
 
 D-L ALVAREZ, Derek Eller, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 206-6411 (through Dec. 19). Faux paint-by-numbers cartoons: neat, elaborately detailed, blue-lined drawings of birds in bushes or a squirrel caught by a snake, with numbered white areas. The numbers correspond not to colors, but to phrases like "your childhood" or "a dog barks," setting up a poetic tension between the visual and the verbal (Johnson).
 
 WILLIAM COTTON, Silverstein, 520 West 21st Street, (212) 929-4300 (through Dec. 23). Paintings of low-income dwellings -- trailers, high-rise projects, worker housing and the Unabomber's cabin in Montana -- made to look as though they were constructed of candy, gingerbread, cookies and frosting. The tension between grim reality and confectionery fantasy is interesting, but the nondescript way the pictures are painted undermines the impact (Johnson).
 
 JOANNE GREENBAUM, D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22d Street, (212) 352-9460 (through Dec. 23). Ms. Greenbaum's large, abstract oil-on-canvas paintings are a species of line drawings in color on a flat white ground with decorative motifs -- scrolls, meanders, emphatic dots -- brought together in a joyously free-associational way. The result is part of an I-don't-try-that-hard look in 1990's art, an approach that disarms expectations (about capital-A abstract painting, among other things) and keeps the hand, with its graces and hesitations, to the fore (Cotter).
 
 SUZANNE JOELSON, Debs & Co., 529 West 20th Street, (212) 647-7080 (through Dec. 19). Rich, swirly paintings made by staining, puddling, gestural brushwork and, in places, carefully made passages of patterning. A mix of the raw and the visionary, Ms. Joelson's work is like a collision between Jackson Pollock and an Indian miniaturist (Johnson).
 
Other Galleries
 
 "HARRIET CRAIG," Apex, 291 Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 431-5270, (through Dec. 19). See this five-artist show curated by the critic David Rimanelli for Alex Bag's hilarious video recreation of a 1950 melodrama called "Harriet Craig," starring Ms. Bag in the role originally played by Joan Crawford. How works by the other artists -- John Boskovich, Chives Clem, Martha Rosler and Christopher Wool -- relate to the video is hard to say (Johnson).
 
 "JUST RIPE," Smack Mellon Studios, 81 Washington Street, near the Manhattan Bridge, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 834-8761 (through Dec. 20). A lively, uneven show of young artists considered "just ripe" for a major show by its curator, Joan Snyder. Among the better works on display in a sprawling, raw space are sleek, photographic pictures within pictures by Sophia Petrides; small, painterly pictures of flying airliners by Andrea Legge and grotesque, free-standing dresses by Martha Posner. In the basement there's a scary, black-light-illuminated installation collaboratively produced by Kate Dodd, Andrea Reynosa, Kevin Vertrees and David Baskin (Johnson).
 
 JANNIS KOUNELLIS, Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, near Spring Street, West Village, (212) 255-5599 (through Feb. 6). New, huge-scale work by the Italian Arte Povera master. Live starlings flutter in cages hung by meat hooks in front of massive steel plates; antique wooden armoires dangle absurdly by thick ropes from overhead I-beams. His work is grandiose, but Mr. Kounellis's poetic imagination can be charmingly capricious (Johnson).
 
Last Chance
 
 "ROBERT HENRI: AMERICAN ICON," Owen Gallery, 19 East 75th Street, (212) 879-2415 (through tomorrow). Famous as the leader of "The Eight," a group of gritty Realist rebels against the stuffy traditions of academy art around the turn of the century, Robert Henri (1865-1929) was a prolific painter as well as a highly respected teacher. This show of more than 30 works touches on the wide range of his subjects, from family portraits to landscapes here and abroad. If Henri was not the most exciting of painters, he knew how to make his work sparkle and to give it exotic effects. An appealing show (Glueck).
 
 "LETTERS IN GOLD," Ottoman calligraphy from the Sakip Sabanci Collection in Istanbul, Turkey, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Sunday). Words are everywhere in Islamic art, and they are the essence of this quietly glamorous show. In the 70 illuminated books, scrolls and wall plaques, drawn from the premier private collection of such material in Turkey, verses from the Koran and imperial edicts are written in exquisite scripts on burnished paper, framed in painted borders of lapis lazuli and gold, and bound in hand-tooled leather covers. One could take the results purely as visual spectacle, but the history of the Turkish calligraphic tradition, passed from master to master, is fascinating and worth following. To top it off, the Met has provided a persuasively atmospheric installation. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).
 
 * HENRI MATISSE, C&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020 (through tomorrow). Celebrated as one of the 20th century's greatest painters, Matisse (1869-1954) also produced some daringly innovative sculpture. Breaking with centuries of European tradition, he viewed sculpture not in pictorial terms but as self-referential, i.e., it should not express anything but its substance, existing as a process rather than a representation. Paring down heads to their essence, shaping bodies by means of rhythmic forms, incorporating stylized elements of African art, he freed his work from the traditional European emphasis on anatomical credibility, exerting a crucial influence on 20th-century sculpture (Glueck).
 
 MARCEL ODENBACH, Goethe Institute, 1014 Fifth Avenue, at 82d Street, (212) 439-8700 (through tomorrow). Engaging drawings from the mid-1970's by the German video artist. A cartoon of a piece of Swiss cheese is captioned: "The comparison between me and a block of cheese is wholly inappropriate" (Johnson).
 
 * ED RUSCHA, Richard Gray, 1018 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 472-8787 (through tomorrow). No one confounded the verbal and the visual with more economically inventive wit during the 1960's and 70's than Ed Ruscha. This show gives a good account of that period. "Eye Infection" (1967) is spelled out in illusionistic ribbon; the medium is gunpowder. In "Faith" (1972), modernistic letters are cut in white out of a dark red, Rothko-esque space, setting up an understated collision between Romanticism and irony (Johnson).

CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A listing in the Art Guide column of Weekend yesterday for "Harriet Craig," a group show through Dec. 19 at Apex, 291 Church Street in TriBeCa, misspelled the given name of an artist. He is Chivas Clem, not Chives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Van Eyck's "Crucifixion" panel, in the Met's Netherlandish show.
(Metropolitan Museum of Art); A large detail of one of the 47 paintings from Andy Warhol's "Camouflage" series on view at the Gagosian Gallery in SoHo.
(Rob McKeever/Gagosian Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); PAINTING (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); LIBRARIES (61%); 

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



260 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 11, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Positive Energy for Mideast Politics;
Pipeline May Carry Egyptian Gas to an Energy-Hungry Israel

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 10

 BODY:
An Egyptian gas pipeline is snaking its way east across the Sinai desert, laying the groundwork for a regional power network that could bind Israel closer to its Arab neighbors and radically change its energy and security strategy.
By directly fueling electric power plants, as its builders intend, the Sinai pipeline would end Israel's dependence on sources a continent or more away for vital energy imports. Israeli officials agree that the Egyptian connection would be the easiest and cheapest way to satisfy spiraling domestic power demands. 
 But before concluding a deal, the two countries must overcome intense mutual mistrust. Egypt has irked Israel by linking progress on gas sales to the Palestinian peace talks, and at the moment the pipeline is to stop 25 miles short of the Israeli border.
"These decisions should be made on purely economic grounds, and economically the Egyptian project is best," said Natan Sharansky, Israel's Minister of Trade and Industry. "But the Egyptians have wanted to make this a political issue, a way to apply political pressure."
Ahmed Maher el-Said, Egypt's Ambassador to the United States, said in a telephone interview that Egypt wants the project to succeed. "If it is a question of a guarantee that the supply of gas would continue without political vetoes, this could be done with a statement of intent," he said. "It does make good business sense. To me, it seems like this is a go situation."
The new pipeline -- originating in Nile Delta gas fields and paralleling the Sinai's northern Mediterranean shore -- is now being built by a 50-50 partnership between the state-owned Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation and the giant Italian conglomerate ENI, a developer of Egypt's 40 trillion cubic feet of natural gas reserves. Within two years gas is expected to begin coursing through the 36-inch-diameter, 150-mile-long pipeline to what is now its official destination: El Arish, an isolated Sinai beach town just west of Israel and the Palestinian-administered Gaza Strip.
The Egyptian Government has not yet made a formal offer for a long-term supply deal. And Israel says only that it is "currently considering the option" of buying the gas from Egypt.
But the builders are banking on a deal: The scale and trajectory of the project make it clear that Israel is the pipeline's viable market, and ENI does not disguise its expectation that the pipeline will extend well beyond El Arish. Already, ENI has signed an agreement in principle to supply gas to the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip, and company plans show the pipeline continuing to Israel's three main coastal power plants. "This is a natural start for a system that could extend throughout the region," Enzo Viscusi, an ENI spokesman in Rome, said. "It has great implications."
The northern Sinai project represents the revival -- but this time with contracts, cash and backhoes -- of the "peace pipeline" idea discussed by Egypt and Israel in the afterglow of the Oslo peace accords five years ago. The proposal foundered with the chilling of Israeli-Arab relations after the Likud Government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu came to power in 1996 and put the old Labor Government's assumptions on the peace process under review.
Egypt was unwilling to proceed with big cross-border business deals unless Israel continued withdrawing from Palestinian territories as required by the Oslo land-for-security plan. Israel was infuriated, saying its negotiations with Palestinians should have no bearing on negotiations for gas contracts.
In recent months, a flurry of deal-making and ditch-digging resuscitated the pipeline, at a cost estimated by ENI at more than $200 million, just as President Clinton's Wye Plantation mediation effort led to the resumption of Israeli pullbacks from the West Bank. Mr. Clinton is to arrive in Israel on Saturday night for further talks.
"The situation today is that the Government of Israel wants to buy the gas, and we are waiting for a decision from Egypt to sell us the gas," said Yosef Maiman, president of the Merhav Group, an Israeli energy contractor.
Six months ago, the Egyptian Petroleum Minister, Hamdi el-Banbi, declared that Egypt's commercial gas producers would be permitted to export to Israel, and expressed hope that political obstacles could be resolved. The Israeli Government says it wants that policy stated more formally and emphatically.
The "formal consent and commitment of the Government of Egypt is a prerequisite for a natural gas supply agreement," Israel's Ministry of National Infrastructure said in a statement. "This is required because of the linkage made in the past, by the Government of Egypt, between the commercial negotiations and the political situation."
Yet to Egypt, the two issues are inextricably related as "a matter of the general political context in the Arab world," according to Ambassador Said. "If the implementation of the Wye agreement proceeds," he said, "the project's possibility of proceeding is greatly enhanced. If Wye doesn't proceed, it will truly be difficult."
In October, the ENI board chairman, Guglielmo Moscato, signed a provisional agreement in Ramallah with the Palestinian Authority leader, Yasir Arafat, to supply gas to the Gaza Strip. Mr. Moscato said the agreement would allow the new pipeline to "cross the Egyptian border" and fuel Gaza power plants. He called it "the first real step toward the implementation of the so-called peace pipeline project, which ENI has been studying for years."
As ENI acknowledges, however, a gas-supply arrangement with the Palestinian Authority cannot be concluded without the approval and technical cooperation of Israel, which controls the Egyptian-Gaza border.
A power plant of the size ENI has discussed building for Gaza would use no more than a tenth of the pipeline's planned capacity of seven billion cubic meters a year, according to industry estimates.
But in Israel, fast-rising power demands combined with environmental and budgetary considerations have led to official forecasts of natural gas imports of four billion cubic meters a year by 2005 and 12 billion by 2015, the Infrastructure Ministry said.
At the same time, recent gas discoveries have tripled Egypt's proved reserves and export potential. Sales to Israel of four billion cubic meters a year could, even at today's depressed prices, earn Egypt as much as $300 million annually, representing a fivefold increase in exports to Israel. "This type of interdependence should be encouraged," said Mr. Maiman, whose company's 20 percent share of a $1.2 billion Alexandria oil refinery makes it the largest Israeli investor in Egypt.
Flanked by nations that were the world's leading oil producers but also its declared enemies, Israel long ago forged alternative relationships with the biggest non-OPEC exporters, Norway and Mexico. It also bought crude oil through intermediaries on costly spot markets, and imported coal from South Africa and Colombia.
After the Camp David accords were signed in 1979, Egypt joined the ranks of Israel's suppliers, and is now providing up to a fifth of Israel's oil imports, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. But because of the refusal of most Arab countries to sell to Israel directly, and its own fears that overland supplies could easily be cut by terrorists or the producers, Israel has never had working pipeline connections to any of its energy-producing neighbors.
Israel needs to make decisions soon. Electricity consumption is rising fast, and its coal-fired power plants are casting a pall of particulates over coastal towns and beaches. Natural gas is cleaner than most alternatives, and, here in the Middle East, marginally cheaper. With energy prices at a 25-year low, this is a propitious time to negotiate supply contracts.
Late last month, the Infrastructure Ministry postponed until next year a self-imposed December 1998 deadline for plans on importing natural gas, expanding electrical generating capacity, and possibly converting existing plants to gas from coal. The ministry has also proposed huge gas-fired desalination plants to satisfy demands for drinkable water in the Gaza Strip.
The ministry said it was having exploratory talks with four unnamed suppliers of liquefied gas, though it would be priced higher than piped Egyptian gas and requires the construction of a $600 million-plus marine terminal and regasification plant.
At stake are billions of dollars in fuel and construction contracts. These decisions are in turn dictated by long-term strategic considerations. Though the Sinai pipeline alone could satisfy Israel's demand for gas over the next decade, Israeli officials say they favor a mix of sources, including liquefied gas from Turkmenistan shipped through Turkey, an increasingly close military ally. "It is not good for us to be totally dependent on one pipeline," Mr. Sharansky said.
Another Sinai gas pipeline is being planned. The Amoco Corporation, which is being acquired by British Petroleum, signed agreements in November with Egypt and Jordan to build a smaller-capacity pipeline across the Sinai, under the Gulf of Aqaba from the Egyptian port of Taba, and continuing to Amman and beyond. Nile Delta gas should begin flowing to Jordan in 2001, through a $400 million Amoco joint venture there with Tractebel of Belgium, said Robert Clark, an Amoco spokesman in London.
"This is not the peace pipeline, but rather a discrete project to provide gas to supply Jordan's energy needs into the 21st century," Mr. Clark said. "I don't want to preclude the possibility that this could develop into a wider regional distribution system, but that is a consideration for the future."
Yet Jordan's energy demands could eventually include producing surplus electricity for Israel, under the terms of a recent agreement between the two countries. New transmission lines across the Jordan River and systems to unite the adjoining electricity grids are almost completed, Israel reports. Israel's electricity demands are about 10 times greater than Jordan's, and Jordan already has the advantage of connections to Saudi pipelines.
Jordan and Egypt are also unifying their electricity grids, with a new power cable under the Red Sea.
And both Amoco and ENI have had continuing conversations with Israeli energy officials about supplying gas.
"There have been discussions for some time about the possibility of exporting gas via the eastern Mediterranean coast to the Palestinian Authority and to Israel, and those discussions are still continuing," Mr. Clark said.
Egyptian authorities and the pipeline's developers have also discussed building a power plant on Egyptian territory near Gaza and exporting electricity to both Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Israeli officials say they would not necessarily oppose the proposal if Egypt provided long-term supply guarantees, and if Palestinian power lines remained part of the Israeli grid -- an insurance policy against sabotage or diplomatic reprisals.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Dec. 11 about the construction of an Egyptian pipeline that may transport gas to Israel misattributed remarks about the project. The Egyptian Embassy in Washington says the comments, in a telephone interview, were made not by Ambassador Ahmed Maher El-Said but by another Egyptian diplomat, whom it has declined to identify. An E-mail message about the error was relayed from the writer to an editor who was ill, delaying this correction.

GRAPHIC: Photos: If mistrust can be overcome, regional energy needs can be met. An Egyptian bulldozer near Port Said prepares the route for a gas pipeline. (Mohamed el-Dakhakhny for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Guglielmo Moscato, chairman of ENI, left, with Yasir Arafat, Gianni Bonetti and Mohammed Nashashibi, the Palestinian finance chief. (ENI)(pg. C19)
 
Graphs: "Dependent on Imports" shows total energy consumption, total electricity generation and net oil imports, for Israel, Egypt and Jordan, for 1996. (Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENI (BIT) (85%); E (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); NILE RIVER (72%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORP; ENI ENI SPA (85%); EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORP (65%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORP; ENI ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; EGYPT; NILE RIVER; MIDDLE EAST; ; EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); NILE RIVER (72%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PIPELINES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR TZIPORA LIVNI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998



261 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Surprisingly Strong And Producer Prices Fall Again

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11

 BODY:
Despite weak demand for cold-weather merchandise, retail sales were stronger than expected in November, a sign that consumers felt comfortable about the economy as the holiday season began.
Another report today showed that producer prices fell in November. 
 "We're heading out of '98 and into '99 on a very strong growth track with very low inflation," said Lyle Gramley, a former Federal Reserve governor and now an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America in Washington.
The Commerce Department said retail sales rose six-tenths of 1 percent in November, the fourth consecutive monthly increase.
In October, sales rose 1.2 percent. Analysts had expected the November report to show no change.
Although sales of warm clothes and other winter items have been weak because of abnormally warm temperatures, today's retail report suggested stores will still have an acceptable holiday season.
The Labor Department said that producer prices -- prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers -- fell two-tenths of 1 percent last month as energy costs retreated and food prices registered their biggest drop in more than a year. It was the biggest decline since August, when prices fell four-tenths of 1 percent, and essentially offset the October increase of two-tenths of 1 percent.
There are signs that some consumers are nervous. The University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment, released today, fell in December to 100.7 from 102.7 in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION (73%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS RETAIL SALES (93%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (56%); MORTGAGE BANKING (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



262 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Rallies to Vote On Shift in Political Status

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Dec. 11

 BODY:
On a balmy evening this week, the caravan of dozens of cars snaking around the working-class neighborhoods of Carolina, a city east of here, brought its deafening honking, sirens, music and shouts of "Equality for Puerto Rico!" right to Jose Manuel Molina's doorstep. Mr. Molina, 65, and his wife, Blanca, 61, rushed out of the house and began hollering, in delight.
"Number 3! Number 3!" they yelled, referring to a pro-statehood ballot measure that is one of five options in a referendum on Sunday on Puerto Rico's political status. 
 In decades of voting for the pro-statehood party, Mr. Molina said, this is the first time he feels Puerto Rico has a real possibility of joining the union as a state.
"This is not for us but for our youth and our children," said the retired telephone repairman, who has 3 children and 15 grandchildren.
"This is for them," Mrs. Molina agreed. "It will bring better jobs and schools. We'll learn more languages. There will be stricter laws, more order."
Sunday's vote, the subject of heated campaigning that ended today with big rallies in the San Juan metropolitan area, is a bid by the administration of Gov. Pedro J. Rossello to measure the island's support for statehood and prod Congress into authorizing a future binding vote on statehood here.
The House this year passed a bill that would have allowed a federally sponsored referendum on Puerto Rico's status this year, which marks the 100th anniversary of the takeover of Puerto Rico by the United States from Spain after the Spanish-American War. But the proposal stalled in the Senate.
Both members of Congress and Clinton Administration officials say the results of Sunday's vote would be viewed as a serious indication of which political status option Puerto Ricans prefer -- independence, statehood or some other form of association with the United States. The vote is likely to start a new legislative process in Washington to seek a final status choice.
Puerto Ricans remain at odds over whether to cement their ties with the United States with statehood or seek more autonomy, but most are united in holding on to three elements of their identity -- Spanish language, Latin American culture and American citizenship. Congress, in turn, is sharply divided over whether to accept Puerto Rico as a possible state, and previous bills on self-determination have bogged down on questions about the political, cultural and economic cost of incorporating an island with 3.8 million Latin Americans as the 51st state.
But a consensus is growing in Washington that Puerto Rico's current commonwealth status, which opponents call a vestige of colonialism and even supporters want modified to give the island more self-governing powers, is a transitional state.
The commonwealth or "free associated state" created in 1952 gives Puerto Ricans here American citizenship but denies them equal rights and obligations. It grants the island self-government in local affairs and subjects it to Federal law, like states. But unlike residents in the states, including Puerto Ricans who live in the mainland, Puerto Ricans on the island do not pay Federal taxes, cannot vote on Federal elections or elect Congressional delegations, and they do not receive Federal benefits comparable to those received on the mainland.
Those who advocate a 51st state say the commonwealth status denies full rights to Puerto Ricans even though they are American citizens. The governing pro-statehood New Progressive Party has crafted the ballot measure as a petition to the United States Government under the First Amendment "to define in a conclusive manner the political condition of the people of Puerto Rico and the extent of United States sovereignty in order to resolve the current territorial problem of the island" after "100 years of political subordination."
Some political analysts here say such language amounts to an exercise of the constitutional right to petition the Federal Government for the redress of grievances, in this case the grievance of colonialism, that gives the vote more weight and is meant to prompt a Federal response.
Governor Rossello said in an interview today that, legally, Congress cannot be forced to take action but "certainly it will be a strong statement that I don't think Congress can ignore."
With five options on the ballot, however, newspaper polls here indicate that none is likely to get a majority. The vote is further complicated by an option called "none of the above" which is supported by commonwealth supporters as a form of protest against the referendum.
The leadership of the pro-commonwealth Popular Democratic Party argues that the definition of the status quo as drafted by the pro-statehood majority in the legislature and as it appears on the ballot is misleading. It calls United States citizenship "statutory" rather than irrevocable and inviolable as in two previous plebiscite votes, for instance, in order to scare Puerto Ricans to vote for statehood, the party says.
"We need a process of self-determination because there are many perspectives," said Mayor Sila M. Calderon of San Juan, a leader of the Popular Democrats, "but this is not fair and square."
In addition to commonwealth, statehood, independence and none of the above, the ballot includes a "free association" option appearing for the first time on a status referendum in Puerto Rico. It calls for a self-governing nation that delegates certain powers to the United States under treaties, like defense and national security. The relationship would be similar to the arrangement the United States has already with Pacific territories like the Marshall Islands, Federal officials said.
It is uncertain what Sunday's plebiscite vote would do to advance the cause of self-determination for the island with a Congress equally divided over whether to open up the opportunity for Puerto Rico to join the union. Governor Rossello said he would consider a plurality of the vote a victory and enough of a mandate to take to Congress to start a transition plan to implement statehood.
Under the bill approved by the House this year, such a transition would take no longer than 10 years and require another referendum for final approval.
If statehood wins, it would be the first time that such option garners the most votes in Puerto Rico. In a 1993 referendum statehood lost to commonwealth, 46 percent to 48 percent. The third option, independence, got 4 percent.
Some members of Congress have said a plurality, in the absence of a 50 percent plus 1 majority, could suffice to start a process for Congress to define the terms of a yes-or-no vote on statehood. Republican Senator Connie Mack and Democratic Senator Bob Graham, both of Florida, said in a joint written statement they would act to implement the chosen option by a majority but would disregard the "none of the above votes" because "such a vote conveys no message to the Federal Government." That may leave statehood with a clear majority among only four options instead of five.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (57%); 

SUBJECT: STATEHOOD (US); PUBLIC OPINION; SPANISH LANGUAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REFERENDUMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (75%); CITIES (73%); BALLOTS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



263 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Some May Like It Hot, but Not Retailers

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
At Scheels Ace Hardware in Fargo, N.D., they cannot even give the snow blowers away.
Even though temperatures have dropped into the 30's from the mid-40's a week ago, people "just walk right by" the bright red machines, said Tom Molm, an assistant manager. "Typically there'd be two, three, four people every day looking and buying. This weekend, there was one person looking at a used one." 
 Don't even ask about ice melt, car survival kits or sleds.
For retailers around the country, especially in the Midwest and Northeast, balmy temperatures in recent weeks -- often 20 to 30 degrees above normal -- have dampened buying interest in winter items. Tires, down-filled jackets, ice-fishing gear, skis, snowboards, sweaters, gloves, full-length coats -- all are frozen to the shelves.
The summer-like breezes spawned more sunbathing than window shopping, tightening the screws on department stores and other chains, which count on robust holiday sales to turn a profit for the year. Some industry consultants and stock analysts have lowered sales forecasts for the holiday season as huge markdowns on items such as coats have not spurred spending.
Now, with temperatures falling, retailers are hoping the gusts of cold air -- not to mention the approach of Christmas -- will send shoppers scrambling to pick up neglected winter items.
"Who wants to buy woolen sweaters and scarves and ski parkas when temperatures are 70 degrees and there's no snow?" said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, a forecasting company in Upper Montclair, N.J. "It's not on your mind," said Mr. Barnard, who has lowered his sales forecast for the season to a gain of about 3 to 4 percent, down from 5 percent.
Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Research Group, another retail consultancy, slashed his holiday sales forecast to a gain of 3 to 6.1 percent from 7.3 percent. Richard Church, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney has dropped his forecast gain to 4 to 5 percent.
Sales at specialty stores in shopping malls fell eight-tenths of 1 percent in the week ended Dec. 6 from the corresponding week last year, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group. The steepest declines were seen in apparel sales, down 4.1 percent. Home furnishings, meanwhile, rose a strong 5.3 percent.
The junior women's coat department at the midtown Manhattan flagship store of Macy's, a unit of Federated Department Stores, was a sea of coats recently, with discount tags dotting many sales racks. A few women tried on short coats and jackets or all-weather trench coats, showing little interest in the longer coats across the aisle.
Other winter items like sweaters and flannel pajamas have sold slowly, said Carol Sanger, a Federated spokeswoman. The downturn contributed to a 1.5 percent decline in November sales at Federated, which also owns Bloomingdale's.
At the Ritz Furs shop in Manhattan, cashmere capes with fur trim, shorter coats and lighter-weight items are popular, said Keith Tauber, the manager.
In Dallas, Neiman Marcus is seeing similar interest in its short coats, and "anything with a piece of fur on it is selling," said Ralph Romberg, a vice president and divisional manager. Shunning heavier wools, customers are scooping up cashmere coats and leather jackets as well as mink- and fox-trimmed capes and fur stoles. Fur coats that are selling include short, close-fitting, high-priced designer fashions.
Elsewhere at Neiman Marcus stores, cashmere sweaters and other lighter-weight knits and scarves, especially those of cashmere and silk blends, have sold well. Fashion boots have also eclipsed heavier utilitarian styles. Neiman Marcus is a unit of Harcourt General.
Despite the slip in sales, "we're very optimistic about the rest of the month," Mr. Romberg said. While the store is planning price cuts on many winter items to clear shelves before Christmas, margins should not be hurt much, said Hubert W. Mullins, an executive vice president.
Instead of buying clothing this year, many shoppers are buying furniture, lamps and dishes, or adding splashes of color with pillows, and new shower curtains.
They have also been sprucing up home exteriors, said Cliff Hambleton, district manager for Lowe's in Fort Wayne, Ind.
People are putting on roofs, replacing windows and doors, remodeling bathrooms, projects not typically tackled in winter.
One item unaffected by the warm weather is sport utility vehicles. In November, sales increased about 8 percent, to 236,297, according to Ward Communications, a research firm.
"Pretty much as soon as the dealers get them, they sell them," said Nancy Hubbell, a spokeswoman for Lexus, the Toyota Motor division that makes two sport vehicles. Lexus dealers have seen more people milling around showrooms, she said, adding that "sometimes when the weather turns bad, that's when SUV sales go up."
Tires, however, are not selling. Business has slowed from last year at the Firestone Tire and Auto store in St. Paul. "We do not sell too many tires when it's not snowing," said Dale Wohnoutka, a store manager. Colder temperatures would also mean that more cars break down and repair business increases, he added. Firestone is a unit of Bridgestone.
While it may not have felt like Christmas in recent weeks, it certainly looks like it now, as customers have splurged on outdoor decorations.
"The Christmas trim has gone like crazy," Mr. Hambleton and other retailers said. Strings of exterior light sets, colored floodlights and plastic Santas, snowmen and Winnie the Pooh's have disappeared from store shelves, along with extension cords, plugs and socket adapters.
But don't try to interest anyone in the space heaters, shovels, snow scrapers or weather stripping. "It's a little difficult to get them to spend their Christmas dollars on that," Mr. Hambleton said.
And at sporting goods stores, while rollerblades are hot, few customers are clamoring for skis, said Ellen Waite, president of Waite Sports Specialist, a 67-year-old store in Concord, N.H.
"We've had some people who know the snow is going to be coming and they prepare in advance," she said. "But most people have been waiting. They make do with what they have."
Still, Ms. Waite is optimistic about the rest of the season, feeling confident that the cold weather will come and lift sales.
"Oh, yeah, I really think so," she said. "You know what they say: 'You come from New Hampshire. You wait a day. It will get cold.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Scheels Ace Hardware in Fargo, N.D., the snow blowers have not been hot sellers. Warm weather has convinced a lot of consumers that many typical winter goods are not, for now, pressing needs. (David Arntson for The New York Times)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (74%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (74%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); FARGO, ND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WEATHER RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SKIING (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); TRENDS (74%); CHRISTMAS (74%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SPORT FISHING (54%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R KURT BARNARD (71%); RALPH ROMBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



264 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren 

 BODY:

AFRICA
 
MADAGASCAR: LONG WAIT FOR JUSTICE -- Two-thirds of the 24,000 people behind bars in Madagascar are still awaiting trial, a prison chaplain said. The Rev. Angelo Buccarello said that more than 200 of those whose trials have not yet begun have been in preventive detention for more than five years. (Agence France-Presse) 

SUDAN: 2 MILLION DEAD IN WAR -- Sudan's continuing civil war has caused the death of nearly two million people in the last 15 years, the United States Committee for Refugees reported, according to BBC News. The agency said the fight for control of central and southern Sudan had killed one in five southern Sudanese through warfare, famine or human rights abuses by the Government or rebels.
 
EUROPE
 
 RUSSIA: SOLZHENITSYN REFUSES HONOR -- President Boris N. Yeltsin tried to honor Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, left, on his 80th birthday, but Russia's greatest living writer refused his country's highest cultural award, the Order of St. Andrew. Mr. Solzhenitsyn thanked President Yeltsin but said, "In today's conditions, when people are starving and striking just to get their wages, I cannot accept this award." (AP)
 
RUSSIA: TAX POLICE RAID TYCOON -- The Russian tax police said they seized cash and valuables from the Moscow apartment and offices of Sergei Lisovsky, an advertising mogul with close ties to the financier Boris A. Berezovsky. The investigation is seen as another sign of the plummeting political fortunes of Mr. Berezovsky, the most visible of Russia's so-called oligarchs, and a sign of more aggressive tax collection by the cash-strapped Government. Celestine Bohlen (NYT)
 
SWITZERLAND: RUSSIAN CLEARED OF MOB TIES -- A Swiss court cleared Sergei Mikhailov, a Russian businessman accused of heading a major organized crime family in Moscow, of charges that he belonged to a criminal organization. His acquittal was a blow to the Swiss police and prosecutors, who contended that he had led a gang known as the Solntsevo group, which started out in Moscow before spreading across Europe. (Reuters)
 
FRANCE: RIGHTIST RIFT GROWS -- The split in France's far-right National Front Party widened as its leader, Jean-Marie Le Pen, expelled his longtime deputy, Bruno Megret, and several of Mr. Megret's supporters from the organization. The two men had been fighting for control over the party; Mr. Megret wanted to make the xenophobic and racist image of the group more respectable. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: SLOW ROAD TO PEACE -- Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland said he doubted significant progress in the peace effort in Northern Ireland was likely before the end of the year. He cited a report by the Irish national television that the Irish Republican Army had restated its refusal to disarm in the near future. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
ITALY: TOWER 'SUSPENDERS' DELAYED -- Heavy rain delayed the first steps in a plan to attach steel "suspenders" to the Leaning Tower of Pisa in the latest effort to insure that the monument does not topple. The engineer overseeing the work said two sets of two-inch-thick cables had been moved to the base of the 12th-century tower but could not be raised higher along the edifice until the weather improved. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: SUHARTO SON ACCUSED -- Two days after questioning former President Suharto about his financial affairs, prosecutors named his youngest son, Hutomo Mandala Putro, as a suspect in a corruption case involving a land deal. Two other Suharto sons have been questioned about their financial dealings, but Mr. Hutomo is the first to be named officially as a suspect in a corruption case. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
INDIA: STRIKE HITS WEST BENGAL -- Trade unions and left-wing political parties joined workers in a strike against the Hindu nationalist-led Government's economic policies, particularly its moves to open the insurance industry to foreign investment and to sell off state-run companies that are losing money. The strike brought business to a standstill in West Bengal and had a scattered impact in other parts of India. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
MONGOLIA: OIL PACT WITH CHINA -- As President Natsagiyn Bagabandi of Mongolia began a six-day official visit to China, the two countries signed a pact pledging Chinese help to build Mongolia's first oil refinery. Mr. Bagabandi met with President Jiang Zemin and other top Chinese leaders to discuss trade, cross-border smuggling and other issues. (AP)
 
MARSHALL ISLANDS: CHINA BREAKS TIES -- China severed diplomatic relations with the Marshall Islands three weeks after the tiny Pacific nation forged ties with Taiwan. The Marshall Islands, which won independence from the United States in 1986, had hoped to maintain diplomatic relations simultaneously with China, a move Beijing has consistently rejected. (Reuters)
 
MYANMAR: PINOCHET RINGS A BELL -- Singapore's elder statesman, Lee Kuan Yew, said some members of Myanmar's military junta may face the same fate as the former Chilean dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who is fighting extradition to Spain on charges of human rights abuses. "Some of the things some generals have done in Burma may well put them into similar predicament," Mr. Lee told CNN in Singapore, referring to Myanmar by its former name. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: MISSILE SELF-SUFFICIENCY -- Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said the United States was no longer able to curb Iran's missile industry because Teheran had largely reached technological self-sufficiency. Israel and the United States have expressed concern over Iran's missile capacity, urging Russia and China to stop any transfers of technology. Teheran denies having received foreign help. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
GUATEMALA: TAIWAN OFFERS AID -- Vice President Lien Chan of Taiwan announced $6 million in aid for Guatemala to help repair the hurricane damage there. Mr. Lien, who arrived in Guatemala on a tour of the ravaged countries of Central America, said the aid would consist of a $2 million donation and $4 million in loans. (Agence France-Presse)

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: SUDAN (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MADAGASCAR (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); AFRICA (91%); FRANCE (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADAGASCAR; SUDAN (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MADAGASCAR (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); AFRICA (91%); FRANCE (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRELAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); TAX LAW (87%); FAMINE (79%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); ACQUITTAL (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); STARVATION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); REFUGEES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: BORIS BEREZOVSKY (72%); BERTIE AHERN (50%); JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



265 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Germany Is Bolder, Irritating Its Allies

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Dec. 11

 BODY:
After assuring its allies that it represents continuity, the new Government of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder is using a bold, often challenging directness that is a radical departure from other postwar German adminstrations.
Gone are the unquestioning solidarity with a European Union seen as the guarantor of German stability, the reluctance to challenge NATO on basic points of doctrine and the deference to the United States that reflected a historic debt and an enduring sense of vulnerability. 
 In their place Mr. Schroder has bitterly attacked what he called Germany's unfairly high contributions to a wasteful European Union budget. Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer has suggested that NATO change its nuclear policies. And Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine has made clear that American-style global capitalism is not to his taste.
"Strange sounds can be heard from Germany these days," the Munich newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung said on its editorial page this week. "Where is Fischer's humility toward our big American ally? Where are Schroder and Lafontaine's consideration and sensitivity toward their European partners? Where, in fact, is the feeling for history?"
The answer, perhaps, is that Germany's feeling for history has shifted with the arrival in power of a new generation that, as Mr. Schroder has said, believes that the country should show "the self-confidence of a nation that has come of age."
In a sense, the Government's directness is a refreshing liberation, a breath of fresh air for Germany's ponderous political culture. Young Germans, particularly, felt stifled in the latter years of Mr. Schroder's predecessor, Helmut Kohl, and many are enthusiastic about the new Government's freewheeling style.
But the shock to the United States, and to European allies gathered today for a summit meeting in Vienna, has been palpable.
"What the Government fails to realize is that when Germany raises questions about NATO strategy, people raise questions about Germany," said one Western official. "They are begging us not to make too much of Fischer's remarks, but the fact is he is not building trust and he is causing irritation."
Mr. Schroder's "Red-Green" coalition of Social Democrats and Greens is still finding its feet, and there have been indications of confusion in the coalition's ranks. The ministers' statements may be scattershot attempts to satisfy important party constituencies as much as coordinated Government policy.
Mr. Fischer, for example, is facing a Green Party congress this weekend, and his call for NATO to renounce the first use of nuclear weapons is certain to go down well there.
"Fischer warmed up a rather shallow green soup just enough to let it bubble through the weekend," said one Government official, "but the coalition does not want to push this idea with any lasting conviction."
But whatever the follow-up to Mr. Fischer's stand, American officials are concerned that his call for a review of nuclear policy will prove a distraction as NATO grapples with other aspects of redefining its post-cold-war mission.
There is also widespread concern in Western capitals that Mr. Schroder appears unable or unready to assert his authority -- particularly over his bustling Finance Minister, Mr. Lafontaine -- and so give a single voice to the coalition.
But the Social Democratic Chancellor seems determined to support the various statements from his ministers. His consistent message has been that Germany should no longer bear any complexes.
"Today," Mr. Schroder said last month, "we are democrats and Europeans, not because we have to be, but because we want to be."
In a speech this week about Germany's place in Europe, though, he seemed to break startling new ground, adopting an almost Thatcherite tone as he lambasted the European Union for draining Germany's resources.
"We cannot and do not want to continue a policy that buys the good will of our neighbors with net payments that will become a burden to our country," Mr. Schroder declared. "We cannot solve Europe's problems with the German checkbook."
His attack was focused on Germany's net contribution of $13.2 billion to the European Union budget, far more than those of other countries, many of which receive large net payments every year in the form of various subsidies. Why, Mr. Schroder asked, should Germany pay when rich countries like Luxembourg, Denmark and Belgium receive money from the $100 billion European budget?
The unspoken answer has long been precisely that Germany should buy the good will of its neighbors, because it had a historic debt to them and because the European Union provided Germans with an environment in which to grow rich again without appearing threatening.
Several allies, including France, are certain to be troubled by Mr. Schroder's words, even as another ally, Britain, has been angered by calls from Mr. Lafontaine for a harmonization of European tax levels to reflect the imminent introduction of a common European currency.
After a storm of protest in London, Mr. Lafontaine retreated a little, calling for the "coordination" of taxes rather than their "harmonization." Many in Britain see the latter term as a faint disguise for the imposition of uncompetitive tax levels by the European Union.
But the German Finance Minister has stuck to calls for "target zones" for international curencies and for greater controls in what he has called the "casino" of international capitalism. American officials, in general, have not been pleased.
Mr. Schroder has offered measured support to Mr. Lafontaine, saying he would work during Germany's approaching presidency of the Group of Seven industrial nations for a "financial architecture" that "should prevent entire economies being ruined by financial speculation."
All this amounts to a marked change, but it was for change, after all, that Germans voted 10 weeks ago. In the same article that alluded to the "strange sounds" from Germany, Suddeutsche Zeitung applauded the Government's readiness to confront problems long concealed behind "facades of harmony."
But those facades, if that is what they were, also constituted central elements in Germany's relations with its allies. Nobody today believes that Germany is turning its back on America or the European Union. But an adjustment of those relationships appears to be under way, and it may eventually involve far-reaching shifts in the European and trans-Atlantic order.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a European Union meeting in Vienna, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany smoked as Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schussel of Austria, right, conferred with Austria's envoy to the group, Manfred Scheich. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); FISCHER, JOSCHKA (MIN); LAFONTAINE, OSKAR GERHARD SCHRODER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



266 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Coke Warns of Poor Foreign Results as It Tells of Global Deal

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company disclosed yesterday that its fourth-quarter performance was proving even more dismal than the company had indicated a few weeks ago because of weakening markets abroad. But in an affirmation of its goal to gain more global power in the beverage industry, the company also announced a $1.85 billion purchase of overseas rights to the soft drinks of Cadbury Schweppes P.L.C.
At an abruptly scheduled meeting with securities analysts in New York, Coke officials said they expected that volume sales would rise 3 percent but that earnings would be 20 percent lower than originally estimated for the current quarter. 
 They said a combination of currency devaluations, higher marketing expenses and continuing economic turmoil abroad cut into earnings, which the company said would be 24 cents to 25 cents a share. Many analysts had been estimating 30 cents a share for the quarter.
The numbers steepened the recent turn to bleaker times for Coke, which had been the prototype of the highflying global growth company.
"It's an uncertain situation," said Emanuel Goldman, a global consumer products analyst for Merrill Lynch. "In some of these markets they think they've seen the worst, but they don't know how long the worst will stay the norm."
Yesterday was the second time in three months that Coke's management deemed it necessary to manage the company's earnings news in person. The 8 A.M. meeting was arranged barely 12 hours earlier.
While Coke's determination to be a global beverage power might seem like the source of its problems, the company underscored its commitment to that strategy by announcing at the same time the Cadbury Schweppes deal.
The $1.85 billion price, which includes $100 million in debt, buys the international rights to Dr Pepper, Crush, Schweppes and Canada Dry, and a range of juice drinks and bottled water. Sales of those brands totaled 600 million cases last year, compared with 10.5 billion for Coke outside the United States.
The juice drinks and bottled water included in the purchase make Coke's offerings a little more like those of Pepsico, which has pledged to be "a total beverage company."
But Wall Street seemed more concerned with the short-term numbers than with the acquisition, which is not expected to help earnings for at least a year. Investors drove Coke shares down $3.1875, to $62.875. In addition, Standard & Poor's lowered its rating on the company. Cadbury's American depository receipts, in contrast, rose $4.75, to $66.125.
Coke executives said that the fourth-quarter slowdown was a result of continuing economic turmoil in various parts of the world, including Russia, Japan, Germany and Brazil.
The company's chairman and chief executive, M. Douglas Ivester, referred to Russia at one point during the meeting yesterday as "just a mess."
Profits were affected as well by higher marketing expenses and weakened currencies in many countries. Profits made in the weakened currencies translate into lower profits when converted to dollars.
It is unclear just when the company might see improvement. "There isn't a thing in the world I can do about that," Mr. Ivester said in an interview, referring to exchange rates and other economic problems. He added, "There's nothing about our performance in the last quarter or the last six months that alters our long-term view of this business."
As for the stock price, he said: "I'm not worried about the stock today. I'm not going to retire for years. The people who have taken the long view of the company or our bottlers or the stock, they've always prospered."
One analyst, Jennifer Solomon of Salomon Smith Barney, rated the stock a "buy" for the first time in 18 months yesterday. "We think all the bad news is in the stock right now," she said. "It's underperformed the market since the market rallied."
Others remained cautious. Andrew M. Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley, said he projected the company's growth at 6 percent for next year, slightly lower than Coke's projection of 7 to 8 percent, without the Cadbury acquisition.
The Cadbury purchase covers all the 120 countries where Cadbury sells its products, except the United States, France and South Africa. But Coke could face problems in some markets, like Australia, where regulators might consider the combined market share of Coke and Cadbury too large. And over all, the Cadbury brands represent a niche market for Coke, which derives most of its global sales from its cola drinks.
John F. Brock, Cadbury's managing director for global beverages, said the decision to sell reflected a desire to expand the brands in a way that Cadbury could not achieve, and to improve shareholder value. At the same time, selling the international business will enable Cadbury to focus on its beverage business in the United States, which has long been weakened by its dependence on a patchwork of Coke, Pepsi and third-tier bottlers.
"It's not that we have a problem," Mr. Brock said in an interview. "We have a great set of brands that can be more valuable to somebody else than to us." The agreement requires Coke to hire the 450 Cadbury employees in the overseas business.
The Coke-Cadbury deal represents a twist in the cola wars with Pepsi, which had agreed earlier this week to continue distributing Cadbury brands in the United States. In several countries, among them Chile, Canada and parts of Eastern Europe, Pepsi bottlers package and distribute Cadbury products. Now, they will be working for Coke and buying concentrate from their archrival.
"Clearly, we're planning to take a close look at every aspect of this deal," a Pepsi-Cola spokesman, Brad Shaw, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); PEP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (86%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CADBURY SCHWEPPES PLC; COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (95%); CADBURY LTD (86%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); PEPSICO INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CADBURY SCHWEPPES PLC; COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY REPORTS SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DEVALUATION (69%); CURRENCIES (54%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



267 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Top Japan Brokerage Firm Reduces U.S. Business
Nomura Holding America, an arm of Japan's biggest brokerage house, said it would abandon the commercial real estate lending business that it helped to pioneer in the mid-1990's. Nomura's once highly profitable Capital Company of America, hurt by steep losses earlier this year, will sell its enormous inventory of loans, lay off half of its 400 employees and centralize operations in New York.
The change of fortune at Nomura will have an impact on commercial real estate developers, who will lose one of the most eager lenders in the business. Over the last six years, Capital America lent more than $32 billion, sometimes to customers rejected by banks. Page C2. 

Big Payout for Tobacco Lawyers
The lawyers who represented the first states to settle with the tobacco industry over health care costs were awarded $8.2 billion in fees, the richest legal payday in the nation's history. The money, to be divided among dozens of lawyers who represented Florida, Mississippi and Texas, is the first to result from a series of tobacco cases that culminated last month in a $206 billion settlement between tobacco companies and 46 states and 5 United States territories. A1.
 
Stocks End Mixed as Bonds Fall
Stocks ended mixed after Coca-Cola warned that profits would not meet forecasts. The Dow industrials fell 19.82, to 8,821.76, while the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq composite posted small gains. Stocks pared earlier losses after President Clinton said he would address the nation following the close of trading. Bonds posted their biggest loss in more than a month as Seagram sold $3.5 billion of debt. C3.
 
Mixed Data on Economy
The Government said producer prices fell two-tenths of 1 percent in November on falling energy and food costs. It was the biggest decline since August, and essentially offset the October increase of two-tenths of 1 percent. In another report showing surprising economic strength, retail sales rose six-tenths of 1 percent in November, despite weak demand for cold-weather merchandise. C2.
 
Storm Over a Mexican Banker
As Mexico's Finance Minister, Guillermo Ortiz won acclaim for steering the country through a fiscal storm. Now he is at the center of a controversy that has brought Mexico's young democracy to a high-risk impasse. A demand by an opposition group that Mr. Ortiz resign as head of the Banco de Mexico has shaken the country's markets, left the banks in limbo and rattled international investors. A6.
 
Reform Struggle in Brazil Congress
With a $41. 5 billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund in the offing, the world watched nervously as Brazil's Congress faced an important vote on measures to cut the pension deficit. But unlike last year, when the Asian collapse prompted instant, total cooperation from Congress, the Government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso now faces a tougher fight to push through unpopular economic measures. A6.
 
$1.4 Billion Cellular Deal
The stock of Cellular Communications International jumped $4.25, to $66.25, after two European companies, Olivetti and Mannesmann, agreed to acquire it for $65.75 a share. Olivetti and Mannesmann plan to use the acquisition, whose primary asset is an interest in an Italian mobile phone operator, as a vehicle to expand their existing venture in Italian telecommunications. C3.
 
Dispute Divides Gambling Towns
The elegant old Rocky Mountain mining town of Central City, Colo., with its 600 inhabitants, stands only one mile west from its blue-collar sister village, Black Hawk, population 150. But in this old gold rush landscape, modern greed over gambling is plunging the two villages into a municipal feud worthy of the Hatfields and the McCoys. A9.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,821.76 down 19.82
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% up 0.06
The Dollar -- 116.42 yen down 0.91

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); JAPAN (94%); BRAZIL (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA HOLDING AMERICA INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); BANCO DE MEXICO (51%); BRAZIL CONGRESS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRAZIL CONGRESS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); JAPAN (94%); BRAZIL (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAWYERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); BONDS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); HISTORY (67%); RETAIL SALES (61%); US TERRITORIES (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



268 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1786 words

HEADLINE: Off the Euroland Map;
Is Britain Regretting Not Joining the Unified Currency?

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: ROTHERHAM, England

 BODY:
On Monday, Jan. 4, Europe's new single currency, the euro, will be introduced in 11 nations with some 290 million people. But this old steel town, with a population of 250,000 and a tendency to attract unwelcome mockery of its provincialism, has beaten the rest of Europe to the punch.
While Britain itself has rejected initial participation in the single currency, the business leaders of Rotherham (pronounced ROTH-er-um) decided that for a week in mid-November, they would introduce the "Rotherham euro" -- a voucher with a nominal value of 70 pence ($1.12), roughly what one euro was worth at the time. Two months before the euro's debut in cross-border transactions and more than two years before real euro bills and coins will be available, some 90,000 euro vouchers were given out to the people of depressed South Yorkshire to let them know just what the euro-fuss is all about. In American terms, its equal would have been, say, a mock-dollar redeemable in only Akron, Ohio. 
 The Rotherham euro was a matter of "some hype," acknowledged Phil Davies, a marketing consultant involved in the project. But he added that it "was hype, with substance," because it drew attention to a debate that is growing more ferocious in Britain even as it watches the inception of the euro from the sidelines.
It is a debate in which economic issues have long been colored by a fierce nationalism, driven by conservative newspapers and politicians. Yet, it is also coming to reflect a more basic philosophic conflict between the freewheeling, market-driven ethos that Britain models on America and the big Government priorities of a Continent pressed to the left by the recent elections in France and Germany.
Many business leaders argue that Britain cannot afford to delay joining the euro, saying that it will revolutionize European markets and that British exports will lose competitiveness if the country remains outside the euro zone. But others worry that monetary union would also mean higher taxes and heftier labor costs in line with the rest of Europe.
"You cannot operate a single currency for long without a unified fiscal policy," argued Kevin Gardiner, an economist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in London. "So the question has to be raised: Do the British people want to cede fiscal sovereignty?"
The latest flare-up in the debate concerns "harmonization," the notion promoted by France and Germany that the euro will be undermined if some countries within the monetary union offer tax and labor incentives, drawing investment and money away from others, in much the same way as states in the United States compete for businesses.
But such talk is alarming in Britain, which cherishes its status as a magnet for banks and other companies that find the Continent too pricey. Compared with the 11 nations -- Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain -- that will make up Euroland, Britain generally has weaker labor unions and lower taxes. Germany, for example, has a maximum tax rate of more than 60 percent, compared with 40 percent in Britain.
France and Germany deny they are seeking uniform tax rates across Europe, saying what they want is a withholding tax on cross-border savings and an end to tax havens in places like Luxembourg.
While the British Government says it, too, is against unfair tax systems, it also does not want to alarm London's financial district, the prime marketplace for Europe -- euro or no euro.
"What we want," said Gordon Brown, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, "is tax competition, not tax cooperation."
The battle over taxation levels is one of several economic issues intertwined with the fiercely nationalistic political debate that has forced the Labor Government, like its Conservative predecessor, to adopt a wait-and-see policy. It says a decision on joining the euro will not be taken until after a referendum to be held after the next national election, which must be called, at the latest, by 2002.
But, the single currency's promoters maintain, the longer Britain stays out, the less its influence will be and the more conditions in Europe will be dictated by others.
 In a way, Britain has already had a taste of that: when the central banks of the euro nations lowered interest rates on Dec. 3, the Bank of England was a spectator. On Thursday, Britain's central bank lowered its benchmark rate a half-point, to 6.25 percent -- but still double the Euroland norm .
For critics of the euro, being outside Euroland is a plus, not a minus. Britain, they say, is at a different point in the economic cycle and has nothing to gain by exposing its strengths -- cheaper labor, lower taxation and flexibility -- to any further dictates of common European policies.
At its most visceral level, the political debate is driven by such euro-skeptic institutions as Rupert Murdoch's mass-market newspaper, The Sun. A front-page of The Sun, for instance, described Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine of Germany as the most dangerous man in Europe, and hinted at a vulgar expletive to tell him what to do with his tax proposals. So deep is the nationalistic vein that there has already been a debate about whether Queen Elizabeth's head would appear on the euro -- as it does on the pound -- even though Britain is not a member. (Under current plans, an image of her head would be allowed.)
For many euro advocates, though, Britain has already waited too long.
"Too many people in Britain have spent the last few years deluding themselves, some hoping that if we all shut our eyes tightly enough the single currency would simply go away," said Niall Fitzgerald, the chairman of Unilever, the British-Dutch consumer products company. "Others arrogantly assumed that if Britain didn't like the idea it just wouldn't happen."
On Nov. 23, 114 business leaders took out a full-page advertisement in The Financial Times to urge a speedy embrace of the new currency. An earlier survey cited 63 percent of business respondents as saying they favored the euro.
Why? Ask Julie A. Kenny, managing director of a security company employing some 200 people in an industrial park on the outskirts of Rotherham. Mrs. Kenny started the business in 1986 with a start-up stake equivalent to $32,000 from the sale of a house with a further $13,000 in outside capital. These days, its annual sales, she said, are around $18 million, and her company, Pyronix Ltd., is seen as a local success story.
Since 1992, when the European Union introduced its single market, knocking down nearly all the remaining barriers to trade, finance and travel within Europe, Pyronix has exported some 40 percent of its output, the bulk of it to the Continent. But in recent years, as the pound has strengthened against the German mark and French franc, Pyronix's Continental customers have complained about rising prices, while her British market has been undercut by cheaper imports.
"The exchange rate has meant tremendous pressure," she said. The cost of a strong pound "has got to be found in reduced profits."
Like other small British exporters, her company has already set up a euro bank account to deal with clients that want to pay in euros -- only Siemens, the German electronics giant, has so far said it will -- and it will put out a euro price list in January, when the currency comes into use in electronic transactions. Rotherham's biggest employer, British Steel, is also prepared to use the euro. "We are going to allow our customers to decide which way they want to do business," said Colin Jackson, a British Steel manager.
Mrs. Kenny now believes, with some qualifications, that Britain should join. "If it's successful and the Europeans are trading extensively in euros, then we as businesses have to be on the inside, playing on the same terms as everyone else, rather than on the outside looking in," she said.
The 114 signatories of business leaders' advertisement made similar points. The euro "will promote low and stable interest rates and low inflation, and encourage prudent fiscal management," they wrote.
But even business leaders worry that there may be negative consequences if Britain joins. For instance, Continental labor laws make it harder to lay off workers. Personal and corporate taxes are generally higher. As a proportion of national output, British tax revenues account for only 40 percent compared with some 50 percent in Continental Europe. If Britain were forced to emulate other European nations, Mrs. Kenny said, it would mean "higher prices, and more companies going bust."
Indeed, Ralph Robins, chairman of Rolls-Royce, told an audience in Australia that "the last thing we want in Britain is some of the European labor laws appearing in the United Kingdom, and I'm not just saying that for Rolls-Royce, I'm saying it for every industrialist in the U.K."
A move in that direction is unlikely because Britain retains a veto over having to impose such measures adopted by the 15-nation European Union. But the anxieties touch the core of Britain's euro debate, fueling the argument that by joining Britain would cede control over taxes and Government spending.
The counterargument advanced by Mr. Brown, Chancellor of the Exchequer, is that taxes need not be uniform. "You have a single currency in the United States, but they have different income, corporate and sales taxes right across the U.S.A.," he said after meeting with other European finance ministers in Brussels. "So there is no reason why the single currency requires the same tax rates for businesses to be able to work."
But there is no denying that joining the euro means giving up control over interest rates. That leaves individual countries unable to rely on monetary changes to counter economic ups and downs when they are out of step with the rest of Europe, as Britain is today.
"There's going to be a single euro interest rate set by the European Central Bank," an economist in London said. "While that may be appropriate for Europe as a whole, it may not be appropriate for individual countries."
In Rotherham, some of the arguments seemed arcane, particularly for those who are, as Mr. Davies, the marketing consultant, put it, "still getting over decimalization," when Britain abandoned pounds, shillings and pence in favor of decimal currency. That was in 1972.
John Redwood, a Conservative Party foe of the euro, dismissed the Rotherham euro as a "ridiculous stunt." Not so, Mr. Davies replied. The point was to show that obscure places like Rotherham are ready to deal with euros when necessary. "The issue of whether we join or not," he said, "is for another day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The city of Rotherham, England, gave the euro a tryout last month. Among those already familiar with it were Julie A. Kenny, who does business on the Continent. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "European Disunion"
The euro may shape the fiscal policies of the nations in the monetary union. In Britain, critics of the euro argue that membership would mean that British taxes would go up, more in line with the rest of Europe.'
 
HIGHEST CORPORATE TAX RATES
Germany
Belgium
* Greece
Italy
Spain
The Netherlands
* Denmark
Austria
Portugal
France
Ireland
Britain
* Luxembourg
* Sweden
Finland
UNITED STATES
 
(* Countries not participating in the euro)
(Source: Ernst & Young)(pg. C1)
 
Map showing the location of Rotherham: Rotherham was an early test site for the new European currency. (pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); ENGLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GREECE (73%); PORTUGAL (58%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION MORGAN STANLEY (51%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); ENGLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GREECE (73%); PORTUGAL (58%); OHIO, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (94%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); POLITICS (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); TRENDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



269 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Where Charity Begins

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

 BODY:
IN the most significant lockout news of the week, pro basketball players announced a charity game in Atlantic City. They were then criticized for waffling on the beneficiaries. At first, it was said that the proceeds would go to charity, with some going to players who have been financially pinched by the lockout.
Facing howls of criticism, mostly from the news media, the players backed off and announced that all the proceeds would go to charity. The commentators had been indignant that salaried employees making a minimum of $275,000 would need to be bailed out. 
 This criticism is troubling on two counts.
In the "Father's Knows Best"/Dr. Huxtable world in which the critics apparently live, things always turn out all right: a white picket fence with freshly baked cookies. Money is rarely an issue, never a problem.
In the real world things are not so genteel. The father in "Father Knows Best" attended Alcoholics Anonymous during the making of the show. Dr. Huxtable's alter ego disclosed that he had had an extramarital affair. In real life families overspend, live on a fragile economic precipice. Three or four missed paychecks can wreck a world. Or come close.
Jerome Stanley, the agent for Keyshawn Johnson of the Jets, also represents the National Basketball Association players Gerald Madkins, Todd Day and Lucious Harris -- hardly household names. "Between them they have 12 dependent children, 12 dependent adults," Stanley said yesterday.
At first glance, the negative media reaction is simply a response to an ill-conceived game. More subtly, it is an indirect rebuke of the players for not saving for a rainy day. But the criticism runs deeper than that and cuddles up to a deep-seated paternalism that often places the news media closer to management than to players. It's all right for players to make money for owners, to keep the plantation lighted and warm. But take a step -- even an uncertain baby step -- toward autonomy, and the whip-wielders crack the whip. Tell the players to get back, move back where they belong. And they move back.
In backing off charity, the players ignored an ancient principle: Charity begins at home. The players have a right -- an obligation -- to use their skills to make money for themselves, to hold each other together, to bail each other out and to give the public what it wants: professional basketball.
The more crucial concept is autonomy. The N.B.A. as it exists today is the successor to a string of leagues and associations that failed, crumbled and were put back together. As ill conceived as the exhibition game set for next Saturday may be, it is the germ of a good idea. Players need an infrastructure, and the infrastructure needs players -- to a greater extent, perhaps, than the owners realize.
During the 1987 National Football League strike, the striking players staged a game in Los Angeles. The game flopped. The owners countered with games using replacement players; those were more successful.
But football relies on licensing and uses anonymous images colliding every 25 seconds as background music. In professional basketball, by contrast, the players are essential. The owners, under the commissioner's direction, have created a league based on a collage of images. Fans won't pay to see David Stern make presentations, or for Pat Riley to prance up and down the sideline. They might not pay for isolated all-star games, either. Fans, as Stanley correctly noted, "want the whole thing."
"They want the team, the colors, the logo, the history," he said. "That's something the players can tap into." Games organized by the players will draw a different type of fan, a fan whom the players have largely lost direct contact with, a fan they see only in the summer.
Fans will come to see Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant wearing purple and gold, leading a team simply called Los Angeles, against a team from New York, led by Patrick Ewing, in orange and blue. Fans will pay to see Scottie Pippen in a modified uniform of red and black play an Indiana team led by Reggie Miller in yellow and blue. Fans will pay to see players playing hard in games that count, with professional officials and coaches. Televise games on cable, devise an abbreviated playoff system.
Would the mainstream media outlets cover such games? Are pro games legitimate only under the auspices of the N.B.A.? We shall see.
In any event, the games are all about charity, of one kind or another. One comes through the front door, the other comes through the back.
The indisputable truth is that players need owners, owners need players. And in the real world, everyone needs money.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Stern, Nov. 20. (Timothy Fadek)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FAMILY (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (61%); 

PERSON: JEROME STANLEY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



270 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Soon, a Common Currency, But No European Consensus

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: VIENNA, Dec. 11

 BODY:
The European Union has always had grand plans, and great trouble agreeing on how to carry them through.
Next month it will start issuing a new common currency to rival the dollar on world markets, the euro. It has ambitions for a European foreign and security policy, with military means to back it up. 
 In the next decade it intends to take in formerly Communist countries, swelling membership from 15 to 20 or 25, with a population and economy far larger than those of the United States.
But what leaders of this supposedly united Europe are doing at a summit meeting here this weekend is squabbling, as they have been for years, about how much expansion will cost. The argument is about both money and the efficiency of procedures assuring vetoes of the original three small members of the 1957 European Economic Community -- Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands -- over decisions by the original three large ones -- Germany, France and Italy.
France and Germany both agree that without changes to cumbersome decision-making procedures, and to fat agricultural subsidies designed when France was a weak agricultural economy and Germany was a powerful industrial one, expansion will lead to political paralysis and financial chaos.
European leaders tried but failed to agree on change at a similar meeting in Amsterdam in the summer of 1997. Now, on the eve of the emergence of the euro, officials said today that the most they expected to do here was to chart a course for more negotiations and hope for a breakthrough by next March, when a another summit meeting is planned.
"Willingness to compromise and concessions by all the member states in all areas are absolutely necessary," President Jacques Chirac of France and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany agreed before the meeting.
But if they meant that Prime Minister Tony Blair should consider a cut in the British rebate from the European Union budget that Margaret Thatcher negotiated for Britain in 1984, they were disappointed.
Mr. Blair made absolutely clear today that Britain intended to keep the rebate, which brought Britain's contribution to the nearly $100 billion European Union budget down by $2.4 billion this year to $13.6 billion.
"It is fair," he said as he arrived here. His spokesman, Alistair Campbell, added, "The point is, it is not negotiable."
And France itself has no intention of making any changes to the $45 billion European agricultural support system that would require it to pay subsidies out of its own national budget. The agricultural policy now consumes nearly half the total European budget.
The European Union Executive Commission in Brussels has proposed cuts of up to 30 percent in meat subsidies and 20 percent in grain subsidies to farmers before a new round of talks next year with the United States and other countries on agricultural policies.
Even with those cuts and with member states taking over $5.85 billion of the costs of the agricultural policy, the Commission predicts that its cost to the European Union will rise to nearly $59 billion by 2006, after the first few Eastern European countries come in.
The system would become unworkable, the French agree, if changes of some kind are not carried out before Poland, with tens of thousands of inefficient small farms, becomes a member. But they have pronounced the Commission's proposals unacceptable.
In the past, Germany always ended up coughing up money that France and other smaller, less wealthy states were unwilling to provide.
But Chancellor Schroder now says that it is highly unfair that Germany pays 26 percent of the European Union budget, putting in nearly $13 billion more than it gets back from Brussels.
"Germany is being asked to do too much if fairness in contributions is not on the agenda," Mr. Schroder said.
As France's Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine put it recently, "It looks insoluble." But, he said, the European leaders had no choice but to try.
Not all was gloomy as they met today in Hofburg Palace, the seat of the vanished Austro-Hungarian Empire. The European Commissioner for economics, Yves-Thibault de Silguy, said that leaders congratulated themselves this morning on having created 1.7 million jobs in Europe in 1998, reducing Europe's unemployment level to just below 10 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany addressed European leaders yesterday in Vienna. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); BENELUX (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE; BELGIUM; LUXEMBOURG; NETHERLANDS; ITALY; EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); BENELUX (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (87%); VETO (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R GERHARD SCHRODER (52%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



271 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Momentous, Yet Banal

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11

 BODY:
By word and deed, in answering pollsters' questions and in casting mid-term ballots last month, a majority of the voters of America have made it pluperfectly clear that they do not wish to see President Clinton removed from office through the impeachment process.
Yet the Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee are charging down the road that leads to precisely that. Nothing anyone has said or done, not the harsh words of some of the President's defenders on the committee, not the softer words of his lawyers testifying before it, not even Mr. Clinton's own 11th-hour statement this afternoon, stayed the Republicans' hands. 
 Representative Lindsey O. Graham, an iconoclast from South Carolina, said before Mr. Clinton spoke that he might opt for censure instead of impeachment if the President admitted in some way to "criminal wrongdoing."
But in a subdued four-minute speech, Mr. Clinton came nowhere near to doing that. Instead, he said he would accept censure -- something his aides have been saying for days -- reiterated his remorse over his conduct -- something Mr. Graham had derided before the fact as "another lip-biting apology" -- and called again for everyone to buckle down to doing the nation's work.
Anticlimax perfumed the air a few minutes later when Mr. Graham and the 20 other Republican committee members voted for the first article of impeachment to come before them, which accuses Mr. Clinton of perjury. All but one voted for a second perjury article early this evening, with Mr. Graham breaking ranks on that occasion. But he returned to the fold, voting for the third article later in the evening. White House nose-counters have told the President he stands no better than an even chance of avoiding impeachment on one article by the full House next week, which would set up a Senate trial in January.
It was a historic day, of course, as everyone kept saying, but banal, utterly lacking in the soaring language and high-minded debate that transfixed the nation a quarter-century ago, in July 1974, when the committee voted articles of impeachment against Richard M. Nixon.
At one point members picked nits with each other over whether Mr. Clinton had been properly sworn for his grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky investigation.
The session had the compelling drama of a debate on a highway bill. Some spectators' seats were empty. Network television gave it a pass.
That could be accounted for, at least in part, by the almost universal belief in Washington that the Republicans will fail to muster the two-thirds vote that would be needed to convict Mr. Clinton and remove him from office. In a sense, the Judiciary Committee Republicans had a free play, like a quarterback who can throw a pass without fear of interception when a penalty against the defensive team has been whistled before he releases the ball.
Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House Republican whip, stated the thesis the other day. Impeachment, he said, is "like a grand jury that looks at the evidence, and the House decides whether the evidence warrants sending it to the Senate for trial." Representative Bob Barr, a Georgia Republican, echoed his words this afternoon, telling his colleagues that what they were doing was "similar to drafting an indictment" in a criminal case.
"Impeachment in the House, acquittal in the Senate," said another Republican member, "is super-censure, the most effective we have."
Some disagreed, of course. Representative Barney Frank, the cerebral Massachusetts Democrat, said gruffly that in voting to impeach Mr. Clinton, the Republicans were "voting for a resolution that says you want him thrown out of office," like it or not. From the viewpoint of most Democrats, approval in the committee makes approval in the House more likely, and a Senate trial, regardless of the outcome, would take time and sully Mr. Clinton's reputation even further.
He would be only the second President ever to face trial in the Senate, after Andrew Johnson in 1868, and his ability to function effectively, already eroded, would be further curtailed. Even now, he is neither trusted on Capitol Hill nor feared by Saddam Hussein and other enemies of the United States.
Nevertheless, some Republican members who harbored private qualms no doubt took refuge behind the conviction that nothing they did today was final. That assumption, like so many others in this saga, may prove falacious, but at the moment it is pervasive.
Yet the explanation for today's vote is more complicated than that.
Some Republican representatives have seen Mr. Clinton as unfit for the Presidency almost from the start of his term, and have never considered voting any other way than the way they voted today. Mr. Barr, the first member to call for impeachment, is described by his colleagues as falling into that category. He is not alone.
Other Republicans members, especially outside the committee, have been offended by White House tactics. Once ready, or almost ready, to give Mr. Clinton the benefit of the doubt, they have hardened against him.
When his party did far better than anticipated in the elections last month, Mr. Clinton and his advisers, like President Nixon and his, concluded that the impeachment campaign had spent its momentum. They mistook a break in the clouds for lasting sunshine. Abandoning their conciliatory tone, the President's lawyers sent provocatively unresponsive answers to 81 questions posed by the committee.
Some Republicans were also highly critical of Mr. Clinton's efforts to mobilize business leaders in their districts to accuse them of harming the economy by pressing ahead with impeachment.
The politics of the situation are complex and by no means always decisive. Representative Marge Roukema of New Jersey, a moderate who might have drawn a conservative primary challenge if she had voted against impeachment, decided to vote for it. Representative Amo Houghton of upstate New York, another moderate, was in a similar situation; his stand against impeachment evoked a threat from Jim Pierce, a heretofore marginal conservative candidate.
Privately, some Republicans said they thought a vote to impeach would prove to be popular and therefore helpful at election time in 2000. Others thought not, though several said that public opposition to ousting Mr. Clinton was combined with an indifference that had made it difficult for the President to rally public support.
Publicly, leading Republicans on the committee spoke of principle and of the necessity of doing one's duty without regard to the polls' verdict.
Representative Henry J. Hyde of Illinois, the committee's 74-year-old chairman, urged his colleagues to "vote for our honor, which is the only thing we get to take with us to the grave." A similar tack was taken by Representative Bob Inglis, a South Carolina Republican, in his own 10-minute statement.
"Thank goodness we're not a pure democracy," he said, because that would mean the majority always ruled, on every issue. If Baptists outnumbered Roman Catholics, he continued, they could outlaw Mass if they wished to.
But instead, Mr. Inglis said, "we're a constitutional republic," whose legislators owe allegiance to that document and not to public whim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION IMPEACHMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GRAND JURY (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); WITNESSES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); LAWYERS (69%); ETHICS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) BILL CLINTON (92%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (79%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



272 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Only Chile Can Judge Me, Pinochet Tells British Court
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, sternly told a London court at his first appearance in public since his arrest two months ago that he did not acknowledge the right of any court outside his own country to consider charges against him. General Pinochet made his statement at the end of a hearing on a Spanish request for his extradition to stand trial on charges of crimes against humanity. A3 

The Chilean Government moved to suspend all flights between Chile and the Falkland Islands, cutting off commercial air links between the British colony and the outside world. Foreign Minister Jose Miguel Insulza said the Chilean Government was suspending all diplomatic contacts with Britain and Spain. A3
 
Palestinian Compliance Faulted
The Palestinian Authority is not fully complying with its own commitments to recent peace accords, senior American and Israeli officials said. While Israel has frozen its compliance, Palestinians have made incendiary statements about Israeli prisoner releases and have lagged in efforts to confiscate illegal firearms and to cut the security forces, the officials said. A7
 
Bargaining in Bomb Case
American officials have indicated to German authorities that they will not seek the death penalty for a suspected aide to Osama bin Laden whose extradition the United States is seeking, a German official said. A8
 
Germany's New Attitude
The new Government of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder is showing a bold directness through its questioning of German solidarity with the European Union and NATO, and it is abandoning previous governments' policy of deference to the United States. A8
 
Fractious European Meeting
European leaders are bickering at a summit meeting in Vienna about the political and financial effects of the planned expansion of the European Union in the next decade to include formerly Communist countries, swelling membership to 20 or 25, with a population and economy far larger than those of the United States. A8
 
Cooperation on Y2K Flaw
The first global convention of government representatives to deal with the Millennium bug ended at the United Nations with an informal endorsement of regional cooperation. A5
 
Canadian P.O.W. Payments
Canadian World War II veterans who were held as slave laborers in Japanese prisoner-of-war camps will get compensation from their Government, almost 60 years after their capture during the fall of Hong Kong. About 700 veterans and surviving spouses will each get $15,600, the Canadian Government announced. A7
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A9-18
 
Partisan House Panel Votes to Impeach Clinton
The House Judiciary Committee followed fiercely partisan debate with three votes along party lines to impeach President Clinton and remove him from office. In the first vote, on perjury before the grand jury in the Monica Lewinsky matter, the count was 21 Republicans for impeachment to 16 Democrats against. In the second vote, on perjury in the Paula Jones case, one Republican, Representative Lindsey O. Graham of South Carolina, switched sides and joined the committee's 16 Democrats in voting against the article. In the third vote, on obstruction of justice in the Lewinsky case, the committee voted 21 to 16 for impeachment, strictly on party lines. The committee is to consider a fourth article today. A vote by the full House is expected late next week. A1
 
The President again expressed regret for his conduct and invited Congress to censure him as an alternative to impeachment. But he did not make the sort of admission that some Republicans were looking for -- that he had lied under oath. Republican leaders seemed unmoved by his remarks, and White House officials said Republican leaders had told them that they were determined to block a House vote on censure. A1
 
$8.2 Billion in Legal Fees
The lawyers who represented the first three states to settle with the tobacco industry over health care costs were awarded $8.2 billion in fees, the richest legal payday in the nation's history. The fees, to be paid by the industry, will not affect the states' $34.4 billion settlement. A1
 
4 Die in Gas Explosion
A natural-gas line explosion in St. Cloud, Minn., killed 4 people, injured 14 others and leveled three buildings in a one-block area. A9
 
Ex-Governor Pleads Guilty
Former Gov. Edward D. DiPrete of Rhode Island pleaded guilty to 18 charges of corruption, admitting that he accepted bribes and extorted money from contractors. A18
 
Spacecraft Heads for Mars
The Mars Climate Orbiter, the first of two NASA science probes, took off from Cape Canaveral, Fla. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
SUNY Trustees Consider Changing Core Curriculum
SUNY, led by a conservatively oriented board of trustees, appears ready to overhaul undergraduate education by adopting a new core curriculum for all students, beginning with students entering the university in the fall of 2000. The trustees are set to vote on Tuesday. B1
 
Union Inquiry Studies a Charity
Officials investigating corruption within District Council 37, New York City's largest municipal union, are looking into whether contributions that William Cutolo solicited from labor leaders in the name of leukemia research ever made it to medical professionals. Law enforcement authorities list Mr. Cutolo, who sits on the board of the National Leukemia Research Association, as a capo in the Colombo crime family. B1
 
Limits on Upgrading Schools
Hundreds of school will at best be upgraded to "fair" condition over the next five years even if the New York City Board of Education can raise the $11 billion it has requested for repairs and expansion, school officials said. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
OBITUARIES A19
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-18
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
DiMaggio Emerges From Coma
Joe DiMaggio revived from an overnight coma, moved his head and squeezed his doctor's hand. But the doctor said DiMaggio's condition remained very serious and could change at any time. D1
 
Top-Level N.B.A. Talks
The N.B.A. commissioner, David Stern, and Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players union, will meet in Manhattan today in an effort to salvage what is left of the season. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Foreign Sales Hurt Coke
Coca-Cola said weak markets overseas had hurt its fourth-quarter performance more than expected. Still, it announced the $1.85 billion purchase of overseas rights to Cadbury-Schweppes soft drinks. C1
 
Warm Weather Dulls Sales
Retailers say unseasonably balmy temperatures have dampened sales of many winter items. C1
 
Japan Set to Nationalize Bank
Japan appears to be on the verge of nationalizing the Nippon Credit Bank, with its $100 billion in assets, a move that would foreshadow a wider cleanup of the banking system. C1
 
An End to New Loans
Nomura Holding America plans to have its Capital Company of America stop making loans and to sell off $10 billion in existing loans. C2
 
A Challenge to Microsoft
A Princeton computer science expert, who will testify on Monday at the Microsoft antitrust trial, says he has done what Microsoft has insisted is impossible: extricate Internet Explorer software from Windows. Microsoft disputed the claim. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Contrition without confession; schools should not be poker chips; citizen activists on human rights; Governor Pataki's wise choice.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B17
 
Weather B17
 
Crossword B14

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARRESTS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GRAND JURY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); WORLD WAR II (66%); VETERANS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (60%); FIREARMS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



273 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 12, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
DECISION ON LONG BEACH ASSEMBLY PLANT IS REVERSED

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Reversing a decision made four months ago, the Boeing Company will not open a 737 passenger jet assembly line at the former Douglas Aircraft plant in Long Beach, Calif. Production tangles at the 737 factory in Renton, Wash., have been unsnarled, and the Asian economic crisis has lowered demand enough that a new production site is no longer needed, said Dick Pearson, vice president and general manager of Boeing's Long Beach division. To try to keep as many as 400 of the 600 workers whose jobs are endangered by the decision, Boeing will begin offering overhauls called lap joint modifications on older 737's next year in Long Beach, Mr. Pearson said. Lap joints, overlapping the outer skin of the fuselage, are subject to fatigue cracks over time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONG BEACH, CA, USA (99%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (72%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BEACH (CALIF); UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); LONG BEACH, CA, USA (99%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); 

PERSON: DICK PEARSON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1998



274 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: Artful Dodgers

BYLINE: By William R. Everdell; William R. Everdell teaches history at St. Ann's School in Brooklyn and is the author of "The First Moderns."

 BODY:

THE NEIGHBORHOODS
OF BROOKLYN
Introduction by Kenneth T. Jackson.
John B. Manbeck, consulting editor.
Illustrated. 246 pp. New Haven:
Citizens Committee for New York City/ Yale University Press. $29.95 
 More like a catalogue than an encyclopedia, "The Neighborhoods of Brooklyn" consists of short illustrated chapters on 47 big-city neighborhoods, a baseball team and a bridge. The bridge is a century old, the ball club is long gone, but the neighborhoods are alive and kicking. Brooklyn is on a roll these days, "an urban delight," as this book says; and these neighborhoods, with their fuzzy boundaries that so rarely show up on a map, are Brooklyn. Each one has a real existence, streets full of people, a history and a separate state of mind. And beyond the 47 that rate their own chapters are the scores of smaller ones (like Homecrest, which abuts Sheepshead Bay) that appear only in parentheses.
Shaped since Brooklyn's birth in the 1630's by the different ways residents have used to get in and get out of them (the ferry, the horsecar, the trolley, the bicycle, the brisk walk, the subway and even, southeast of Flatbush, the automobile), the "hoods" have had three centuries to evolve, and have come to expect a long and vigorous future. Indeed, since something they call the "renaissance" began in the late 1960's, Brooklynites have become tireless and almost tiresome in their boosterism. "The Neighborhoods of Brooklyn" is hardly the first book in this vein. Now, 40 years after the Dodgers' betrayal and The Brooklyn Eagle's last issue and 100 years since the city's absorption by New York, a revived Eagle is on the newsstands, and stacks of folio Brooklyn books threaten to punch right through the old hardwood floors of all those row houses.
But this Brooklyn book comes not from a neighborhood association or a real estate sales campaign but out of an ad hoc scholarly program, a civic-minded effort to reintegrate the great American cities into American culture. The task is surprisingly difficult. We Americans have always tended to insist that "nature" civilizes better than the cities that created civilization and still sustain it, though this is a very strange idea in the ancestor culture of Europe. When the Dodgers departed and The Eagle folded, American history was at just the point where the population of cities, as defined by the census, was exceeded by the population of noncities, suburbs and the like. It was then that the political agenda of the cities, the "New Deal liberalism" that had flourished between the 1920 and 1960 censuses, began to be replaced by the "emerging Republican majority." The tilt to the suburbs is a major event in American history, though it is now overshadowed in the history texts I teach from by the contemporaneous cold war. If the textbooks ever demote the cold war for this more important event, Brooklyn will be a major example of it, and the "further reading" will be books by Kenneth Jackson.
Jackson is a scholar, and scholars cannot command much better placement in national media than the rest of us. One form of scholarly ambition is to be known beyond the boundaries of one's own small subdivision of a discipline -- to be read, listened to and made use of in the towns and counties of scholarship spread over more than one of its states. By this measure Jackson, a historian of the contemporary United States, is a major American voice, with well over 300 citations in the past 10 years in publications covering fields that neighbor history and employ it, including archeology, antiques, geography, political science, ecology, economics, urban studies and law. It has taken time. There were far fewer Jackson citations in the previous decade, and most were for a book called "Crabgrass Frontier" (1985), which was the first comprehensive history of suburbanization in the United States and stands, with John Stilgoe's "Borderland," as the best. Other living scholars are more widely cited -- more famous in this measurable sense -- but Jackson is cited for things that are notably unpalatable to the news media and others who control public access to the national debate. His work makes cities look good, cars look bad and privatization seem a decidedly mixed blessing for democratic republicans -- or for a citizen majority. "Crabgrass Frontier," its fuse ticking away in the obscurity of scholarly exchange, is a mine set under some of the more important load-bearing pillars of the current social order.
No mere theorist, but an established, unpolemical historian who knows cities inside and out, Jackson is a New Yorker by choice, not inheritance. Born in 1939 in Memphis and a graduate of Memphis State University, Jackson in his first book, "The Ku Klux Klan in the City" (1967), devastatingly anatomized how American fascism was organized in cities like Memphis by people who hated city values. After a stint in Chicago, Jackson came to teach at Columbia University in 1968, the year of student upheaval; he is still there. By now, his contributions to his adoptive city have made him what was once called a "leading citizen"; and the big folio "Encyclopedia of New York City" that he edited in 1995 has become an instant classic, its authoritative details turning up in ever larger numbers in the gamut of New York's journalism. In each book, Jackson has conscientiously plumbed sources both vast and various, from statistical abstracts to dusty local histories by provincial patriots (Brooklyn has more than its share of those), and made them part of a national -- even a global -- story about the rise, sprawl and decline of big cities.
"The Neighborhoods of Brooklyn" continues the project of a pro-urban urban history, this time by detailing in charming and highly accessible form the facts about a city that works. Once a county of six farming villages, now more populous than Boston, San Francisco, St. Louis and Atlanta combined, Brooklyn has been around since the story started. It was, in fact, created by suburbanization -- of the pre-automobile variety. (Contemporary escapees from the suburbs to Brooklyn Heights should know that Jackson's "Crabgrass Frontier" correctly identified this neighborhood -- my own -- as the first true commuter suburb in the world, dating from the opening of Fulton's ferry to New York in 1814.)
Yet after King's County's 81 square miles were all built on, low-rise Brooklyn found itself densely settled enough to be a city. By comparison with later suburbs, its transportation links -- wharfs, streets and rails -- took up little of its space. Its factories, though collectively strong enough to have made Brooklyn one of the most productive cities in the world until the 1940's, were individually not so big. The lots Brooklynites built on were relatively small, and public land was sparse, even by comparison with Manhattan. The tree that grew in Brooklyn grew on a street (in the Williamsburg neighborhood), and even today the best way to survey the public spaces of Brooklyn is from the seat of a bicycle. Pictures of greensward in this book emphasize how precious parkland still is, and make Bay Ridge, Cypress Hills, Brooklyn Heights, Flatbush, Fort Greene, Park Slope, Prospect Heights, Prospect-Lefferts Gardens, Prospect Park South and Windsor Terrace look embarrassingly rich. There are, of course, beaches, which is why the former summer colonies of Bath Beach, Bergen Beach, Brighton Beach, Coney Island, Gerritsen Beach, Manhattan Beach, Mill Basin, Sea Gate and Sheepshead Bay lose playgrounds in the winter. Perhaps the only true tycoons are Dyker Heights and Marine Park, with beaches on one end and parks on the other.
In any case, the principal public spaces in this city of former suburbs are not parks but streets, and the streets show every kind of variety. Their complicated history has given these neighborhoods the kind of public civility and cooperation among strangers that makes cities livable and discourages citizens from moving out. Brooklyn is so determinedly provincial, so conspicuously lacking in resident celebrities (even Richard Wright and Spike Lee eventually left Fort Greene), and so peaceful in recent years, that outsiders don't take much account of its astonishing mix of peoples; but that mix is still world-class. With the exception of Sea Gate (one of the nation's earliest gated communities), the Brooklyn neighborhoods constitute the most wide-open multiethnic settlements anywhere. Whatever it is that makes up the state of mind of a Sunset Park or a Boerum Hill, it has repeatedly shown itself capable of trumping other loyalties, including creed, color and even class. Crown Heights was settled in the 1600's, like South Africa, by Dutch farmers and their African slaves. It blossomed in the 19th century with freedmen's villages, and a suburb that mixed otherwise feuding European-Americans from England, Ireland, Germany, Italy and Scandinavia. Now its majority is about evenly divided between English-speaking, Spanish-speaking and French-speaking Caribbean-Americans on the one hand and Lubavitcher Hasidim on the other. The two subcultures are now slowly backing off from a 1991 confrontation that made headlines, and cooperating in a community-service group called Project CURE!, trying to turn the recently hostile residents back into citizens.
So it is only right that the neighborhood should be the organizing principle for this book. The alphabet might serve for Jackson's New York encyclopedia, but for Brooklyn only the neighborhood idea can bring myriad details together.
The details are mostly accurate, but one shouldn't demand the same sort of precision as one might from the Encyclopedia Britannica. Local history drips with little myths and although Jackson, the consulting editor, John B. Manbeck, and other members of the team are conscientious about dismissing them, a few creep in. For example, Buffalo Bill's Wild West show played in Ambrose Park (now Bush Terminal in Sunset Park) in June 1894, not 1892, and St. Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights ceased being a church school more than 15 years ago.
On the other hand, Thomas Wolfe, who never again lived in Carolina, did indeed write "You Can't Go Home Again" in Brooklyn Heights and "Only the Dead Know Brooklyn" in Cobble Hill. Now, thanks to Kenneth Jackson, you can find out where those places are even if you are still alive.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NEIGHBORHOODS OF BROOKLYN, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; HISTORY; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); BASEBALL (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LITERATURE (75%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CENSUS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); LIBERALISM (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: EVERDELL, WILLIAM R; JACKSON, KENNETH T; MANBECK, JOHN B CLARE SHORT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



275 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
On Amtrak, Full Speed Ahead

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
AMTRAK is pleased with itself this fall. It considered Thanksgiving week, usually its heaviest travel period of the year, a success, apparently with a record rider total -- the figures were still being added last week. And on the Monday after the holiday weekend, it dedicated two more of its fancy new trains in the Pacific Northwest.
Just before that, it reported that its passenger total increased by a million in the year that ended in September, a rise of 4.5 percent, the biggest jump in a decade. Revenues also topped $1 billion for the first time since Congress created Amtrak 27 years ago. What's going on? 
 Quite a bit, according to officials at the railroad, which is struggling to meet its mandate of self-sufficiency by 2002. It is not there yet: for the coming year, Congress put $609 million into the budget to help Amtrak meet its deficits; this does not count a special item of $40 million to convert New York's General Post Office into an Amtrak concourse to supplement Penn Station.
One cause of the increase in ridership is the same thing that is sending hotel occupancies and flights up the charts: in a better economy, people travel more. John Wolf, a spokesman for Amtrak, said that the railroad had not yet studied the demographics. So the line does not know if the graying of America, which is producing more people who cannot fly for health reasons or will not fly for psychological reasons, has had a major effect, or if the baby-boomers' taste for travel with their children is a factor.
Mr. Wolf says that the increase in riders is across the board and has no geographic center, with the heavily traveled corridors, the long-distance services like the Empire Builder from Chicago to Seattle, even the sparser trains in the middle of the country, all showing rises.
 
Some Riders' Reactions
To be sure, some of those riders are less than thrilled.
The Ralph W. Richardsons of Lewes, Del., represent two new but disillusioned riders. They took a train trip to California in September and back in October rather than fly. The problems, Mr. Richardson said, ranged from difficulty in making reservations to misinformation on bathroom locations to monotonous desserts. "We doubt we will use Amtrak again for long trips," Mr. Richardson wrote to Amtrak, with a copy to The Times.
It's possible that passengers making shorter trips find things easier; interviews in Penn Station in New York early this month found people reasonably satisfied with the service.
Pat Lawrence of Brooklyn, who recently discovered club class travel, was heading for Providence to see her daughter. She was sitting in the first-class lounge, drinking coffee, and in a cheerful mood. She said an earlier club car trip on the Empire Service to Rochester convinced her the money was worth it. "I like the leg room, and I will get breakfast and lunch as part of the ticket," she said.
Another passenger, Barbara Lieberman, who had lined up for the Adirondack to go to Rhinecliff, N.Y., laughed when asked about the service. On her last trip, she said, she ordered her tickets by mail and the line sent someone else's ticket. This time, she said, they got it right the first time. "But they were pleasant about it," she said. "They are always pleasant."
Two women from Boston, old friends who came to New York on a Saturday and were returning on Wednesday, said they were delighted to have the travel time together. "We chatted the whole five hours," said one of them, Helene Hoffrichter. Ms. Hoffrichter and her friend, who did not want to give her name, said that with trips to and from airports, the air shuttle was not much faster, and it was certainly "very expensive."
While Amtrak fares for the rest of the country are priced by yield-management, meaning they fluctuate with demand, the fares in the Northeast corridor are predictable. In unreserved coach, Boston-New York costs $45 one way, except between 11 A.M. and 11 P.M. Fridays and Sundays, when the fare is $54. Between Washington and New York, the unreserved coach fare is $62 except for the Friday-Sunday periods, when it is $77. A one-way Metroliner club car ticket is $107.
During the week, Delta and US Airways charge walk-up passengers $202 one way between La Guardia and Logan, in Boston, or Ronald Reagan Airport, in Washington; on weekends the fare is $90 until early Sunday afternoon.
 
Adding, Not Cutting, Service
 One change Amtrak has made is to restore daily or five-day schedules for those trains it has kept, instead of limiting service to, say, three days a week. The City of New Orleans linking Chicago and the Crescent City, which in 1995 indeed had the disappearing railroad blues, is now back in daily service. The California Zephyr, likewise squeezed, is making its way daily in each direction between Chicago and Emeryville, Calif., near San Franciso. The Mohawk between New York and Niagara Falls, N.Y., was restored to daily service westbound and Monday to Saturday eastbound, after three years of running only four days a week.
Daily service is not universal: the 60-hour trip on the Sunset Limited between Disneyland and Disney World -- Los Angeles and Orlando -- operates three days a week in each direction. And many cities have only bus links to trains. But Amtrak has found that if people use a train, daily service brings a marked increase in riders.
Analysis of its markets and consistency are two of Amtrak's basic projects, Mr. Wolf said. A third is the development of faster service in the major corridors. In the Pacific Northwest, the new Talgo trains are going into service on the Cascades routes between Vancouver, British Columbia, and Eugene, Ore., via Seattle and Portland, Ore. The Mount Baker, the Mount Hood and the Mount Rainier have been bought for this project, replacing leased equipment. They make the Portland-Seattle run in three and a half hours instead of the usual four and a half.
The Northeast project, which requires changing the power between New Haven and Boston to electricity from diesel, is due for completion next summer. When new trains go into service, the 231-mile trip between New York and Boston should be reduced to three hours from five, Mr. Wolf said. If the three hours works out, it would put the Boston-New York run on a par with the New York-Washington run of 226 miles, covered in three hours on the extra-fare Metroliner.
R. Clifford Black 4th, the line's director of public affairs, said extra-fare trains would be added east of New York City when the new service began. It has not been decided, he said, if passengers will be able to remain aboard for the whole route -- Union Station, Washington, to South Station, Boston.
A constant sticking point on the New Haven-Boston route has been the grade crossings. Warren B. Flatau, of the Federal Railroad Administration, says there are 13 on the route, 12 of them in Connecticut. These require the trains to slow up, and there have been political struggles concerning railroad speed and local safety. The Government, with the help of the Connecticut Department of Transportation and Amtrak, last summer installed a test gate in West Mystic, Conn. This closes off four lanes of traffic. In addition, there are treadles on the spot where the road crosses the tracks, which send signals to the engineer if there is something on the right of way, in which case the train slows to 20 miles an hour. The gate cost $1 million, with the Government paying most of the bill.
There has been a steady reduction in car-train fatalities in the country. In 1997, there were 461 deaths at grade crossings nationwide; in '96 the figure was 488, and in '95, 579.
In other areas of the Northeast, the popular Clocker trains between Philadelphia and New York, and the Keystone service in Pennsylvania, were not meeting demand, which had risen more than 10 percent; trains have now been added.
Amtrak is also trying to stay in better touch with its potential riders, with training and new telephone systems. Mr. Wolf said it put callers to its information and reservation number, (800) 872-7245, on hold for an average of 41 seconds in the last fiscal year, compared with 55 seconds in 1997. A new phone center is in place in Riverside, Calif., joining one in Chicago. Another is on the way in Philadelphia. The people who answer phones are being trained to deal more effectively with callers.
 
Selling Tickets on the Web
 The line's Web site, www.amtrak .com, was overhauled, Mr. Wolf said, because it was "difficult to navigate." October was the first full month of the new operation. The Web site is handling a lot of sales: in the year ended September 1997, 4,000 tickets were sold on-line; in the year just ended, 16,000 were sold.
The food service has also been looked at, Mr. Wolf said. New menus were put on the Northeast corridor in November, and plastic cards have been placed in seat pockets to advertise what can be bought at the cafe car counter; four wrap sandwiches and a pastrami on marbleized rye bread are among the offerings. What else? "We're refurbishing our equipment and stations," he added. "We want to revitalize our brand, change the way people think about us."
However, the Richardsons' letter, sent Oct. 25, had not been answered by Dec. 7.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rupert Howard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (70%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (70%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); AIRLINES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY JOHN R WOLF (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



276 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2977 words

HEADLINE: Art That's a Dragon With Two Heads

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
FOR most people who grew up in postwar America, China was invisible. One of the world's poorest, most populous and politically most powerful countries, it was certainly there, but only as an enigma, a four-million-square-mile Forbidden City.
No one from the outside (the superstition ran) could get in; no one on the inside could get out. A battened-down version of Marxist Communism, culminating in the fanaticism of the Cultural Revolution of the 1960's and 70's, was in place, as elaborate in its hierarchies and protocols as any religion or imperial dynasty. Devotion was obligatory; dissent could be lethal. 
 Within a few years of Mao's death in 1976, things started to change. The political orthodoxy held firm; Tiananmen proved that. But with the arrival of a capitalist economy, cultural innovations kicked in and everyday urban life turned surreal. Kentucky Fried Chickens hatched in Beijing; once-reviled imperial monuments were rehabilitated as theme parks; Cultural Revolutionary campfire songs were set to a rock beat.
And bit by bit, China came West. During the 1980's and 90's, contemporary Chinese culture, sometimes tailored to non-Chinese tastes, gained an international presence. Fiction by mainland writers regularly appeared in English. The opera "Marco Polo" by Tan Dun was produced in New York last season. Films by Chen Kaige ("Farewell, My Concubine") and Zhang Yimou ("Raise the Red Lantern") have picked up awards and played at Manhattan theaters.
One much-anticipated import never arrived. The classic Ming-dynasty drama "The Peony Pavilion," performed by the Shanghai Kungju Opera under the direction of Chen Shi-zheng and billed as the centerpiece of last summer's Lincoln Center Festival, was derailed at the 11th hour by the Chinese Government.
Rumors of official muscle-flexing also buzzed around the Guggenheim Museum's "China: 5,000 Years" last spring, when the show's selection of avant-garde art, much of it produced since 1989 and marked by Western contemporary influences, was suddenly jettisoned, for lack of floor space, the museum said. (The Guggenheim subsequently issued a press release announcing that a separate show of contemporary work was planned for the summer of 1999, though no such show, in fact, has been scheduled so far for that time.)
As it happens, vanguard work made it to New York this fall in "Inside Out: New Chinese Art," an exhibition organized by the Asia Society in Manhattan and installed there and at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City (through Jan. 3). It is the largest gathering of its kind in the West to date, and the first to take a broad-spectrum look at new work from across the Chinese-speaking world, including the mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and artists living abroad.
The result is a sprawling affair, a pileup of media, styles and philosophies, from brush and ink painting to installation art, mock-propaganda to Pop, Dada to Daoism, exemplary of a "global" art that promises to have increasing visibility in the years to come. The question is: How well does it play in the West?
There are problems. Hard-core admirers of the Chinese classical tradition -- a tradition entirely about tradition, about transmitting a cultural ideal intact from one generation to the next -- are likely to dismiss much of the new work out of hand as trendy, irresolute, barely Chinese at all.
But anyone coming from deep inside Western contemporary art, with its fixation on ceaseless novelty, may find the art uncool for other reasons, seeing, at first glance anyway, only familiar Western styles -- Surrealism, Conceptualism and so on -- warmed over and, here and there, updated with post-modern tics.
NEITHER view is entirely wrong. But they both miss the wider, more complicated, often contradictory story of an art that has only been around for a decade and a half and is changing at lightning speed. Emerging from a country that is juggling a Communist Government and capitalist economy, the new Chinese art seems increasingly to be looking backward as well as forward, interweaving styles that the impatient West feels it knows all too well with traditions that it barely understands at all.
As to how this new Chinese work emerged, some comparative history is helpful.
In America, the decades after World War II were an explosively inventive time for art, with Abstract Expressionism giving way to Happenings, Minimalism to Earth Art, in a kind of fever-chart sequence.
In China during roughly the same years, and particularly during the decade-long Cultural Revolution, the officially sanctioned art style was Socialist Realism, along with certain folk and popular styles. Traditional painting was tolerated, sometimes even avidly encouraged, though it was often politically tinged. With doors to the West effectively shut for more than 20 years beginning in 1950, updated information on modern art, which had had an impact on China earlier in the century, was scant.
With the collapse of the Cultural Revolution, outside information arrived fast, giving a generation of artists born after 1949 -- which means almost all of the artists in the Asia Society show -- a crash course in Western art history from Giotto to Jeff Koons. Contemporary work in particular offered exhilarating possibilities: fresh formal options, a shot at the international mainstream, and -- initially, at least -- a vehicle for political resistance.
Art in China has always been about power. Its aura of timeless, near-mystical authority has been called upon by every ruling class -- imperial or Communist -- to advertise legitimacy. It has insured social advancement for artists and patrons alike. To a degree only sporadically true in the West, it has been a primary medium of intellectual discourse.
Whether artists were attached by appointment to the court or by profession to the academy, or were living in disaffected retreat from both, they were expected to comment critically, if obliquely, on the world around them through a narrow vocabulary of coded images, most of these drawn from nature.
This "commentarial" impulse was much evident in the new art of the 1980's. With the Cultural Revolution still fresh in memory, young artists began filtering its esthetic preferences through off-the-rack Western models. Socialist Realism was retooled as an ambivalently debunking style known as Political Pop, with Mao as a central image.
For decades, Mao's droopy, pear-shaped face had loomed over China like an all-powerful Oz, intimidating and reassuring, a revered but crotchety parent, subject to mood swings and with a dangerous mean streak. In a well-known triple oil-on-canvas portrait by the early Political Pop artist Wang Guangyi, Mao is seen as a gray marmoreal presence set behind a grid of solid black lines, as if he or the viewer were confined behind, and perhaps protected by, prison bars.
Paintings like this have been popular in the West and taken as proof that all Chinese avant-garde work is, by definition, "dissident" and counter-revolutionary, though this is not the case. Wang Guangyi's painting, with its debt to Warhol, is an ambiguous image, reflecting to some degree the general popular attitude toward Mao in China: critical but, as the horrors of the Cultural Revolution are softened by time, also deeply nostalgic.
A 1990's painting trend known as Cynical Realism shifts its attention away from a revolutionary past to an equally, if differently problematic present: a rapidly Westernizing China of stampeding commercialism, bureaucratic corruption and social inequities. Interestingly, Cynical Realism -- represented by artists like Cao Yong and Song Yongping, both of whom appear in the show at the Asia Society -- sells well on the Western-based market and so has become part of the capitalistic system it rebukes. And at least one of its most visible exponents, Fang Lijun, a member of the early 1980's avant-garde, has become a wealthy man.
Mr. Fang's signature images of yawning, bald, look-alike men originated as a version of peasant figures and may convey a sense of existential ennui to Western eyes. But among some of his colleagues, he is regarded as a sell-out, producing rote, sure-fire pictures for money, while enjoying the rewards of haute-bourgeois privilege in Beijing.
An entrepreneurial avant-garde of the kind Mr. Fang represents has long been familiar in the West, perhaps most recently in the high-priced "consumer critique" Neo-Geo of the 1980's. And it is fast gaining ground in China. But few vanguard artists at the moment share his luxe life style. Art still falls into officially approved and disapproved categories, with certain forms -- installation art, in particular, with its often disruptive physical presence and hard-to-read open-ended meanings -- seen as especially likely to convey problematic messages.
That suspicion is often well founded, as it was in the case of a 1996 public installation by Wang Jin in Zhengzhou City. In response to a commission by the city government to create a sculpture for a new shopping mall, the artist froze a trove of high-end consumer items -- cellular phones, jewelry -- into big blocks of ice, then stacked the blocks to form a wall (itself a resonant symbol throughout China's isolationist history). When the wall was completed, a near riot ensued as a frenzied crowd hacked through the ice to get at the goods locked inside.
Because the current Government is anxious to look liberal and with-it in the world's eyes, it may not suppress such work outright. But it does its best to make life difficult for the artists by controlling access to public exhibition spaces, including those at art schools, almost all of which are state owned.
One solution has been to create ephemeral public works. Wang Jin's ice wall is an example; so is a piece entitled "To Raise the Water Level in a Fishpond" by the conceptual artist Zhang Huan, one of the outstanding figures in the Asia Society show. For this work, Mr. Zhang rounded up dozens of itinerant urban male workers -- China's newest disenfranchised class -- and photographed them standing at shoulder height in a Beijing pool, isolated from one another and from the city itself, to suggest their political inconsequentiality in post-Maoist China. In a solo performance at P.S. 1 in October, the artist subjected himself to a physical endurance test with spiritual and political implications. The main prop was a Chinese-style bed with a "mattress" made of ice on which he lay naked and face down for 10 minutes or so, as if symbolically trying to melt a cultural permafrost with his body heat.
Other artists have started holding exhibitions in their homes to an audience made up largely of peers. Two installation artists, Wang Gongxin and Lin Tian-miao, husband and wife (she is one of the few women in the Asia Society show), have been credited with initiating so-called "apartment art" when, in 1994, they arranged a one-night-only show in Mr. Wang's parents' home in Beijing. News spread by word of mouth; hundreds of people showed up.
The format has been widely copied. The police appear to be aware of the exhibitions but so far have interfered only in cases where the material shown is either sexually explicit or directly critical of the Government. (The gender-bending nude performances by the charismatic young artist Ma Liuming, who also made a memorable appearance at P.S. 1 in October, have been raided and closed down. Both Mr. Ma and Zhang Huan will have exhibitions in Manhattan galleries this season.)
A domestic context for art has a long history in China. For centuries, classical forms -- ink and brush painting and calligraphy -- were produced in a roughly comparable "open studio" environment. Scholar-artists created their work in private for a few friends, never intending public display. In "apartment art," a traditional idea has become avant-garde.
The mingling of new and old may well prove to be the wave of the future. Where, in the early 1980's, much new Chinese art sought to shake itself free from tradition by looking Westward, in the 1990's, artists are reclaiming those traditions, if only to question them closely.
Much new art takes as its subject one of the most cherished of China's high-art forms, the written word, with its history of obsessive, ritualistic copying from century to century. The Beijing-based artist Qiu Zhijie has copied out a classic text called the "Orchid Pavilion Preface" a thousand times on a single scroll until the surface of the paper has turned black. Another Beijing artist, Song Dong, writes with plain water on a flat stone. The words evaporate within seconds.
Both artists have work at P.S. 1. So does the conceptualist Zhang Peili, an influential figure with a solid and growing international reputation. He is represented by a 1992 video that takes a sly, iconoclastic, new-media look at the authority invested in words. He hired the star newscaster of China's state-controlled television station, Xin Zhibin, who had been the first to report the Tiananmen massacre, and filmed her reading a dictionary definition of water as if it were a news report.
Sometimes playing with language has touched an official nerve. Wenda Gu began his career in China in the mid-1980's as an academically trained calligrapher and ink painter. But when in 1986 he exhibited pieces that incorporated invented Chinese characters, the Government closed the show. The work was perceived as subverting a sacrosanct tradition, and (the authorities suspected) as carrying coded political messages.
Mr. Gu moved to the United States a year later and has since produced fictional versions of both Western and non-Western languages. His spectacular P.S. 1 installation, "Temple of Heaven," commissioned by the Asia Society for the show, amounts to a kind of visual Babel, with floor-to-ceiling scrims of invented letters and pictograph characters shaped from human hair.
Another Chinese emigre to the United States, Xu Bing, also deconstructs language. His monumental installation, "A Book From the Sky," was an avant-garde landmark when it first appeared in Beijing in 1988. Reconstituted at P.S. 1, it consists of hundreds of hand-printed books filled entirely with Chinese-looking nonsense characters.
In an art world much concerned at present with questions of cultural identity and diaspora, both artists are quintessential global figures, a role with advantages as well as pitfalls. On the one hand, their work gets attention on the expanding circuit of international biennials and triennials. At the same time, their positioning between cultures requires that they sustain a careful balancing act, neither playing down their "Chineseness" too much nor turning it into an exoticizing chinoiserie.
(Although both artists exhibit in mainstream New York institutions -- Mr. Xu has an installation at the New Museum in SoHo through Jan. 10 -- they seem to occupy a social position at the periphery of the local art world, keeping close ties to friends and colleagues in China. A third artist, Cai Guo-qiang, a veteran of two Venice Biennales and short-listed for the Guggenheim's Hugo Boss prize two years ago, is now based in New York but speaks no English.)
Similar negotiations of identity are evident in vanguard art emerging in Taiwan and Hong Kong, where artists are trying to create work that both acknowledges but disengages itself from Chinese tradition. And the conflict is increasingly evident in China itself. Zhang Peili -- who has a very funny video piece currently on view at the Museum of Modern Art -- recently observed that although a decade ago he wanted only to escape from tradition, he has revised his view.
"It's like living with your father and grandfather in the same house," he said. "You have different life styles; you probably won't get along very well. There will be many problems. But once you start to live apart, your feelings change. Affection develops. You miss each other. After all, this is a bond of blood."
It is a bond that, like all family ties, can take unpredictable directions. Historically, every time Western influence has gained ascendance in China, a revivalist wave of traditional culture has followed. Whether this will prove true once again remains to be seen. (In fact, traditional styles are still widely practiced, as in the case of a strain of "new literati" painting.) But there is no question that some recent Chinese art has a distinctly nationalistic, implicitly anti-Western bent.
One example is an arresting installation at P.S. 1 entitled "Borrowing Your Enemy's Arrows," by Cai Guo-qiang. It consists of a wooden fishing boat suspended in midair and pierced with thousands of arrows, and illustrates the legend of a Chinese general who in a naval battle sent an empty boat toward his enemies to attract their fire and then used their arrows against them.
IS China's new art based on such opportunistic strategies, fulfilling Mao's famous directive to make foreign things serve China? Some of it is certainly geared to turning a fast profit in the Western market, especially while "Chinese" is hot in the way "Korean" was a few years ago. But the most original work has more challenging things on its mind: How to forge a shaping role within a China that is itself in a crisis of change, and in a larger world where multinational business and telecommunications have made the very issue of cultural identity seem almost as irrelevant as it is urgent.
Whatever directions Chinese art follows, a Western audience will have to take note of it and learn to meet it on its own terms. The China of the Forbidden City may still be an enigma, but in a world of shrinking physical size and eroding cultural boundaries, it is also the house just across the street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhang Huan, back to camera, a conceptual artist, during a performance in the courtyard of P.S. 1 in Long Island City in which he lay naked on a bed of ice, as if symbolically trying to melt a cultural permafrost. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 01); Among the 80 artists in the current Asia Society show "Inside Out: New Chinese Art" are, from left, Cao Yong, Zhang Peili, Ma Liuming, Xu Bing, Wang Peng, Wenda Gu, Lin Tian-miao and Song Yongping, photographed at the society. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIA SOCIETY INSIDE OUT NETWORKS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; HONG KONG; TAIWAN; CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ART MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); FESTIVALS (68%); EXHIBITIONS (66%); WRITERS (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND ZHANG YIMOU (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



277 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
Plans Filed to Double Harmon Cove Outlet Space

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FROM a single store carved from a boxy warehouse 20 years ago the outlet district in the Harmon Cove area of the Secaucus Meadowlands grew through 1990 to 120 shops with a total of 650,000 square feet.
Since then increasing competition from other retail centers has taken a toll on the district, considered the grandfather of the outlet concept in New Jersey. It is a patchwork of small outlet malls and a string of warehouse stores scattered over the 700 acres that make up the 14 million square foot Harmon Cove industrial, commercial and residential area. 
 Now applications have been filed for two additional malls that, if realized, together would more than double the existing outlet-mall space. One is a 300,000-square-foot complex designed in a village-like setting, which its developers hope will inject new life into the entire district. The mall, which would be called Prime Outlets at Secaucus, would contain some 70 stores with an average of 3,000 square feet each lining two or three landscaped shopping streets. There would also be a children's play area, a food court and parking for 1,500 cars.
The project would rise on 35 acres along Secaucus Road, not far from Meadowlands Parkway, the main entrance off Route 3 to Harmon Cove. It would be the first center built from the ground up in the outlet district.
The developer is a joint venture between Prime Retail, a real estate investment trust based in Baltimore that is the largest owner and manager of outlet centers in the nation, according to Retail Value News, a trade journal in Clearwater, Fla., and Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus. Hartz, which developed Harmon Cove over the last 29 years, owns two existing outlet centers in the district that together total some 50 stores with 231,021 square feet of space.
The partners will finance the project, expected to cost $40 million, with 75 percent of their own equity and the rest in bank financing.
At the same time, another developer plans to convert an existing 433,000-square-foot warehouse, across Secaucus Road into an enclosed outlet center. The developer is Mikasa, the dinnerware giant that owns thewarehouse.
Both projects still need to secure approvals from the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, the autonomous state agency that regulates development in the 32-square-mile Meadowlands region.
The projects are proceeding at a time when the statewide retail vacancy rate is under 3 percent, according to TKO Real Estate Advisory Group, a retail consulting firm in Mercerville.
Ted Kraus, who heads TKO, said outlets increasingly are confronted by discounts dangled in front of consumers by department stores as well as off-price retailers like Marshall's and T. J. Maxx and discounters like Wal-Mart and Target. While consumer confidence "seems to be growing again and people are spending, they are doing so much more carefully and they want value for their dollars," he said.
Though the price gap among various types of stores is shrinking, a recent survey by Consumer Reports concluded that "outlets almost always provide the better deal." Overall, the survey showed that prices at outlets were anywhere from 5 to 50 percent below their mainstream competitors and that the average discount was about 25 percent.
Despite the competition, factory outlets continue to grow. Nationwide there are some 13,000 outlet stores today, up from 11,603 in 1995, according to Retail Value News. The journal now counts 303 outlet centers.
In addition to the existing outlet district in Secaucus, other factory outlet centers in New Jersey include those in Flemington and Jackson. There are also value-oriented centers, which include outlet stores as well as large discount retailers, like the 1.3 million-square-foot center under development in Elizabeth by the Glimcher Realty Trust of Columbus, Ohio. Another, with more than 2 million square feet, is being proposed in the Meadowlands region in Carlstadt by the Mills Corporation of Arlington, Va.
But the Mills project is embroiled in a debate over whether to bend Federal wetlands policy to allow new development. The mall would require filling about 200 acres of the already shrinking marshes in the Meadowlands -- or about one-third of the 600 acres needed for the project, which also includes an office center and hotel.
THE Meadowlands commission is reviewing the Mills project, but all approvals are subject to the developer receiving a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers to fill the wetlands, said Andrew R. Davis, director land-use management and legal affairs at the commission.
The two outlet projects in Secaucus do not require such a permit. But they do need a "special exception" from the commission, which Mr. Davis said would allow pure retail uses to go up on the sites, which are now zoned for light industry with a 10 percent retail component.
Many retail brokers said the Secaucus outlet district could support more stores. The key reasons are location and demographics, said Jonathan Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization, a commercial brokerage firm in Woodbridge. He noted that Secaucus was in a densely populated area and about five miles from the entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel, offering access to Manhattan.
"But the district lacks the sex appeal of modern centers," Mr. Schultz said, noting its helter-skelter layout. The clusters of stores are a distance from one another, forcing consumers to drive from site to site.
The new projects, if done well, "could boost the district by drawing in more shoppers," he said.
That is the hope of Oscar L. Ammugauan, a supervisor at Samonsite's outlet store. "More customers will come because they will be curious about the new center," he said. But whether that translates into more business for existing tenants "is iffy," he said, adding that "we'll have to wait and see."
Mayor Anthony E. Just Sr. of Secaucus is less optimistic. "One center could help the district, but two may be overkill," he said. "If there is room for more development it may be for something other than retail."
Hartz has owned the 35-acre development site since 1990. The company initially intended to construct a warehouse and distribution complex on the site, but switched to the current plan last year.
"We found that an outlet center would be the highest and best use and that the market was right for additional stores," said Constantino T. Milano, executive vice president of finance and leasing at Hartz.
"Building a new center," Mr. Milano said, would help put the district "back on the map" by making shopping more convenient and by becoming a destination for shoppers, including international tour groups. "The district was not capturing its fair share of tourists over the last three to four years," he added. (Data collected by Hartz show that sales totaling $160 million annually were flat in the last three years.)
Of the proposed Mikasa project, Mr. Milano said: "There are enough tenants to support both centers." Mikasa officials did not return repeated phone calls for comments on their proposed mall.
Explaining why Prime Retail got involved in the project, William H. Carpenter Jr., the company's president and chief operating officer, said: "We liked the idea that Secaucus has been a mecca for years for outlets, we wanted to be in New Jersey and we are always looking for growth opportunities."
Location was another reason. Some 12.5 million people with an average household income of $59,400 live within a 25-mile radius of the site.
The Secaucus project -- along with a 400,000-square-foot center planned in Pleasantville, just outside Atlantic City -- marks the company's first foray into New Jersey. Prime, which owns 50 outlet centers, was formed in 1988, went public in 1994 and merged last June with the Horizon Group, another outlet developer based in Muskegon, Mich.
At some outlet malls the strategy is to mix entertainment, such as movie theaters and theme restaurants, with retail in an attempt to attract families and keep them on the property as long as possible. In contrast, Mr. Carpenter said, Prime's approach is to stress brand names as well as selection and service. The goal at the Secaucus project "is to bring in brand-name tenants not represented in the district," he said. For example, Mr. Carpenter, said, Nike and Polo do not have outlets in the district.
At the most optimistic, Mr. Milano said, he hopes to secure the necessary approvals by the spring. Mr. Carpenter added that while his company had begun marketing, the center construction would not begin until 50 percent of space had been preleased, which he said he expected by the summer. The center is scheduled to open by the fall of 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of proposed 300,000-square-foot Prime Outlets at Secaucus, which would contain some 70 stores averaging 3,000 square feet each lining two or three landscaped streets in a village-like setting. There would be park-ing for 1,500 cars. (Richard Burns/DCI Architects)
 
Map of northern New Jersey, highlighting Seacaucus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES; PRIME RETAIL INC TKO/REAL ESTATE ADVISORY GROUP (61%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (53%); T J MAXX (50%); HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES; PRIME RETAIL INC HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; HARMON COVE (SECAUCUS, NJ); MEADOWLANDS (NJ); SECAUCUS (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); CHILDREN (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE HARMON COVE (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



278 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes / The Alameda, Broadway and 84th Street;
A Stretch of Neighborhood Stores Turns Upscale

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THERE are A-level retail tenants sprinkled up and down Broadway, but an unusual strategy by the owner of a 1915 apartment house at the northwest corner of 84th Street is creating a mini-stretch of Madison Avenue on what is otherwise just a neighborhood street.
After 1900, when developers first built tall buildings on upper Broadway, the wide, tree-shaded street was a residential address of some distinction. The buildings at first did not have stores on the ground floor -- retail tenants, no matter how swell, were considered improper in a respectable residential building. 
 But growing acceptance by apartment tenants -- and increasing revenues from store rents -- allowed the development of the familiar model of ground-floor stores with apartments above. By 1910 every new apartment building on Broadway had ground-floor stores, so when the developer Dr. Charles V. Paterno built the 12-story Alameda, at the northwest corner of 84th Street and Broadway, he gave it a side-street address, 255 West 84th Street, and put seven stores on the Broadway side of the building.
Paterno's regular architect, Gaetano Ajello, had a trademark of very high lobby ceilings, which allowed 16-foot-high ceilings for the stores and permitted an additional mezzanine.
A 1915 glass negative at the Museum of the City of New York shows the store area in excellent detail. Overhead transoms -- operable for ventilation -- were often painted on the inside with the store's name and logo. But the principal signs -- almost certainly specified in the store leases or approved by Paterno himself -- were the operable awnings, each with distinctive lettering, decorative borders and contrasting colors.
In the photograph, six of the seven stores were occupied. The largest, the corner store, was taken by the jeweler Henry Nockin, who had started in business in 1910. Next door was a phonograph store, and next to that a dress shop. Beyond these was the Alameda tailor shop, operated by Meyer Tannenbaum and Angelo Guglioto. Next was the Mme. Helene French Dying and Cleaning store, operated by Helen Twomey, 31, and Laura Twomey, 25 -- both were New York born and of Irish heritage. The last occupied store was the Alameda Hair Cutting Parlor.
Of this group, only Nockin and the Twomeys relocated from other stores -- the rest apparently were new businesses. Most of the principals lived on the West Side.
Retailing can be a bumpy life. Both Nockin and the Twomeys declared bankruptcy, in 1916 and 1919 respectively, although they kept operating. Nockin was still in business in October 1925, when a visiting jewelry wholesaler left his Ford sedan -- with special rear-seat strongbox -- in front while he went in to discuss business.
Six men, who had apparently followed the Ford, pulled up behind and seized the driver, Arthur Franklin, before he could pull his pistol from his pocket. Mr. Franklin later said they "looked like college boys" but threatened to "shoot him full of holes," and they escaped in their own car down West 84th Street with a haul of $50,000 to $100,000.The special siren and tear-gas system Nockin had installed inside the store was of no use.
By the 1930's all the stores had turned over but retained a common design, seen in a 1938 photograph. Dark mirror glass with silver or white lettering covered the transoms, and the awnings were plain, without lettering.
By the mid-1980's, when Seminole Realty bought the Alameda and converted it to a co-op, the stores looked a bit scruffy, but no better or worse than the rest of this part of Broadway. Sandy Sirulnick, the general partner at Seminole, said that in the conversion Seminole retained ownership of the retail spaces.
"The west side of Broadway is far more valuable," Mr. Sirulnick said. "It's the sunny side of the street. It's the Zabar's side of the street." He and his partners wanted to attract something other than the usual neighborhood retailers, and in the last six months a Godiva chocolate store, a Coach leather store -- in the corner space -- and an Origins cosmetics store have opened there.
Mr. Sirulnick's broker, Andrew Goldberg, a managing director at the Insignia/ESG brokerage company, said that high-end national retailers were familiar with the traditional suburban or mall locations and considered the jumbled Broadway strip almost a foreign country, even though they want to be on the Upper West Side.
"You'd find them space," Mr. Goldberg said, "but then they say, 'I'm stuck next to a local deli, and on the other side there's an old, beat up store -- I don't understand it.' They're used to co-tenancies that they can understand."
At the Alameda, Mr. Goldberg said, because several leases were expiring simultaneously, he saw the opportunity to create a new microclimate in which the new stores would have similarly upscale neighbors.
SOME store tenants in this section of Broadway are paying an annual rent of as little as $75 a square foot, Mr. Goldberg said, but for the right space, "it's north of $200 per square foot."
No one would give specific store rents, but at $200 a square foot a year a retail space the size of the 800-square-foot Origins store would have a rent of $160,000 a year, or a little over $13,000 a month.
Two older stores, a Haagen-Dazs franchise and Bati, a shoe store, remain sandwiched between the new elegance of their neighbors, but Mr. Sirulnick said that when their leases expired in the next few years Coach will expand into their space. Indeed, he said, Godiva and Origins signed on in large part because they knew Coach was moving in also.
A high school student, Ilana Friedman, has lived around the corner for 15 of her 17 years, and dislikes the changes. The new stores "take away from the character, the diversity," she said. "I think that there's a place for Madison Avenue, and its on Madison Avenue. There was a great home-style Middle Eastern restaurant there. It was a little bit seedy, but it was very cozy."
But Harut Saganda, the owner of the shoe store, Bati, is not too concerned about his new neighbors. He has four or five years to go on his lease, he said, and he is thinking of opening another store in SoHo. If he does have to leave the Alameda, he said, "maybe I'll move to the East Side, probably Third, or Lexington, or even Madison."
"But I'll tell you" he said. "If they're going to start charging $10,000 a month for this place, it's not worth it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of ground-floor retail strip in the Alameda in 1915. (Museum of the City of New York); Coach is among high-end stores now at the base of the Broadway building. (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COACH (LEATHER GOODS CO) ALAMEDA HAIR CUTTING PARLOR (80%); SEMINOLE REALTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COACH (LEATHER GOODS CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ALAMEDA (NYC APARTMENT BUILDING); HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SEDANS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); JEWELRY WHOLESALERS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER HENRY NOCKIN (78%); CHARLES V PATERNO (60%); ANDREW GOLDBERG (56%); SANDY SIRULNICK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



279 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In / Turn of River in Stamford, Conn.;
Diverse Neighborhood, With Golf Course

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
OF Stamford's 12 distinctive neighborhoods Turn of River is one of the smallest, most diverse and most convenient -- a location of choice for people who want the country, the supermarket, the golf course, and the Merritt Parkway within minutes of their front doors.
Rarely are there more than half a dozen dwellings out of a total of about 800 households for sale at any one time, said Elayne Jassey, a broker with the Stamford office of Prudential Connecticut. Some real estate brokers accept refundable binders on the chance that something will show up. 
 Rita and Michael Butterman, empty-nesters wanting to downsize from a big house in North Stamford, waited for over a year for a house to come up for sale in Stonebrook, a subdivision of 45 clustered homes near High Ridge Road, priced around $340,000. They will move in this month. "It has the woodsy look of North Stamford, but it's close to everything," said Mrs. Butterman. Maintenance-free with 1,500 to 1,800 square feet of space on small lots and managed by a residents' association, the homes "sell the day they are listed," said Ms. Jassey.
Residents of the area can purchase everything from a cup of coffee to furniture on High Ridge Road, a main artery that forms the western boundary of Turn of River. It leads into downtown Stamford and accesses Exit 35 of the Merritt Parkway.
Packed with stores, services, professional offices, many types of restaurants, banks and businesses, High Ridge Road is a daily blur of cars and trucks swinging in and out of fast-moving traffic, giving no hint of the quiet wooded streets hidden behind it.
Two months ago Mary Kannavos moved into her four-story town house at Riverturn, on Turn of River Road, a 70-unit condominium complex still under construction and sold out except for two units available at $325,000. "Being single," said Ms. Kannavos, "what I saw in Ridgefield and Fairfield was too suburban and too small -- I have seven rooms of furniture." Riverturn's units, listed by Hilda Tooher of Coldwell Banker's Stamford office, contain 2,636 square feet and are all alike.
"Turn of River has the greatest mix of prices and types of housing in the city," said Ms. Jassey of Prudential Connecticut. An occasional Victorian mansion on an acre may cost $600,000, while 1950's raised ranches and colonials are priced from $350,000 to $525,000; older homes on quarter-acre lots or less start around $200,000.
Victor Roman, head of Century 21 Roman Realty on High Ridge Road, caters to first-time buyers and minority-group members looking for a home in the low-$200,000s. His brokers speak Spanish, Haitian Creole, Italian and Portuguese, and he runs free monthly home-buyers' seminars in English and Spanish.
"When we began 10 years ago," Mr. Roman said, "minorities used to be sent to the South End. Other real estate agents didn't take them everywhere."
Newfield Avenue, which forms Turn of River's eastern border, is a testament to the area's variety. A broad, dignified thoroughfare of churches, synagogues and large homes, it also contains two gathering places that belie their names. For the Italian Center and the Jewish Community Center are neither Italian nor Jewish when it comes to memberships. Anyone can join for annual family fees of $1,500 and $850, respectively; there is also a series of discount memberships for couples, singles, and adults over 65.
BOTH centers have tennis courts, swimming pools, entertainment events, gyms, day care, nursery schools and after-school programs. Day-care fees vary according to hours and days. Two days a week from 9 A.M. to 3 P.M. for 3- and 4-year-olds at the Italian Center costs $1,888 a year. Five days from 7:30 A.M. to 6 P.M. for the same age group at the Jewish Community Center costs $9,000 a year.
While Stamford is not noted for architectural preservation it did buy a 140-acre farm on Newfield Avenue some 30 years ago and turned it into the Sterling Farms Golf Course, retaining the old farmhouse as the Fairway Restaurant. It has two dining rooms with fireplaces.
Residents' weekday golf passes cost $12, or $14 for a weekend day; guests pay $35 and $40, respectively. Buckets of 50 or 100 golf balls at $6 and $10 are sold at the 25-station driving range all year, including snow days. Membership to play on the six municipal tennis courts costs $50 a season.
The river in Turn of River is the Rippowam, "the name the Indians had for the area," said Ron Marcus, historian of the Stamford Historical Society, "but we don't know what it means." Narrow and winding, it turns from east to west near Exit 35 of the Merritt Parkway and continues south, emptying into Stamford Harbor.
Before the Merritt separated North Stamford from the rest of the city, Turn of River extended slightly north to Wire Mill Road, where the sculptor Gutzon Borglum had an estate. "He used to fish in the Rippowam," said Mr. Marcus. Borglum, the sculptor of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt at Mount Rushmore, also sculpted a considerably smaller woman's head for the marquee of the old Stamford Theater. "It was donated to the Mount Rushmore archives when the theater was torn down to make way for the Rich Forum and the Stamford Center for the Arts," said John Huddlestone, director of the center. A reproduction is displayed in the lobby.
Stamford's penchant for new idiosyncratic architecture is nowhere more apparent than in High Ridge Office Park, built at Turn of River in the 1960's by the F.D. Rich Company. The buildings are startling in their futuristic diversity. But, said Robin Stein, Stamford's land use planner, "it's what the corporations wanted then" -- buildings with no relationship to their surroundings.
The office park backs up to Sterling Lake, with views of Sterling Lake Homes on the opposite shore -- the most expensive group of houses in Turn of River. Built about 10 years ago by Peter Malkin, chairman of Wein & Malkin, the Manhattan real estate and development firm, the houses are large, handsome, different from one another and "insulated from traffic and commercial development," said Mr. Malkin. An association of residents owns the three-acre lake and maintains the road and landscaping.
Early in February of next year Rosemary and Russell Bonaguidi will move from suburban Chicago into a Sterling Lake home. "The house is just what we wanted," said Mrs. Bonaguidi, "but even though everyone warned me that in the area is very expensive, the prices put me in total sticker shock." Sterling Lake's eight homes cost from around $650,000 to $720,000.
THE Bonaguidis' two daughters are in college, but families with young children can be put off by one of Stamford's most daunting problems -- teaching its 54.1 percent of minority children, who speak 55 different languages or dialects. A New Arrivals Program at Rippowam Center, a former high school, coaches recent immigrants who range from kindergarten through high school in cultural issues as well as language, said Sarah Arnold, spokeswoman for the schools. Last year's redistricting is expected to create an ethnic and economic mix of students in all schools at all grade levels.
Persistent disparagement of the schools is resented bitterly by staff members. "This is a unique urban-suburban district," said Tony Pavia, assistant principal at Stamford High School. "Eighty-seven percent of our graduates go on to higher education. We have won regional math and science competitions and we have 12 well-attended advanced placement courses. Outlying realtors may very well contribute to a perception that Stamford schools are not among the finest, in terms of a city school system."
Combined S.A.T. averages for 1998 at Stamford and West Hill High Schools were 474 verbal and 478 math, compared with state averages of 507 and 504, respectively. The 26-acre campus of Turn of River Middle School has been somewhat disrupted by the construction of a new 23,000-square-foot $3.8 million Turn of River branch of the city library across the road. It will open in August, replacing an outgrown 11,000-square-foot branch on High Ridge Road.
Turn of River children from kindergarten through grade 5 attend Davenport Ridge Elementary School on a 15-acre campus, but in eight fewer classrooms than usual. A temporary problem with mold, caused by improper carpet cleaning, was discovered this fall and is expected to be corrected over the summer. Davenport and Turn of River Middle School are considered to be among the city's best.
For those who prefer private school, King & Low-Heywood Thomas School, founded in 1865, is on a 40-acre Newfield Avenue campus. It draws boys and girls from 12 surrounding towns and offers a traditional college preparatory curriculum from pre-kindergarten through 12th grade. Tuition rises by grade level from $8,500 to $15,800 a year.
"It's funny," said Mr. Marcus, "the histories of Stamford and many of its neighborhoods have been written, from the first purchase of land made 1640 in by Nathaniel Turner of the New Haven Colony, from Ponus and Toquam -- two Sagamore sachems. The sale included all of what is now Stamford, Darien, and parts of New Canaan, Pound Ridge and Bedford.
"But the history of Turn of River has yet to be written. There are tangential references to it in my bibliography but no one has studied the architecture, nor the cemetery on Turn of River Road, nor the volunteer fire department, nor how far back it goes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homes at Sterling Lake, above, the most expensive in Turn of River. Condominiums at Riverturn complex, left, sell for around $325,000. Fairway Restaurant, below, a converted farmhouse. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Market": 3-bedroom, 2-bath colonial on 2.3 acres at 87 Snow Crystal Lane, $289,000. 4-bedroom, 2-bath colonial on 4.6 acres at 6 Brandywine Road, $350,000. 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath contemporary on 1.4 acres at 358 Intervale Road, $459,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 2,243 (1997 census update).
 
AREA: 1.4 square miles.
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $84,000 (1997 census update).
 
MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $395,000.
 
TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $7,382.
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $365,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $330,000.
 
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $8,900.
 
DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 37 miles.
 
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 45 minutes on Metro-North New Haven Division, $10 one way, $218 monthly from Stamford.
 
GOVERNMENT: Stamford Mayor (Dannel Malloy, Democrat) 40-member Board of Representatives, all elected to 4-year terms.
 
CODES: Area, 203: ZIP, 06905.
 
STERLING FARMS: Little is known of the early history of Sterling Farms because of a fire in the attic of the main house in which many records were lost. Before Stamford bought it for $1.8 million in 1968, using a Federal grant for open space, and converted it into a golf course it was owned by S. H. Golding, who operated it as a gentleman's dairy farm. In the 30's and 40's his prize Sterling Gold Guernsey bulls sold at auction for as much as $50,000. The maternity barn, now a garage, housed apartments for the resident farmer and caretaker, and the pro shop was the poolhouse for a since vanished heated pool. The test barn for pasteurizing and bottling milk became the Ethel Kweskin Sterling Barn Theater, a popular community theater, and the milk bottles, which bore a picture of the farm, are now collectibles.
 
Map of Connecticut, highlighting Turn of River in Stamford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMPTY NESTERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DANNEL MALLOY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



280 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
The Importance Of Internship

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I am a business major with a concentration in information systems. I hear that the job market is very good, but I do not have internship experience. Should I graduate on schedule to enter that market, or wait a year to complete an internship?
 
A. The world, it seems, is your employment oyster. Regardless of whether you graduate next spring or stay in school another year, experts say, you're unlikely to wind up flipping hamburgers.
"Even without internship experience, someone just getting out of school with an information-technologies-related degree can literally find a job in almost any part of the country with a very good starting salary," said George S. Smith, vice president of media services for Alltel, a telecommunications and information technology company in Little Rock, Ark. "These people are a very hot commodity. Alltel basically has a standing offer: You come to us and we'll hire you."
The competition for qualified employees is intense, Mr. Smith said, noting that companies like his have had to resort to aggressive recruiting tactics and offer tempting starting salaries. "You cannot find enough people to fill the jobs," he said.
From the job seeker's point of view, however, it may be best to stay in school for an internship -- if you can afford the time and expense. That way, some career advisers say, you can maximize your marketability to get the hottest job at the highest possible salary.
"The dilemma new graduates most often face is that they've got fine academic training, but no hard experience," said Betsy Collard, director of programs at the Career Action Center in Cupertino, Calif., in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Internships can provide an important edge, she said. "You'll be able to demand more and get farther faster when you do graduate," she added. The training also helps build your comfort level with the working world, reducing the chances of falling on your face later.
Career centers at universities often help match students and employers, many of whom are eager for interns. "I've heard several companies say they cannot get all the interns they want in this area," said Dan Lohmeyer, executive director of the IT Alliance, an economic development group for the information technology industry near Dayton, Ohio.
But will the job market cool while you're slogging through that extra year? "These opportunities are not going to go away," Ms. Collard said. "The numbers in school with that area of concentration don't compare with the growing need."
Mr. Lohmeyer agreed. "Even when the Y2K problem gets solved, I don't see any diminution of demand on the horizon," he said, referring to the Year 2000 computer problem. "Everywhere you turn, people in business are folding information technologies into what they do.
"I don't think we're talking about a wave here," he said of these jobs. "We're talking about a flood."
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); OHIO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: WORKING MONEY&BUSINESS (72%); CAREER ACTION CENTER (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAREER ACTION CENTER (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); OHIO, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (56%); DAYTON, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (60%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



281 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3125 words

HEADLINE: Churches Ring With the Carols of Choirs

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
BRIGHTER economy and, perhaps, high spirits, too, may well be responsible for the flood of Christmas music ringing forth around the state.
Among this year's highlights are next Sunday afternoon's concert of works by Johann Sebastian Bach and two sons at St. Barnabas Church in Greenwich as well as Schola Cantorum's presentation today of Renaissance motets and Gregorian chant at Sacred Heart Church in New Haven. Schola Cantorum, composed of 20 professional musicians, will also offer a traditional Latin Mass with Gregorian chant on Christmas Day at Sacred Heart. Following is a sampling of what can be heard in churches over the next few weeks.
 

 
 DANBURY -- First Congregational Church, 164 Deer Hill Ave. Today, 10 A.M., hymns and carols, Charles Stanford's "Magnificat," Sarah Fay, soprano. Next Sun., 10 A.M., Kodaly's "O Come, O Come Emmanuel," French carols. Dec. 24, 7:30 P.M., Katherine Davis's "Little Drummer Boy," Charles Hennon, bass; "Awake! Awake! And Greet the New Morn," by Marty Haugen, with children's choir; "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" with handbell choir. At 11 P.M., Egil Hovland's "Glory of the Father," the plainsong "Of the Father's Love Begotten," Victoria's "Ave Maria," "Carol of the Bells," Holst's "Christmas Day" with Ms. Fay, Laura Evans, mezzo-soprano, David Metzger, baritone. Owen Borda, music director.
 
 DARIEN -- First Congregational Church, 14 Brookside Rd. Dec. 24, 8 P.M., Lessons and Carols; works by Willcocks, Sowerby, Joubert, Carter and Tye. At 10:45 P.M., candlelight service, with works by Bach, Pachelbel, Langlais, Berlioz, Willcocks. K. Bryan Kirk, music director.
 
 DARIEN -- St. Luke's Parish, 1864 Post Rd. Dec. 24, 8 and 10:30 P.M., works by Terry, Darke, Willan, Rutter and Willcocks, with choirs, strings, organ and the Columbus Brass Ensemble. Erich S. Balling, organist and music director.
 
 DARIEN -- St. John Church, 1986 Post Rd. Today, 2 P.M., carols and works by Vivaldi, Yon, Adam and Irving Berlin, with the Rev. Joseph Cervero, tenor. $12. Dec. 24, 9:30 P.M., Lessons and Carols; works by Vivaldi, Yon, Adam. Dec. 25, 8:30 and 11:30 A.M., carols with Wendy Kerner Lucas, harpist. Frederick Tripodi, organist and music director.
 
 DARIEN -- Noroton Presbyterian Church, 2011 Post Rd. Dec. 24, 3 and 5 P.M., Noroton Brass Quintet, organ and children's choirs, carols. At 9 and 11 P.M., "Christmas Canticles" by Benjamin Harlan, with choir, Noroton Festival Orchestra, Jane Missis, harpist; Jon Hunt, organist; Janet Tyner, soprano; Catherine Prach, mezzo-soprano; William George, tenor; Michael Booker, bass. Michael Strain, music director.
 
 ESSEX -- First Congregational Church, 33 Prospect St. Today, 10 A.M., Carter's "Come, O Come To Us, We Pray," Gibbons's "This Is the Record of John" with choir, organ and Barry Asch, tenor. Next Sun., 9 and 11 A.M., Winter-Pitts's "He Comes," Lowry-Green-Schraeder's "Mary Did You Know?" "And the Glory of the Lord" from Handel's Messiah. Dec. 24, 9 P.M., Michael Haydn's "Run Ye Shepherds to the Light" with string ensemble. Dec. 27, 10 A.M., Holst's "Let All Mortal Flesh Keep Silent," "Love Came Down at Christmas." Betty Ann Crowell, organist; Barry Asch, music director.
 
 FAIRFIELD -- First Church Congregational, 148 Beach Rd. Today, 10 A.M., Philip Dietterich's "Carol of the Advent," "Go Tell It On the Mountain," Minuet and Finale from Dandrieu's "Fifers." At 11:30 P.M., carols at Burr Mansion. Next Sun., 10 A.M., Hank Beebe's "Huddle Close!" Mendelssohn's "How Beautiful on the Mountains." E. Power Biggs's "Christmas Pastorale," Liszt's "Shepherds at the Manger." Dec. 24, 4 and 6 P.M., pageant based on Aoki-Gantschev book "Santa's Favorite Christmas Story," Lessons and Carols with choir, handbell choir, Nanette and Tina Raimondi, violinists; Mark Richards, trumpeter; Tom O'Neill, guitarist. Douglas Wagner's "Fanfare on Adeste Fideles" and works by Beverly Simpson, Daniel Kantor and Robert White. Heather A. Hamilton, organist and music director.
 
 FAIRFIELD -- Black Rock Congregational Church, 3685 Black Rock Tpke. Next Sun., 9:30 and 11 A.M., Neilson-Young's "Carol of the Bells," "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen" for two pianos; "Mary Did You Know?" with Joyce Hay, vocalist; "Star of Bethelehem" and more with children's choir. Dec. 24, 10:30 P.M., Petker's "Rejoice and Sing Noel," carols, Steven Field, pianist; Lani Borgman, flutist; Virginia Palm organist. At 11 P.M., carols, Young's "Sing We Now a Song of Christmas" and Michael Smith's "All Is Well" with vocal ensemble, Kathleen Harrington, Elizabeth Field, soloists. James P. Marshall, minister of music.
 
 FAIRFIELD -- St. Paul's Episcopal Church, 661 Old Post Rd. Dec. 24, 5:15 P.M., Welsh, German and English carols, plainsong, Near's "What Is This Lovely Fragrance?" and Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium" with Joy Plaisted, harpist. At 10:30 P.M., Michael Fink's "What Sweeter Music" " 'Tis Winter Now," Interlude from Benjamin Britten's "Ceremony of Carols," Stephen Paulus"s "Sing Hallelu!" Morten Lauridsen's "O Magnum Mysterium" with St. Cecilia Choir, organ, Annette Nauraine, soprano; Teresa Buchgolz, mezzo-soprano; Ryan MacPherson, tenor; James Creswell, baritone; Lynette Wardel, harpist; Amy Torok, flutist. Vincent H. Edwards, organist and music director.
 
 FARMINGTON -- First Church of Christ, 75 Main St. Today, 4 P.M., Charpentier's Messe de Minuit with Concora and orchestral ensemble, French carols sung with audience. $16, discounts. (860) 224-7500.
 
 GREENWICH -- St. Barnabas Episcopal Church, 954 Lake Ave. Next Sun., 4 P.M., J. S. Bach's "Magnificat in D," J. C. F. Bach's "Wachet Auf, Ruft Uns Die Stimme" J. M. Bach's "Furchtet Euch Nicht." Cynthia R. Wallace and Elena Williams, sopranos; Lori Blyth, alto; Timothy Evans, tenor; Alan Rasmussen, baritone. J. Michael Roush, conductor. $20. (203) 661-5526.
 
 GREENWICH -- Round Hill Community Church, 305 Round Hill Rd. Dec., 24, 4 P.M., John Goss's "See Amid the Wintry Snow," Natalie Sleeth's "Good News," carols, with children's choir, bell choir, organ and Wade Weast, trumpeter. At 9:30 P.M., French carols, Poulenc's Christmas Motets, with organ and trumpet. Christopher Kabala, organist and music director.
 
 GREENWICH -- Second Congregational Church, 139 E. Putnam Ave. Today, 10:30 A.M., Holst's "Christmas Day" with handbells and choir; plainsong and a work by Bach. Next Sun., 10:30 A.M. Christmas Pageant with youth choir. Dec. 24, 7 P.M., Saint-Saens's Christmas Oratorio with choir, orchestra, Emily Mitchell, harpist; Camille Gifford, Pamela Kuhn, Diane LaSala, Victoria Litherland, sopranos; Eunice Hill, mezzo-soprano; Dale Smith, tenor; Matthew Schukis, baritone; Richard Kuelling, bass. Richard Glafke, organist and music director.
 
 GREENWICH -- St. Mary Church, 178 Greenwich Ave. Today, 3 P.M., Handel's Messiah, with choir, orchestra and soloists: Marjorie McGovern, Luciana LaMonico, Catherine Strain, Domonic Sack, Matthew Surapine, Russell Ashley, Anmarie Byrnes. Carols and works by Willcocks, Mozart, Holst, Gounod, Webber and Rutter. $15. (203) 869-9393. Dec. 24, 9:15 P.M., Willcocks's "O Come All Ye Faithful" excerpt from Handel's Messiah; works by Holst, Adam, Rutter, Ferguson, Nygard, Schultz, with choir, organ, harp, brass and strings. Thomas J. Marino, music director.
 
 GUILFORD -- First Congregational Church on the Green, 110 Broad St. Today, 5 P.M., Lessons and Carols; works by Andrew Clarke, Franz Biebl, Bob Chilcott, Frank Martin and James Gower with organ, brass and percussion. James Gower, organist and music director.
 
 HIGGANUM -- St. Peter Church, Maple Avenue. Dec. 24, 9:30 P.M., Joubert's "There Is No Rose of Such Virtue," Handel's "Every Valley," Schubert's "Ave Maria," carols and Gregorian chant. At 8:30 and 11 P.M., Richard Donohue's "Virgin Mother Soft and Fair," Mathias's "Babe Is Born," Gloria from Mozart's Missa Brevis, Lassus's "Magnificat." Richard Donohue, music director.
 
 MIDDLETOWN -- South Congregational Church on the South Green. Next Sun., 3 P.M., Buxtehude's "Dulci Jubilo," Cristobal de Morales's "Puer Natus Est," Mendelssohn's "Star Shall Rise Out of Jacob," Bernstein's "Gloria Tibi"; Christmas lullabies by George Chadwick and Peter Niemann, "Silent Night" with the Greater Middletown Chorale, Scott Lamlein, organist. Joseph D'Eugenio, director. $12, (860) 347-9954.
 
 MILFORD -- First United Church of Christ, Congregational, 34 W. Main St. Next Sun., 4:30 P.M., Lessons and Carols, works by H. Walford Davies, David Willcocks, John Rutter, John Joubert with choirs, handbells; R. Walden Moore, organist. John Abdenour, music director.
 
 NEW BRITAIN -- South Church, 90 Main St. Next Sun., 4 P.M., Lessons and Carols, works by Thoburn, Manz, Parker, Shaw, Friedell, Billings with choirs and instrumentalists. Reception. Richard Coffey, organist and music director.
 
 NEW CANAAN -- St. Mark's Episcopal Church, 111 Oenoke Ridge Rd. Dec. 24, 7:30 P.M., English and American carols, with Wendy Kerner-Lucas, harpist. At 11 P.M., choral works and carols by Willan, Willcocks, John Jacob Niles and Holst, with choir, organ and harp. Dec. 27, 9:45 A.M., Lessons and Carols with choir, organ and brass. Brian Paul Thomas, music director.
 
 NEW CANAAN -- St. Aloysius Church, 31 Cherry St. Dec. 24, 11:30 P.M., carols, Mozart's Missa Brevis in C with chorus, strings, oboe, organ and soloists: Ellen Sisson, soprano; Elaine Giggi, mezzo-soprano; Jason Rochelle, tenor; Galen Bower, baritone. David M. Thomas, organist and music director.
 
 NEW HAVEN -- St. Thomas Episcopal Church, 830 Whitney Ave. Nowell Sing We Clear, male vocal-instrumental quartet, British and American carols and songs. $15. (203) 776-3650.
 
 NEW HAVEN -- Sacred Heart Church, Columbus Ave. and Liberty Street, Schola Cantorum of the St. Gregory Society: today, 2 P.M., Palestrina's Missa Sicut Lilium, Renaissance motets and Gregorian chant. Dec. 25, 8 A.M., Gregorian chant for the third Mass of Christmas, Puer Natus Est Nobis.
 
 NEW HAVEN -- Church of the Redeemer, 185 Cold Spring St. Today, 10 A.M., Lessons and Carols with St. Margaret's-McTernan Bell Choir. Dec. 24, 5:30 P.M., Benjamin Britten's "Ceremony of Carols," Sharon Rondea, harpist. Marguerite Brooks, music director.
 
 NEW HAVEN -- Bethesda Lutheran Church, 305 St. Ronan St. Today, 4 P.M., "Amahl and The Night Visitors," W. C. S. U. Opera Ensemble, Margaret Astrup and Boyd Schlaefer, directors.
 
 NEW HAVEN -- United Church on the Green. Next Sun., 10:30 A.M., Celtic and French carols, Darke's "In the Bleak Midwinter" with choir, Dennis Tutley and Jack Sellati, vocalists. Dec. 24, 5:30 P.M., Colonial Brass Quintet with timpani, Eugene Isabelle, oboist. Pinkham's "Christmas Cantata," and works by Healey Willan, Howells, John Gardner, John Rutter and Ann M. Diers, with choir, organ, George Buchanan, vocalist. Dr. Mark Brombaugh, music director.
 
 NEWINGTON -- Church of Christ Congregational, 1075 Main St. Today, 7 P.M., excerpt from Handel's Messiah, Concert Choir, Ars Musicus Chamber Orchestra. Elizabeth A. Hagenah, organist and music director.
 
 NORWALK -- First Congregational Church on the Green. Dec. 20, 10:30 A.M. and Dec. 24, 11 P.M. Robert Powell's "While Shepherds Watch Their Flocks," Frederick Candlyn's "Son of Mary," Dale Grotenhuis's "On Christmas Night," Gerald Near's "He Whom Joyous Shepherds Praised." Joseph MacFarland, organist and music director.
 
 RIDGEFIELD -- St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, 351 Main St. Today, 4 P.M., "O Come, O Come Emmanuel" plainsong, "There Is No Rose," Andre Thomas's "African Noel," Brent Pierce's "How Still He Rests," Morten Lauridsen's "O Magnum Mysterium," Rene Clausen's "Make a Joyful Noise" with the Chamber Singers, women's chorus, flute, oboe and marimba. Kristin Sponheim, music director.
 
 SOUTHPORT -- Trinity Episcopal Church, 651 Pequot Ave. Next Sun., 4:30 P.M., children's pageant with live animals, carols, Nicholas Lebegue's "Noels Varies" for organ. Dec. 24, 4:45 P.M., carol sing, followed by Eric Gritton's "Welcome, Yule!" "What Is This Lovely Fragrance?" "Sing Lullaby!" "I Saw Three Ships," for choir and organ. At 10:30 P.M., excerpts from the Christmas portion of Handel's "Messiah," with Gwendolyn Hillman, soprano; Lucyane Bouchardet, mezzo-soprano, Paul Berryman, tenor; Thomas Dickinson, bass. Works by Haydn, Howells and Gounod. Dec. 27, 10 A.M., Lessons and Carols, Warlock's "Adam Lay Ybounden" and carols. Charles Dodsley Walker, organist and choirmaster.
 
 STAMFORD -- First Presbyterian Church, 1101 Bedford St. Today, 5 P.M., Pro Arte Singers Candlelight Concert: Charpentier's "Magnificat," Buxtehude's "Magnificat" and Christmas Day Cantata "Newborn Little Christ Child," Poulenc's Christmas Motets, Gauntlett's "Once in Royal David's City," and carols, with strings, baroque flute and organ. Arthur Sjogren, director. $25, (203) 322-5970. Next Sun., 7 P.M., works by Frescobaldi, Bach, Cable, Wolff, Gillis and Frackenpohl, with the New York Brass, John Sheppard, trumpeter, Jim Wetherald, organist, music director. Christmas carols with brass and organ.
 
 STAMFORD -- St. John's Lutheran Church, 884 Newfield Ave. Today, 10:30 A.M., Lessons and Carols, Healey Willan's "Lo, in the Time Appointed," Stephen Rapp's "Rise Up, Shepherd." Arrangements of "Away in a Manger" and "Of the Father's Love Begotten," with Thomas Jordan, tenor. Organ works by Bach. Dec. 24, 10:30 P.M., "Sussex Carol" "O Holy Night" for strings and organ, Pachelbel's "Canon for Three Violins and Continuo" with Susannah Bryan, Jason Thomson, Katie Segerdi, violinists; Rodger Bryan, bass; Bach's Trio Sonata in C Major" with Elizabeth and Rebekah Harkins, flutists. "I Wonder as I Wander," "Go Tell It On The Mountain" and "Greensleeves," with Nanette Jordan, flutist; Thomas Jordan, guitarist; works by William C. Cooper and Bach for organ, excerpts from Handel's Messiah with Richard Johnson, baritone, and Rutter's "What Sweeter Music." Stephen Rapp, organist and music director.
 
 STAMFORD -- St. John's Episcopal Church, 628 Main St. Today, 10 A.M. Vivaldi's "Gloria," with choir and orchestra. Next Sun., 10 A.M., Lessons and Carols with choir and soloists. Dec. 24, 5 and 10:30 P.M., carols with choir and soloists. Curtis Pierce, music director.
 
 SUFFIELD -- First Church of Christ Congregational, 81 High St. Today, 4 P.M., Brahms's "Wiegenlied," Donahue's "Carol of the Creche." German, Italian, Polish and French carols, with the New England Chamber Choir, Richard Donohue, director.
 
 WALLINGFORD -- Church of the Most Holy Trinity, 68 N. Colony St. Next Sun., 4 P.M., excerpts from Handel's Messiah, Brahms's "White Dove," Joubert's "Torches," Rutter's "Jesus Child," Darke's "In the Bleak Midwinter," MacKinnon's "Sleeps Judea Fair," Alice Parker's "Friendly Beasts," Natalie Sleeth's "Sing Noel" and "Lullaby" with choirs, handbells. Dec. 24, 11:30 P.M., overture and excerpts from Handel's Messiah, Byles's "Storke," "Ding! Dong! Merrily on High," Mozart's Sonata in D, and works by Rutter, Darke and Parker. Richard Fowler, music director.
 
 WATERTOWN -- First Congregational Church, 40 DeForest St. Dec. 24, 5 P.M., Algozin's "How Will We Know Him?" Natalie Sleeth's "Were You There on That Christmas Night?" Holst's "In The Bleak Midwinter," McGrath's "Noel" and Bach's "In Dulci Jubilo" with choir, organ, handbells, and Alyce C. Bertz, violinist; Heidi Wood, soprano. At 11 P.M., Harrington's "There's a Song in the Air," Anna L. Page's "Good Christian Men, Rejoice," McChesney's "Angel Glory," Praetorius's "Lo How a Rose E'er Blooming," "Gloria in Excelsis," and traditional songs, with organ, and the Rev. Dr. William J. Zito, pianist. Mary G. McCleary, organist and music director.
 
 WEST HARTFORD -- St. Mark the Evangelist Church, 467 South Quaker Lane. Dec. 24, 11:30 P.M., Almon C. Bock 2d's "Jesus, Son of God," Bach's "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring," Rutter's Nativity Carol, Darke's Sonata in F, Mozart's "Once as I Lay Sleeping," Thomas Stockton's "Today Is Born Our Saviour" and selections by Proulx and Haugen. Dec. 25, 9 and 11 A.M., "Gesu Bambino" by Yon, and seasonal music for organ, instruments and congregation, with Diane Link, soprano; Fred Stockton, baritone. Thomas Stockton, music director.
 
 WESTPORT -- Unitarian Church, 10 Lyons Plains Rd. Today, 11 A.M., Poulenc's "Gloria," Lori Trustman, soprano. Dec. 24, 9 P.M., Candlelight service, music by Rutter, Bach and Darke, with choir, brass, organ and handbells. Edward Thompson, music director.
 
 WESTPORT -- St. Luke's Roman Catholic Church, 84 Long Lots Rd. Next Sun., 3 P.M., Vivaldi's "Gloria," "He Shall Feed his Flock" from Handel's Messiah, Holst's "Christmas Day" with choir, d'Aquin's "Swiss Noel" with organ. Alfred Burt's "Caroling, Caroling," "Ah, Bleak and Chill the Wintry Night" with children's choir, "Angels' Carol" for women's choir, "Come, All Ye Faithful, Sing," "Hark the Herald Angels Sing," "Joy to the World," "Silent Night." "Hallelujah" chorus from Handel's Messiah, Regney and Shayne's "Do You Hear What I Hear?" with choir, Linda Collins and Stella Hartel, sopranos; Howard Barnaby, bass; Jack Adams and Brian Chamberlain, trumpeters; Paul Hanna, timpanist. Dec. 24 at 11 P.M. and Dec. 25 at 10:30 A.M., selections from earlier concert (on Sunday). John Hanulik and Peggy Slez, choir directors; Leon Bernard, organist and music director.
 
 WETHERSFIELD -- First Church of Christ, 250 Main St. Today, 7 P.M., Bach's "Magnificat," Ralph Vaughan Williams's "Fantasia on Christmas Carols," excerpts from Handel's Messiah with choirs and orchestra. Dec. 24, 9:30 and 11 P.M., Adam's "O Holy Night," Praetorius's "Unto Us a Child is Born," Leontovich's "Carol of the Bells," Eric Gritton's "Welcome Yule," Holst's "On This Day the Earth Shall Ring." David Spicer, music director.
 
 WILTON -- St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, 36 New Canaan Rd. Dec. 24, 4 P.M., music for trumpet and organ, followed by "Sussex Carol," "The Holly and The Ivy," "Children's Song of the Nativity," with children's choirs. At 10:30 P.M., music for harp, followed by plainsong "Of The Father's Love Begotten," "The Blessed Son of God" from Ralph Vaughan Williams' "Hodie," Holst's "Four Old English Carols," Kevin Oldham's "Silent Night," John Joubert's "Torches," "There Is No Rose" (circa 1420), John Goss's "See Amid the Winter's Snow," Victoria's "O Magnum Mysterium," traditional carols with choir, Linda Gortz, flutist; Joy Plaisted, harpist; Susan Marnell, soprano; Janet Nobles, alto; David Vogel, tenor, Alfred Jennings, Jr., baritone. Rodney V. Ayers, organist and music director.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Joanna Roy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS (93%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); RELIGION (91%); MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



282 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Westchester;
Rent Squabble Shuts a White Plains 'Incubator'

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER'S first high-technology incubator, designed to nurture small companies in a supportive environment with reasonable rents and flexible lease terms, closed last month as a result of a pending court case against the center's operator for nonpayment of rent.
On Nov. 30, company presidents streamed across the parking lot of the Eastview Technology Center in White Plains along with their employees, carrying office supplies in cardboard boxes. 
 "It was like the last day of college," said Stephen Britton, president of Cyberworx Communications, a Web site design firm. "Everyone was waving goodbye and loading their cars."
Even though Mr. Britton had already moved to new offices in September, he came by on the last day to say goodbye to those who had remained. "I still work with a lot of these companies," he said. "I wanted to be there at the end."
The Eastview Technology Center opened at the vacant Eastview School building in 1994. At its peak, it housed 45 companies, mostly small start-ups, mixed in with more established firms that were attracted to the low rents and collegial environment.
Rents at an annual rate of $10, and later $13, a square foot included high-speed Internet access, which is available in most at Class A office buildings, where rents in the White Plains area average in the low $20's. In addition, lease terms were extremely flexible, in some cases month to month.
Almost as soon as it opened, though, the center ran into difficulties. Its managing director, Nancy Bordier, attributed the problems to a "culture clash" between the center and the school district.
"They didn't seem to understand what we needed to keep the businesses operating," Ms. Bordier said. "Centers of this kind," she said, referring to those housed in public buildings, "tend to have a short life."
In the case now pending before the New York State Supreme Court in White Plains, the city's school board is suing for $450,000 in back rent Eastview Technology Center's management company -- the Westchester Information Revolution, a nonprofit partnership of Athena Telematics Foundation and the Westchester County Association.
A countersuit for $659,000 contends that the White Plains City School District reneged on its agreement to provide adequate space, since it took back a portion of the building two years ago to accommodate a growing school enrollment and, the suit charges, failed to make needed repairs.
Whatever the outcome, the businesses that had formed alliances and developed cooperative ways of working at the Eastview center were suddenly left floundering and looking for another location. Fifteen wound up at Ardsley Park Science and Technology Center, on Saw Mill River Road. Once the headquarters of Ciba Geigy, the eight-building campus has been transformed into a multitenant corporate park.
Its largest tenants are Purdue Pharma, a pharmaceutical firm, and Cultor Food Science, which together occupy more than 200,000 square feet out of a total of 555,000 square feet, according to John M. Weir, a managing director of Halpern Real Estate Development of Purchase, the managing partner in Ardsley Partners. The park was developed by Halpern and the Robert Martin Company of Elmsford.
One of the park's buildings, the 52,000-square-foot 410 Saw Mill River Road, has been rewired and equipped for high-speed Internet access and is now exclusively serving small high-technology firms.
"With this building, we saw an opportunity to marshal the technological resources in Westchester and provide smaller tenants access to amenities, such as a fully wired auditorium and a full-service cafeteria," said Jonathan Rudes, senior managing director with Newmark & Company, leasing agent for Ardsley Park. He added that the building was now almost fully leased, with only around 1,700 square feet of space still available.
Maurice Brentzfield's company, EComWorks, which develops affiliated networks or advertising links on Web sites, moved from Eastview to Ardsley Park on Nov. 30. "I've upped my square footage and gone from a classroom that cost around $600 a month to 2,200 square feet at just under $20 a square foot," he said.
At Ardsley Park, Mr. Brentzfield said, he is surrounded by other businesses that understand his company's needs and occasionally offer support.
Among his neighbors are WorldSpy, a comparison-shopping Web-site designer, and Linx Connexions, which translates technical and business documents, some on the Internet, into foreign languages.
"It was extremely important to me that I be with other companies, where we can utilize each other's services," Mr. Brentzfield said. "In this business, you can't do it alone."
Similarly, Ed Szamborski moved his company, Payroll Plus Services, out of Eastview and into Ardsley Park, because "I didn't want to be in a building with a bunch of dentists," he said. "I would have preferred to remain in White Plains, but we couldn't find the right space."
Mr. Szamborski, along with officials of about nine other companies, looked at warehouses and office buildings. "We were perfectly prepared to create our own entity, pay for the wiring and Internet access, but the landlords seemed unwilling to work with us," he said. "They didn't know what we were talking about."
Ms. Bordier, the White Plains incubator's managing director, maintains that much of the Westchester real estate world is "technologically backward."
"You run into a lot of technophobes who are down on their luck, are always complaining, yet don't see the advantages to be gained in working with high-tech companies," she said.
WITH a 30 percent office vacancy rate in downtown White Plains, Ms. Bordier added, "you'd think they wouldn't be in a position to turn away companies who were willing to locate there."
Some of Eastview's businesses, "the less mature, one-man bands," didn't survive the center's closing, according to Marge Lovero, president of the Entrepreneurial Center, a Purchase-based education center. She said she had kept in touch with several of the people involved and that they had told her that "couldn't afford Ardsley and some had to close up shop."
"At Ardsley, you've got to commit to a long-term lease, and these companies weren't in a position to do that, which is why an incubator is still necessary in Westchester," Ms. Lovero said. "But after what happened at Eastview, I don't know if we'll ever see one again"
The problem is economic viability, according to Mr. Rudes of Newmark & Company. "What we have started at Ardsley Park isn't an incubator," he said. "It's more like a one-industry building, where we've tried to create a supportive environment.
"My definition of an incubator is that it's usually supported by some institution, like a university. It has a manager, there's a graduation and it loses money. That's not what we're doing here."
Mr. Rudes does see more opportunity in creating office buildings geared specifically for small high-tech firms. "We're talking with the county now to see if we can find another property suitable for a high-tech building," he said. "We know that the market is there. We've just got to find the right space to make it happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aaron Allen and Michele Ladines, above, in new quarters of World-Spy. John M. Weir of Halpern Real Estate at Ardsley Park. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (50%); NOVN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (50%); EASTVIEW TECHNOLOGY CENTER (92%); WHITE PLAINS CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTVIEW TECHNOLOGY CENTER (92%); WHITE PLAINS CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



283 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2579 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Alley's Byways and Boulevards

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
TUCKED away in old manufacturing buildings in the Flatiron District, in SoHo or on the West Side near Hudson Square -- and with an important concentration downtown -- new-media companies are becoming an important factor in commercial real estate in the New York area.
"There is a reason why the vacancy rate in Midtown South -- from 34th Street to Canal Street -- is 4.6 percent," said Rob Martin, a managing director at Insignia/ESG, the real-estate services and brokerage concern. "There are more of these companies and they are growing." 
 Michael Ippolito, a managing director at Newmark & Company Real Estate, added: "Over the last three years, new media has emerged as a major force in the city."
Real estate executives say that the concentration of advertising and publishing companies in New York has attracted technically-oriented companies who want to tap into the city's talent pool. "New York has become the content capital of the Internet industry," said Mark Mandell, an associate director of Cushman & Wakefield and a specialist in new-media companies.
The term new media generally applies to activities now done on computer screens that were once done on paper or film, and is usually stretched to include electronic commerce and services consumed by new-media companies. Information technology is also a term used to describe these companies.
According to a study published in October 1997 by the Coopers & Lybrand consulting and accounting firm, employment in new-media companies increased from a total of 71,500 at the end of 1995 to 105,000 by the middle of last year and was projected to hit about 140,000 by the end of this year.
There are no generally agreed-upon estimates of the amount of space being used by new-media companies, partly because many of them also fall under such categories as advertising agencies. But if each of the workers counted in the Coopers & Lybrand survey occupied 100 square feet of office space -- well below the 150 to 250 square feet typical in office buildings -- the total amount would be well into millions of square feet.
Many of these new companies -- three years old is considered mature in this industry -- are opting for locations north of the Wall Street area, where the city-sponsored Plug 'n' Go program has attracted high-tech companies to subsidized prewired space in the financial district.
"My impression is that Silicon Alley started in the Flatiron area and Wall Street was added later," said Joshua Glantz, the director of business development at Rare Medium, an interactive advertising agency that has 15,000 square feet at 44 West 18th Street. Silicon Alley is the shorthand term used to describe the new-media and related companies, echoing the Silicon Valley label for the concentration of computer-related companies near San Francisco. The Coopers & Lybrand report included a map showing everything south of 41st Street as Silicon Alley.
Mr. Glantz said that a lot of startup companies and those that are in their second or third phase of growth were taking space in the Flatiron area. "There must be a half a dozen companies like ours between 18th and 20th Streets and Fifth and Sixth Avenues," he said. "You can't go to lunch and talk about business, because you are probably going to have a competitor at the next table."
This is not to say that the Plug 'n' Go program, sponsored by the Alliance for Downtown New York and the city's Economic Development Corporation, has been unsuccessful. According to alliance officials, 171 leases have been signed in downtown buildings since the program was initiated in February 1997 after the successful marketing of the building at 55 Broad Street as a high-technology center by the Rudin Management Company.
Plug 'n' Go offers incentives for landlords to install high-capacity telecommunications in their buildings and offers tenants below-market rents -- currently as low as $19 a square foot for the first year. Carl Weisbrod, the president of the alliance, said that a report in Crain's business weekly in April 1997, had said that 40 percent of the information-technology companies signing leases over the previous two years had moved in below Chambers Street.
BUT brokers say many companies are wary of downtown's still-sparse nightlife in terms of hiring technical staff. "The quality of after-work life is not great compared to SoHo and Flatiron," said Mr. Mandell of Cushman & Wakefield. "When they grow out of those incubators they tend to look to Midtown South, so there are no negatives in attracting highest quality people."
Cushman & Wakefield sees the new-media business as so attractive that it is one of the sponsors of the New York New Media Association, a trade association for the people in new media companies. Alice O'Rourke, the executive director of the group, said 1,400 new members joined the group this year, pushing membership to close to 3,200, or a 60 percent increase in one year.
Most of the new-media companies have similar histories. A small group of people think they have an idea that could be commercially viable. On the West Coast, these startups have traditionally been located in garages. In New York they begin in people's apartments.
If the idea is a good one, the task is to search for an "angel," an individual or company willing to make an investment so the new enterprise can grow fast enough to keep up with the rapidly changing world of new media and electronic commerce. At this point, the fledgling enterprise usually moves from apartments to commercial space in low-rent districts.
For Rare Medium it was 2,500 square feet on 17th Street from 1995 until it moved into its present location early this year.
When growth pushes the number of employees from a few dozen to hundreds, and more substantial financial backing has been found, the firm leaves its incubator for larger space where it has more control of the communications, electric power and other infrastructure issues.
Trev Huxley and a partner started Muze in Mr. Huxley's 600-square-foot apartment in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn in 1990. Now he has 121 employees and 28,000 square feet of space on the top floor of the building at 304 Hudson Street, between Spring and Vandam Streets.
Muze supplies information on music, videos and books to retailers selling those products, both in traditional stores and on-line at Web sites. As befits a company whose roots are in music, one of its early angels was Bob Weir of the band Grateful Dead.
The company is now largely owned by John E. Kluge of Metromedia Company, although Mr. Weir maintains his investment.
Although he said he personally likes Williamsburg and still lives there, Mr. Huxley said that by the mid-1990's it became obvious that the company needed a location in Manhattan.
"It was difficult for the staff to get to Williamsburg and we needed a place where we could meet with clients," Mr. Huxley said. His decision to move to Manhattan came at a time when Trinity Church, which owns much of the property in the Hudson Square area, was in the midst of replacing the printing companies that had operated there for decades with higher tech tenants.
"This is the kind of tenant we were looking for," Stephen Heyman, the director of commercial real estate for Trinity Real Estate, said of Muze. "This is New York's fastest growing sector in terms of office. We did not so much target them as they started knocking on our door."
Because of 304 Hudson's industrial history there is plenty of electrical power for the big servers and the hundreds of personal computers these technology-based companies require, Mr. Heyman said.
And because the site is close to the Holland Tunnel, where the main fiber-optic telecommunications lines enter the city, it is relatively easy to provide the robust communications services on-line companies need. "Any building of reasonable size can get this stuff, but you have to be in the city," he said. "If you are out in New Jersey it won't be as easy."
According to Mr. Huxley, a grandson of the author Aldous Huxley, moving Muze into the Hudson Street building raised other issues.
Most of the company's employees enter data and add comment to the databases on music, books and videos. This information is used to update touch-screen terminals in retail stores and for the Web sites.
For example, in a bookstore a person could request a list of titles by author, geographic area, or a period in time. The screen will list the titles available. By touching or clicking through to subsequent screens, a shopper can find descriptions of the work and reviews of it.
The company supplies monthly CD's to stores with freestanding terminals, but updates its electronic database more quickly as information becomes available.
"We are a little like a news organization, and we sometimes work 24 hours a day, seven days a week," Mr. Huxley said, noting that Muze rushed out additional information on Frank Sinatra after the singer's death earlier this year. "But the building turns the heat off at 5 P.M., so we had to add heat."
Conversely, in the summer months, heat is a big problem, since the company has large server computers operating around the clock and has approximately three personal computers for every employee. All that equipment generates heat. "So we had to add extra cooling," Mr. Huxley said, "and since we can't afford to go down, we need redundant power and telecommunications."
Like most new-media companies, Muze has avoided the standard office layout of executive offices on the outer perimeter of each floor in favor of an open layout that allows natural light from the windows to penetrate to the interior. Nor has it bothered with a dropped ceiling to conceal the utilities. Instead, most of the wiring is in a tray about 10 feet off the floor where it will not be in people's way but will be readily accessible when changes are needed.
At eight years old, Muze is an established company that is contemplating a public stock offering and can afford to be a bit choosy about where its space is located and how it is finished.
Newer firms being financed by their founders have fewer options. The Thinking Media Corporation occupies about 3,000 square feet in an old garment-industry building at 34 West 17th Street. The space is raw and open, with wiring exposed on the walls and not an air-conditioner in sight.
"This was an old shoe factory -- we are the first office tenant," said Owen Davis, the chief executive of the company, which produces interactive advertisements and customer tracking software. On the company's Web page (www.thethinkingmedia.com) is an advertisement for Proctor & Gamble's Bounty paper towels that invites viewers to drag a graphic representation of a towel to clean up a spill and then asks users for information in exchange for a free sample.
Mr. Davis said he located the three-year old company on 17th Street two years ago "because the rents were incredibly cheap." But they have risen as the area has attracted more tenants and he said he may be forced to move to a less expensive location in the future.
BROKERS said space in side-street buildings in Flatiron and Chelsea could be rented annually for $10 to $14 a square foot two to three years ago and can still be found in the mid-teens today. But they say that space near the Flatiron Building at Broadway and 23d Street and along Park Avenue South has risen to the high teens and mid-$20's.
Mr. Mandell said space in the Hudson Square area is renting in the low $20's for lesser quality buildings to close to $30 a square foot for well-situated, well-equipped space.
Some landlords apparently have a strategy of renting unimproved space to fledgling high-technology concerns at low rates secure in the knowledge that the companies will pay for improvements they need to operate.
"This was a sweatshop," said Glenn S. Meyers, the president of Rare Medium, referring to the company's space on West 18th Street. "There was lead cable in the risers and no electricity," he said, adding that there were problems of electrical interference from industrial companies still operating in the building.
"We had to put in fiber risers for telecommunications, more electricity and surge protection," Mr. Meyers said. "We fixed the building for the landlord and changed $5 space to $25 space."
Nevertheless, he said, the company may be forced by its rapid growth to consider moving. "We are pretty much maxed out of space here," he said. "That's how it goes in this business, you grow, max and move." Brokers said successful companies who are moving to larger quarters typically sublet their old space to startup companies who benefit from the improvements already made.
There appears to be another side to this landlord-tenant duet. Real estate executives say landlords are often willing to spend money building space for new-media companies with questionable prospects and no credit, because they can usually rent it to another high-tech company without doing much more than painting the walls.
"Our track record with Internet companies is better than average, but if they get in trouble they usually merge and somebody else steps in," said James Doran, director of property management for Trinity Real Estate. "If you do have one go under, what you are left with is a prebuilt unit for the next guy. This is usually not the case with standard office tenants."
W E wire our spaces to the hilt, so that when we grow and move on, it is suitable for a startup," said Ronald J. Ruegg, controller of Interworld Corporation, which went from an apartment to three small spaces of under 5,000 square feet each in Chelsea to 50,000 square feet at 395 Hudson Street, between King and Charlton Streets.
Visitors to Interworld are greeted by a glassed-in computer room as they step off the elevators, with the blinking lights of the powerful machines indicating the work going on within. The room is meant to convey the look of matured high technology, said John Henderson, a designer with Studios Architecture, which designed the interior.
Strictly speaking Interworld is not a new-media company, its executives insist, but they admit that because they are involved in electronic commerce they get counted as a Silicon Alley company.
"Our expertise is in transaction processing," said Charles R. Rich, a senior strategic analyst for the company. He said the company produced systems that allowed companies selling on the Internet to fulfill orders and process payments.
"We are here because the relevant expertise is on Wall Street," he said. "When you need to process a large volume of highly valuable transactions and do it without making mistakes, you are describing what Wall Street has been doing for years."
But the Interworld executives say their admiration for Wall Street talent does not extend to wanting to physically be downtown.
The prewired spaces in the Plug 'n' Go program were unattractive, Mr. Ruegg said, because they were not specialized for Interworld's needs. "We wanted to build our own space and do it our way," he said.
And, although it presents a corporate front for customers and investors, the company is still a high-tech operation with a pool table, a pinball machine and a weight room to allow employees to work off strain and tension.
"We have a cultural advantage here," Mr. Rich said. "Downtown is very impersonal. This location protects our identity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Trev Huxley in offices of Muze on top floor of 304 Hudson Street. Mr. Huxley started company in a 600-square-foot apartment. Now he has 121 employees and 28,000 square feet. Owen Davis, head of the Thinking Media Corporation, which occupies 3,000 square feet in old garment-industry building at 34 West 17th Street. (Top: Ruby Washington/The New York Times; middle and bottom left: Dith Pran/The New York Times; bottom right: G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg.1); Charles R. Rich, left, senior strategic analyst for Interworld Corporation, and Ronald J. Ruegg, controller of the transaction-processing company. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOHO AREA (SOUTH HOUSTON INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT) (NYC); FLATIRON DISTRICT (NYC); WEST SIDE (NYC); HUDSON SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SMALL BUSINESS; SILICON ALLEY (NYC); COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS REAL ESTATE (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); TRENDS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (52%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



284 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Crafting Financing to Assist Housing Construction

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
SCATTERED throughout the city are properties that share a singular deprivation -- capital for the construction of new housing, either on vacant land or within an existing dilapidated shell.
One is a former coffin factory in the South Bronx that has long stood vacant. Another is a vacant site in Far Rockaway, Queens, bordering on the 1,600-apartment Wavecrest rental development. A third consists of a set of six vacant walk-ups under single ownership in West Harlem. 
 These and other properties in the city and beyond have been the beneficiaries of a New York State housing initiative this year, launched without fanfare by the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal through its Housing Trust Fund, a public benefit corporation. It is called the tax-exempt bond credit initiative, and so far it has set in motion 11 projects across the state, five of them in New York City.
The program is a good example of the financial contortions government now engages in to generate housing. An "affordable housing industry" has grown up to utilize these programs, and the latest one is of particular value to the smaller builders who have become a part of that industry.
The program allies tax-exempt bond financing, which is used for many types of state construction, with the tax-credit program, which raises equity capital for lower-income housing. It will assist housing designed exclusively for tenants classified as low-income under the Federal definition.
In the past, tax-credit financing sometimes has been used to support the 20 percent low-income component of mixed-income "80-20" projects, which are also built with tax-exempt bonds. In these projects 80 percent of the apartments are market-rate. Most are in Manhattan, where the market-rate tenants often have high incomes.
The tax-credit allocations granted in the new program so far are expected to raise $42.6 million in equity capital for the 11 projects. The investors who buy these credits -- usually large corporations currently paying about 70 cents for each dollar they expect to save in taxes -- will be entitled to forgo Federal taxes at a rate of about 4 percent of the total project cost per year over 10 years. Normally the credit is used only with taxable financing, and the credit is 9 percent of project cost over 10 years.
The bond financing committed by the state so far totals $70.4 million, and the Housing Trust Fund itself is contributing very-low-interest loans totaling $30.2 million (averaging $25,000 per housing unit).
All this is in support of 11 projects with 1,205 apartments and a total development cost of $137 million. Many of these buildings have yet to go into construction, but they will start emerging on the rental market within a year or two. Tenants will have to meet the Federal definition for low income households -- those earning no more than 60 percent of an area's median income.
In New York City people earning up to about $30,000 a year will be eligible to rent. In Westchester County the maximum income will be about $44,500, and in Suffolk County it will be $40,000. These figures, especially in the suburban counties, are high enough to lead state officials to shrink from describing their initiative as a "low-income housing program."
TENANTS will be working people, all paying about 30 percent of their income as rent. In New York City, rents will be about $520 a month for a one-bedroom apartment and $625 for a two-bedroom.
Esoteric as the financing mechanism sounds, it has provided the means by which small builders can start developing sites that some have owned for years.
The New York City Housing Development Corporation, a public-benefit corporation that also finances housing, has had a program similar to the new state initiative. So far it is doing 23 buildings with 1,154 apartments using the 4 percent tax credit in tandem with tax-exempt bonds. Various means have been found to enhance the funding through other city programs.
But for the most part small builders have found it difficult to get access to tax-credit financing, leading to distress among those who have used city programs over the last 10 years. Last year these developers and other housing professionals formed the New York State Association for Affordable Housing, to lobby for just the sort of program that the state has now adopted.
"We began to realize that the role of the small for-profit developer was getting squeezed out in policy-making," said Ronald Moelis, a principal in L & M Equity Participants Ltd., of Larchmont, N.Y., and the builder-owner of 1,500 apartments in about 50 buildings rehabilitated through city programs. "Most of the tax-credit money was going either to the very-low-end of the income scale, or to the special needs population or to nonprofit developers. Very little was going to people of low-middle income."
Mr. Moelis, who is president of the new association, is involved in three of the 11 projects financed in the state program. One of them is the prospective rehabilitation of the former Hygrade coffin factory at 454-464 East 148th Street and Brook Avenue in the Bronx into 79 apartments, to be known as Brook Avenue Gardens. The property is a short walk from the busy commercial hub at Third Avenue and East 149th Street.
With L & M Equity acting as contractor, the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, or Sobro, is launching itself into the housing-development field in this venture. Sobro has controlled the city-owned site for two years, but no funds were available except for AIDS housing, for which the buildings were considered too large. "We wanted to have family housing and the state program is the perfect fit for it," said Phillip Morrow, president of Sobro, which will eventually become the owner-operator. David Hirsch of Urban Architectural Initiatives is the architect. Construction is expected to start next August, after the land-use review process that is required prior to the sale of a city-owned building.
The total project cost is $9.4 million, raised as follows: $2.76 million from the Housing Trust Fund ($35,000 a unit); $2.83 million from tax-exempt bonds, in this case through the New York City Housing Development Corporation rather than the state Housing Finance Agency; $2.98 million in equity financing from the low-income housing credits, and $800,000 of financing from the developer.
THE two other L & M projects are the gut rehabilitation of two vacant buildings at 1046-1050 Hoe Avenue in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx to create 42 apartments, and the construction of three new three-story buildings with 150 apartments in Wappinger Falls, N.Y.
Another user of the state program is Goldfarb Properties, of New Rochelle, N.Y., the owner of Wavecrest in Far Rockaway. It has long hoped to develop a vacant parcel of 110,000 square feet that is west of Wavecrest, off Beach 24th Street near the boardwalk. Goldfarb Properties now plans to build 122 apartments in a six-story building designed by the Stephen B. Jacobs Group of Manhattan. Richard M. Libbey, an associate with M.A. Salazar Realty of Atlantic Beach, which will handle the marketing, managed the preconstruction development work. A construction start is a year away.
In central Harlem, the Arker Companies, of Woodmere, L.I., will use the state financing in the rehabilitation of six vacant buildings on West 133d Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. There will be 85 apartments. Again, the construction start is a year off.
The fifth New York City project now financed is new construction of two buildings called Tony Mendez Apartments, with 130 units on a mostly vacant site between East 116th Street and 117th Street, between Madison and Park Avenues, in East Harlem, starting next year. The city owns the land, and Community Board 11 has been seeking to develop it. MacQueston Development Corporation, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., is the developer-builder. An East Harlem community group, East Harlem Building for the Community, will be responsible for marketing.
Judith A. Calogero, deputy commissioner of the state housing agency who is also president of the Housing Trust Fund Corporation, said she was pleased that the state had been able to show that it was possible to raise $42 million in equity capital for housing construction by using the new financing mechanism. She noted that by offering only a 4 percent credit for each project rather than a 9 percent credit the state has stretched the use of the annual $22 million tax-credit allocation from Washington.
"We have a tremendous demand from builders for tax-credit allocations, and we keep asking Washington for more," Ms. Calogero said. "We're glad we can show we've found a way to generate more credit from the resources we already have."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of 116th Street side of the 130-unit Tony Mendez Apartments, between Madison and Park Avenues. Construction is to begin next year. (DePasquale & Geremia Architects and Planners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAX CREDITS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); BURIAL CASKET MFG (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



285 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2438 words

HEADLINE: Bloomfield Avenue's Twists and Turns

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD

 BODY:
IN the late 90's the 1790's -- Israel Crane owned a general store in what is now Montclair, and the road from Newark ran right past his door. The location was nice enough, but the road, an old Indian trail, was so lumpy and wound so circuitously around the Watchung Mountains that the trip from Newark to West Caldwell took a full day.
So Mr. Crane, after whose family Cranetown (later Montclair) was named, collected a handful of investors and formed the Newark and Pompton Turnpike Company. In 1809 an 11.2-mile toll road was completed that ran from Newark west to Morris County, with a spur running north to Pompton, at a cost of $4,000 a mile. He even built an exit that funneled traffic to his door, helping his business become "very large and widely extended," according to Richard Whittemore's "History of Montclair Township." 
 Today that road, which has been known as Bloomfield Avenue since at least the mid-1880's, is still a magnet for commerce, though its poles seem to shift constantly. Bloomfield Avenue is not just any main drag; it is, in many ways, New Jersey's archetypal main drag, passing through the heart of seven Essex County communities -- Newark, Bloomfield, Glen Ridge, Montclair, Verona, Caldwell and West Caldwell -- that range from struggling city to arty and aspiring enclave, from preserved-in-amber small town to sprawling suburb awash in Lexuses and BMW's.
Every social trend and transportation development to come down the old turnpike has left its mark on the landscape. The trolleys that ran from Newark to Caldwell brought dense downtown development exactly that far west. The availability of the automobile accelerated white flight from Newark and Bloomfield and gave birth to the shopping mall. The recent waves of immigrants from Latin America and the Caribbean have filled many of the shops that had fallen empty. And all along the avenue are efforts -- of varying success -- to revive downtown districts and compete with the ubiquitous malls.
"Bloomfield Avenue carries the history of this country on its back in a very real way," said Donald Smartt, a consultant based in Verona who has helped 30 communities throughout the state revitalize their downtowns, including Montclair, Bloomfield and Verona itself.
That's more, the avenue -- the state's first county road -- has a bit more history and grandeur than most thoroughfares. For instance, it produced the state's only native-born president -- Grover Cleveland, the "Great Commoner" -- who brought the Statue of Liberty to these shores. (A dried slice of his wedding cake is among the exhibits enshrined in the brown two-story house, temporarily closed to the public, on the eastern outskirts of Caldwell.) The borough of Caldwell, interestingly enough, seceded from the surrounding township in a dispute over the maintenance of Bloomfield Avenue.
And the avenue is home to the flag factory in Verona that provided a well-timed visual backdrop in George Bush's 1988 presidential campaign. It has a big old concrete football stadium, an imposing art museum, an Italian restaurant called Casa Nostra, and one of the state's first strip malls, if not the first.
The forces that once shaped -- and are continuing to shape -- the view along Bloomfield Avenue are the same ones at work on many roads around the state that run like spokes from city hubs: Kennedy Boulevard in Hudson County, St. George Road in Elizabeth and environs, Route 24 from Springfield to Morristown. All of which makes Bloomfield Avenue as good a place as any to observe people, places and rituals in the late 90's -- the 1990's, that is.
Dan Tozzi has reached a truce with the graffiti artists who favored his flower shop at Bloomfield and Mount Prospect avenues in Newark's North Ward.
"We'd paint it, they'd come and graffiti it the next day," said Mr. Tozzi, a big, soft-spoken man of 70 who resembles a chain-smoking Humpty Dumpty with a droopy mustache, standing in the doorway of the store his family has operated since the 1940's. "We'd paint it again, they'd graffiti again. We never had a moment's peace."
Finally the kids made him an offer he felt he couldn't refuse. "They said, 'Why don't you let us paint it? We'll do a nice job.' "
Nice is relative. Just below the faded but formal "Tozzi-Florist-Funerals-Weddings", they spray-painted "Tozzi's Florist" in hiphop lettering above some rudimentary green tulips. Next to that is a portrait of a young king who looks a little like Calvin from Calvin and Hobbes with an angry scowl, a Napoleon jacket and dreadlocks pushing out from his crown, dubbed "King of Roses '96."
It does not seem like it would be the most effective signage for selling cut flowers, let alone funeral wreaths, but Mr. Tozzi is not complaining. "Since it's been done, nobody touches it," he said. "That was three years ago."
Such are the ways that Mr. Tozzi has adapted to the changes in the neighborhood he grew up in, once mostly Italian but now largely black and Hispanic. When Mr. Tozzi shuts his eyes, he sees the neighborhood as it was 60 years ago -- the butcher, the baker, the ballroom, the Italian restaurant just up the hill at Clifton Avenue with a bowling alley in the basement, the pharmacy where his grandmother sent him to buy little bottles of anisette and rum flavoring for her home-brewed moonshine.
"One block up, one block down, everything you needed," Mr. Tozzi said. "Two blocks for the movies, three blocks for the ice cream."
All those places seem to have been replaced by bodegas, travel-agents-cum-international-call shops and storefront offices for dentists, doctors and lawyers. Or have they?
The neighborhood butcher has set up shop in the Esperanza supermarket two blocks down the hill, run by two brothers from the Dominican Republic.
"People go to C-Town to buy groceries," said Orlando Melo, 26, who helps his brother Luis run the store, "but for meat they come over here."
The Esperanza (the name means hope) brothers used to have a store near Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn but they got sick of robberies and moved to Bloomfield Avenue almost four years ago.
"My brother called it that because he started from zero and he hoped that this was good," Orlando said.
The old restaurant with the bowling alley is now an Ecuadorian place called Latino's. The bowling alley is long gone, but on a recent Sunday afternoon, nearly every table in the agreeably dark, noisy place was full of families lingering and laughing over steak or ceviche or a deliciously stewy fish soup called caldo de vagre. One by one, the families were replaced by single men who stared sullenly over the top of their bowls as they slurped their soup or nursed beers and side plates of toasted corn kernels, construction workers who left wives in Ecuador and rely on Latino's $25-a-week meal plan for a taste of home.
Farther up the hill, past Branch Brook Park toward Bloomfield, the old Italian neighborhood is more intact. Cafes dot the street. Inside Calandra's Bakery, a wholesale and retail fixture for almost 40 years, a dozen giggling teen-age counter girls serve hot bread every hour until 9 P.M. and bakers tend the huge ovens round the clock. "When you get out of work, you want hot bread in your house," said Engin Aktas, the assistant general manager.
Even the new is sometimes old. Last year, Jerry Pastore, a former city council candidate and longtime gadfly, opened the First Ward Deli and Cafe, where he whips up a mean $3 white-bean-and-escarole stew and talks wise with the customers.
"You got cold cuts?" a boy of about 13 asked just before closing time.
"Why didn't you ask me before I cleaned the machine, you worm?" Mr. Pastore asked. "Whaddya want?"
"You got turkey?"
"I got turkey for you, you turkey."
Seconds later, Mr. Pastore handed the boy a sandwich.
"How much?" the youth asked.
"How much?" Mr. Pastore said. "Take a walk. I'll see your father. Tell him I'm gonna rob his money."
The boy left, confused but beaming.
"If I didn't like this kid's mom and dad, he'd be out in the cold," Mr. Pastore said.
Mr. Pastore, 62, used to run the county golf courses. He had a wicker shop, and ran for council a couple of times in the 70's.A faded poster from his campaign can still be seen hanging outside a grocery store near Branch Brook Park.
"Now I make my eggs and mind my own business," he said. "I'm here 14 hours a day and I love it. All the people I knew all my life come in every day."
You can tell a lot about a downtown by its movie theaters.
On a windy Sunday afternoon, a boy of about 10, left his bicycle by the door of the Center Theater in downtown Bloomfield and approached Kishor Dadlaney, the vice president of the company that runs the movie house.
"What's playing now?" the boy asked.
"It's an Indian movie called 'Soldier,' " Mr. Dadlaney said, smiling apologetically as he added, "without subtitles."
"Oh," the boy said, and climbed back on his bike and rode off.
The theater shows only Indian movies, attractinga largely out-of-town crowd from Indian communities in Jersey City, Edison and Passaic. Open only on weekends, it is a viable business because of its parent company next door, one of the country's biggest distributors of Indian films. The marquee on Bloomfield's other theater, the Royal, simply reads, "Welcome to Bloomfield Center. Season's Greetings."
Bloomfield, once a proud retail center rich with clothing and department stores, is trying to remake itself to win back a big chunk of the business it has lost to the malls. Under the direction of Mr. Smartt, the town and the Bloomfield Center Alliance, a new merchants' organization, have been pooling resources to create more parking (the town bought the Royal a few months ago and is looking to turn it into a parking lot), putting up banners and lighting and getting the local papers and TV stations to provide discounted advertising rates.
The effort has borne some fruit. Mr. Smartt said that Two Broad Street, an eight-story Art Deco building at Broad and Bloomfield that is largely vacant, has proposals to rent out 85 percent of it. New Jersey Transit's Montclair Connection, which will afford a straight shot into Manhattan from Bloomfield and several other stations, is expected to bring another influx of shoppers -- and new residents -- when it opens in 2002.
But Rocco Sinopoli, a former president of the town's Chamber of Commerce who is an owner of Lou-Rocco Shoes, said he was concerned about continued attrition among the 15 or so clothing and shoe stores along Bloomfield Avenue.
"If you get a business that's been around for so many years and he decides to leave a town like this, what do you think will move in?" he asked. "You're going to get a restaurant or a nail salon."
Ah, nail salons.
From one end of Bloomfield Avenue to the other, there are 83 places to get one's nails done or get one's hair cut, colored, rinsed, washed and styled -- or about one every 240 yards. From one end to the other, shopkeepers, longtime residents and other people who don't get their nails done characterize the salons as kudzu, an opportunistic weed that ends up choking out more "legitimate" forms of life.
But a peek into Rainbow Nail, next door to Mr. Sinopoli's shoe store, revealed that for many women, a visit to the nail salon was the perfect centerpiece of an excursion to The Avenue.
"Everything's conveniently located here," Marisol Carloni, a 30-year-old bookkeeper from Belleville, said over the combined racket of nail dryers, chatter and bored children. "You can get your hair and your nails done, while you're waiting you can go to the bank, to Annie Sez, Mandy's Music Shop, the liquor store. I don't like going to the malls. I like everything convenient."
Notwithstanding the economic benefits of nail salons, many shopkeepers along Bloomfield Avenue said they were convinced that only businesses such as salons and delis that offer convenience services or those that have carved out a specialized niche could thrive there.
That, perhaps, explains how Bloomfield Avenue has flourished in Montclair, which sometimes seems like one big niche (aside from the two dozen hair and nail places that line its 1.7 miles).
Seven years ago, Del DeMaio opened an African art and musical instrument store called Timeless Treasures. Somehow it has transformed itself into an almost encyclopedic bead shop. Hundreds of trays and boxes overflow with beads of porcelain, bone, glass, crystal; fired blue-glass African chevron beads with glazed ends that look like the heads on a drum; metal Ethiopian talismans that look like purses; tiny carved monkeys and Buddhas; simple yellow kernels of copal resin.
"I shop all over, mail order, and she has things here I've never seen anywhere else," said Laura Porter, a sculptor, editorial consultant and part-time jewelry maker who, like many of Ms. DeMaio's customers, is so devoted that she works behind the counter to soak in the vibes and feed her bead habit.
"I had to have my customers come in and help out because I knew nothing about beads," Ms. DeMaio said. "This store just goes where it goes. It's never been planned."
Up the street, Lanre Animashaun's Oyo Gallery, is still selling African artifacts, and doing fine.
"A lot of people said to me, 'Oh, you've got to be on Church Street,' " Mr. Animashaun said, referring to the strip just off the Avenue that is lined with fancy antique stores. "But I like it here because over the years a lot of people driving down Bloomfield Avenue on their way to somewhere else see me and stop."
Back down the hill toward Glen Ridge, things are considerably less chic, but there are opportunities. Last month, Michael Bailey, a local firefighter, opened a shop called Set It Off wedged between a deli and a counseling center and across from a service station, offering the latest in hip-hop fashions, from Phat Farm to Wu Wear to Avirex.
"There's nothing like this in Montclair," Mr. Bailey said "We are exclusive. Montclair is loaded with kids and there's a junior high school around the corner. If the child asks for it sooner or later the parents are going to get it."
Half a block up, Sara Colvin, 7, swept the cups and wrappers and leaves from the sidewalk in front of her apartment building with a worn broom, providing a reminder that Bloomfield Avenue, in addition to everything else, is home for thousands of people. Sweeping, which she does every day in return for a few dollars from the landlord, makes her giddy. "I sweep and sweep and sweep and sweep and go to sleep and sleep and sleep and go to school," she said proudly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1809, the Newark and Pompton Turnpike Company completed an 11.2-mile toll road from Newark to Morris County. At dusk in Verona, cars weave along the road, now called Bloomfield Avenue. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); (The New York Times)(pg. 1); Tozzi's Florist in Newark, above, has changed with the times; graffiti by neighborhood youths adorns the wall of his store. At left, Lanre Animashaun sells African art in Montclair. And downtown Bloomfield, once a thriving retail center, is trying to rebuild. (Photograph by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Map of New Jersey shows location of Bloomfield Avenue (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ESSEX COUNTY (NJ); BLOOMFIELD AVENUE (ESSEX COUNTY, NJ); MONTCLAIR (NJ); CALDWELL (NJ); NEWARK (NJ); WEST CALDWELL (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HISTORY URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); TRENDS (88%); CITY LIFE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (73%); CITIES (64%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY DAN TOZZI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



286 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Seeing Opportunity As Others Are Fleeing

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
IN a year filled with defaults, devaluations and downturns bordering on depressions, emerging markets may win the prize as the Discredited Asset Class of 1998.
Through Dec. 10, the average emerging-markets fund has declined more than 27 percent, according to Lipper Inc. And money is flowing out of such funds: $810 million this year through Oct. 31, Lipper says. 
 Tough times. But opportunity often arises out of adversity.
One person with that opinion is J. Mark Mobius, the globe-trotting manager of eight Franklin/Templeton emerging-markets funds. Mr. Mobius took some time during a stop last week in Santiago, Chile, to talk about investing's new outcasts.
 
Q. It's been more than a year since the onset of the Asian crisis began to shake emerging markets, and lots of investors have left. Who are the buyers?
 
A. At this stage, some people who have been badly burned are saying they will never again be in emerging markets, and have bailed out. But there are three types of investors who are competing for assets.
First there are portfolio investors like us, who are in for the long haul and whose clients have not abandoned them.
But there are also strategic investors, like the G.E.'s or Coca-Cola's, who are picking up listed companies for a song.
And there are private equity investors who are also picking up bargains in listed and unlisted companies.
So there is competition for assets in these countries. While it may not be so evident in price movements, as more money comes in, I think prices will rise rather dramatically.
 
Q. Can you give us some examples?
 
A. In Argentina, a company called Bunge & Born owns a controlling interest in a packaged- and canned-goods company called Molinos. We happen to be an 11 percent holder of Molinos, which Bunge & Born wants to sell. Whoever buys control could easily say they are delisting this company.
Another example is a South African company called Angen, formerly owned by Mobil. Mobil sold out at very low prices because of apartheid. About a year ago, Petronas, the Malaysian oil company, bought about 30 percent of the shares and made an offer to buy all the shares at double the market price. Everyone but us jumped at it.
 
Q. How long will it take to rebound?
 
A. I don't think it will take more than a year. The obvious place it will happen first is Asia. A lot of people are searching for assets there, because they are cheap.
 
Q. But can Asia start to grow without a healthy Japan?
 
A. As long as the United States economy continues to expand, Asia can grow without Japan. If the American economy goes in the tank, recovery in Asia will be slower. But Japan is not vital to the growth of Asia.
 
Q. You sound more optimistic now about these markets than you did when we last talked, in September 1997. Is that so?
 
A. I am more optimistic now, because back then there was so much uncertainty. Now we are in a situation where you could get some explosive upside movement.
 
Q. Where are you invested?
 
A. Well, for the first time in years we are almost 100 percent invested. About 35 percent of the money is in Latin America, a little less in Asia. The rest is in South Africa, Eastern Europe, places like that. Our biggest countries are Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, each with between 8 percent and 10 percent of assets.
 
Q. A year ago you voiced concern that the Malaysian Government's decision to impose controls on capital flows would spread through Asia. Is that still a worry?
 
A. We were quite depressed when they announced capital controls, and we were afraid that policy would spread to other countries. But I am happy to report the Malaysians are having second thoughts about that policy. They are beginning to ask for meetings to talk about changes, because I think they realize they are being cut off from tremendous flows of capital. But even if they do alter that position, the issue of crony capitalism is still there.
 
Q. Has the past year prompted other changes that are important to investors?
 
A. A couple come immediately to mind.
Many markets that have been illiquid and had restrictive regulations on stock ownership, as in Chile, have listed the assets in New York and London. That has created more liquidity.
Minority shareholder rights is another important area. One of the reasons a lot of people were disillusioned about these markets is that shareholders really had no rights. But a number of countries, including Chile, are now talking about equal economic rights of shareholders. That is not a revolutionary idea to us, but it is to them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Mark Mobius

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BG (NYSE) (66%); KO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (66%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHILE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

CITY: SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (84%); BUNGE LTD (66%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHILE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; MOBIUS, J MARK

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



287 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Filling Up a Cart at the Internet Mall

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
WHEN Rhonda Tallant of Euless, Tex., decided recently to buy some fishing equipment for her husband, Curtis, and a vacuum cleaner for their home, she headed toward her computer.
"I've never been one to go to the malls and spend six hours looking for two or three gifts when I can spend an hour at home in my chair and get everything I need," she said. 
 She is far from alone. Analysts say that as many as 20 million people have made at least one purchase on line. On the Thanksgiving weekend, daily visits to Web sites that sell toys, for example, jumped 56 percent, to 832,000, from the average before the holiday, according to Media Metrix, a company that measures Internet traffic.
Forrester Research, a consulting firm, estimates that Americans will buy almost $8 billion worth of merchandise on the Internet this year, up from $3 billion last year, and that holiday sales will account for $3.5 billion of the total.
While these figures represent less than 1 percent of all retail sales, said Kate Delhagen, an analyst at Forrester, she expects Internet sales to reach $108 billion, or 6 percent of total sales, by 2003. That would be twice the 3 percent share now made through direct mail and telemarketing.
"This is going mainstream," she said. "We are in a momentum-building stage right now."
Consumers are already facing an ever-widening array of Web shopping choices -- and not just for books, CD's and toys. There are also sites for buying cooking supplies (cooking.com), furs (furs.com) and pets and pet supplies (acmepet.com). And traditional retailers, like Macy's and Nordstrom, and catalogue merchants like L. L. Bean and Land's End, now have Web sites, too.
If all the on-line choices are bewildering, shopping guides, including Shopguide.com, Bottomdollar.com and Mysimon.com, can track down things like an 8-foot Fraser fir Christmas tree ($100 from Garden.com). And if you are looking to sell items as well as find possible bargains, there are on-line auctions (Firstauction.com, Ebay.com).
Lou Richman, finance editor of Consumer Reports, has called the Internet "the world's largest mall." In that mall, however, Forrester Research expects consumers to confine about half of their purchases to two areas: travel services (about $3 billion) and computer equipment ($1.2 billion).
Among Internet shoppers who were asked what they were likely to buy on line this season, 47 percent said computer software, 44 percent mentioned CD's and 43 percent said books, according to Greenfield Online, an Internet marketing research firm.
BOOK shopping made a convert of Tina Robichaux, a programmer who lives in Duluth, Ga. Recalling her first attempt at shopping on line about five years ago, when modems were much slower, she said, "It was such a pain in the neck."
But having looked everywhere in stores for a book she wanted, she gave Internet shopping a second chance and found the book at Amazon.com.
Now Mrs. Robichaux often shops on the Internet, buying airline tickets as well as books, making reservations at bed-and-breakfasts ("I love it because you can tell what a place looks like") and ordering fabric from a small company in Alaska. This holiday season, she plans to buy at least half her presents on line. With new technology, she said, it is easier than ordering by phone.
With on-line competition growing, many retailers are attracting shoppers by offering incentive programs or affiliating themselves with popular Web sites:
* At Women.com, a site directed at women, about 30 companies, including, Amazon.com; Hallmark; Sears, Roebuck, and Office Max, sell products in an on-line store.
* Netcentives.com offers frequent-flier miles on various airlines for buying products from any of its three dozen partners, including 1-800-Flowers, Broderbund Software, Barnesandnoble.com and J. Crew.
* Consumers who visit Shop2give.com and buy from an affiliated retailer, like Brookstone, Omaha Steaks or Outpost.com, have a portion of their spending donated to the charities of their choice.
To gauge on-line buying, Consumer Reports asked 30 consumers with varying degrees of Internet shopping experience to each buy a CD, a polo shirt, a computer game and a gift basket on line.
"There were few bargains," Mr. Richman said, adding that prices were similar to those in stores.
So far, on-line shopping has not made a significant economic impact on traditional retailers, but analysts say it eventually will. At some companies, Internet profits may be gained at the expense of other businesses.
"The primary point of cannibalism is catalogue sales," said Nicole Vanderbilt, an analyst at Jupiter Communications. "People who are willing to shop by catalogue are also willing to shop on line."
But on-line shopping will probably never fully replace brick-and-mortar stores. "For me, you have to try on clothes," Mrs. Robichaux said. "You don't know the quality of certain things until you see them."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: "Shopping, With the Click of a Mouse"
Like millions of other people, Rhonda and Curtis Tallant have become on-line shoppers. They like to buy from auction sites because they believe they can get better bargains than elsewhere. Here are some things they bought and where they got them.
 
Eureka Bravo 2 vacuum, $47
Ubid Auction
 
Holmes air purifier, $42
First Auction
 
Sony telephone, $148
First Auction
 
Dirt Devil scrubber, $26
First Auction
 
Computer vacuum, $7
Surplus Auction
 
Logomotion computer software, $12
Surplus Auction
 
Hitachi drill, $35
First Auction
 
RCA cordless headphones, $35
First Auction
 
Magnavox portable stereo, $42
Surplus Auction
 
Simply 3D computer software, $12
Surplus Auction
 
Leather computer case, $32
First Auction
 
(Photograph by Mark Graham for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE INTERNET RETAILING (93%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (65%); TELEMARKETING (65%); 

PERSON: MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB TINA ROBICHAUX (55%); LOU RICHMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



288 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST HARLEM;
Backyard Business Is Hers

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Bonita G. LloydNettles knows a good thing when she sees it, even if it isn't there yet. And 10 years ago, when a friend showed her and her husband an apartment on East 111th Street, surrounded by abandoned buildings and empty storefronts, she envisioned a bustling, diverse community with businesses in full swing.
She took the apartment, and the change that she imagined has already begun, driven by a migration of new residents to the neighborhood. Where there were once vacant stores, now there are new green awnings inviting customers into the Make My Cake bakery, Elizabeth Hair Styling and Salon, and Bianca's on the Park banquet hall. 
 Now Ms. LloydNettles hopes to keep the momentum going by creating a business-service organization, the Harlem Renaissance Local Development Corporation. The group, conceived three years ago, has developed a feasibility plan and gathered public support, and is now getting down to its bread-and-butter work: assessing and addressing the needs of the 80 businesses from 110th to 113th Street and from Fifth Avenue to Frederick Douglass Boulevard.
"There is organized activity in other parts of Harlem to improve the business community, but there is none in our area," Ms. LloydNettles said. "I see it as an economic development engine. We help improve the overall performance of existing businesses, and attract businesses that need to come in."
Ms. LloydNettles, 44, is president of Lloyd's of New York Ltd., a management consulting firm that, among other things, works with the Central Harlem Local Development Corporation. She is also a fashion designer, creating "Art Ensembles for Noble Women of Culture," made with traditional African fabrics.
Last Christmas, her local development corporation coordinated a cooperative advertising campaign for more than 20 businesses in lower Harlem, using the theme "Shop in Harlem and Experience the World." This year, she's putting together another cooperative ad along the same lines.
"The message is: don't ignore what's in your backyard," she said. "People should shop in this neighborhood because it's convenient and because the business community is improving customer service and its image."
JoAnn Baylor is the owner of Make My Cake, which opened two years ago on East 110th Street and is about to expand to a second bakery on 139th Street. A member of the board of Ms. LloydNettles' corporation, Ms. Baylor is also an optimist about improving the neighborhood's future.
"I expect positive results from her efforts," Ms. Baylor said. NINA SIEGAL

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonita G. LloydNettles, on Frederick Douglass Boulevard near 112th Street, is trying to address the practical needs of 80 businesses. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM RENAISSANCE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP HARLEM RENAISSANCE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM RENAISSANCE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); BAKERIES (75%); RETAILERS (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); FABRICS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); CHRISTMAS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: LLOYDNETTLES, BONITA G; SIEGAL, NINA BONITA G LLOYDNETTLES (95%); JOANN BAYLOR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



289 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2950 words

HEADLINE: JAMMING;
The Traffic Downtown Seems Worse Than Ever. Is the Verrazano the Villain?

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
IT'S another weekday afternoon rush hour in lower Manhattan, and Canal Street is gridlocked. Eastbound lanes are clogged with cars, trucks and buses headed for the Manhattan Bridge. Westbound lanes are choked with vehicles aiming for the Holland Tunnel. On northbound and southbound arteries -- Hudson and Varick Streets, the West Side Highway, even Broadway -- traffic has congealed into a horn-honking, sputtering mass. It's no better on the narrow side streets that lead to the tunnel, like Broome, Watts and Spring.
Every so often when there is a break in the jam, motorists hurtle through the intersections, ignoring pedestrians trying to cross. They scurry for safety even when they have the light. 
 "I've almost been hit twice," said Fred Parvin, who lives in the neighborhood. His wife, Mary Parvin, said she closed her eyes and prayed before crossing Canal Street. "It was probably easier getting across the Berlin Wall," she said.
But drivers in the Canal Street corridor rarely get to speed for long. Many of them will spend as much as an hour trying to get out of Manhattan. Many of them will curse and whine. So what else is new?
Plenty. Traffic in both directions through the Holland Tunnel increased by 25 percent between 1986 and 1996, the most recent city figures show, while declining slightly at Manhattan's other Hudson River crossings. Downtown, the traffic situation has gotten so bad that the Transit Authority is planning to change the M-10 bus route to avoid Canal Street, much to the dismay of residents and local officials.
And things are likely to get worse. A state plan to add six lanes to the existing eight at Canal Street's intersection with the West Side Highway would dump even more cars on the street. This month, furious residents filed suit in an effort to block the plan.
Others in the neighborhood think the timing is right for another approach to ending the downtown traffic nightmare. For there is something else that is new: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato will soon be out of office.
Traffic in this city is as much about politics as it is about cars, buses and trucks, and memories can be long and unforgiving. To this day, many people in Brooklyn and Manhattan argue that some of their worst traffic woes stem from the so-called one-way toll over the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. That toll was a result of Federal legislation championed in 1986 by Guy V. Molinari, then a Republican member of Congress from Staten Island, a G.O.P. stronghold, and Senator D'Amato, who is also a Republican.
Devised to appease Staten Island residents who complained about long lines at the toll plazas on the way to Brooklyn, the one-way toll into Staten Island at a round-trip price alleviated traffic congestion there. But Brooklyn and Manhattan residents claimed that it encouraged New Jersey-bound drivers, especially truckers, to use their streets and the westbound Holland Tunnel, where there is no toll, in order to avoid paying the Verrazano toll.
For 12 years, they have been stewing as one-way-toll supporters, especially Senator D'Amato, have outmaneuvered them in maintaining what was originally supposed to be a six-month experiment. Now that he has been defeated by Charles Schumer, it looks like the battle of the Verrazano is about to be waged once again.
"I am certainly going to make an attempt to repeal that law," said Representative Jerrold Nadler, whose district includes parts of lower Manhattan and Brooklyn. He said the toll should not be a Federal matter.
City Councilwoman Kathryn Freed, who represents TriBeCa and SoHo, also maintains that it's time to get rid of the one-way toll, which she says has led to increased traffic on Canal Street. And that traffic, she said, poses a danger to residents.
"Most of us downtown date the decline in the quality of life in lower Manhattan from the moment the one-way Verrazano toll was instituted," Ms. Freed said. "From that day forward, we've been inundated with fumes and traffic. We can't cross the street, breathe the air or even sleep at night."
There are still powerful supporters of the one-way toll, like Mayor Giuliani and Mr. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President, who maintains that a return to the two-way toll would create "a real mess on Staten Island without much of an effect on Manhattan." But with Mr. D'Amato's defeat last month by Mr. Schumer, the Representative from Brooklyn, who has opposed the one-way toll, the balance of power on this issue among New York politicians may have shifted.
Or maybe not. At this point, it is not clear where Senator-elect Schumer stands on the issue of the one-way toll. An article in The Staten Island Advance just after the election reported that he had promised not to roll it back. But Mr. Schumer did not return numerous calls seeking comment on the matter. Neither did Mr. D'Amato.
Whatever position Mr. Schumer does take, the numbers clearly point to more traffic and more congestion downtown. An average of 96,798 vehicles a day passed through the Holland Tunnel in one or the other direction in 1996, compared with 77,300 a decade earlier, according to the latest figures from the city.
More vehicles left Manhattan by the Holland Tunnel (50,110 a day) than entered by it (46,688 a day). And there were more motorists taking a free ride out of Staten Island on the Verrazano bridge (96,523 a day) than paying the toll to cross over the Narrows (88,034 a day).
But is all, or any, of that because of the one-way toll? Nobody knows for sure. Yet for many, the one-way Verrazano toll remains the villain.
The Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, conceived by Robert Moses as a tunnel crossing to allow users of his highway and parkway system to bypass Manhattan and downtown Brooklyn in their travels between New England and New Jersey, also helped promote growth on Staten Island. Since the bridge opened in 1964, the borough's population has increased from around 250,000 in the mid-1960's to more than 400,000 in 1997, when the most recent census estimates were done.
And as the number of people living on Staten Island increased so did the number of vehicles that crossed the bridge, which amounted to more than 150,000 by 1984.
To address the problem of large-scale traffic jams on the Staten Island side of the bridge, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority considered one-way-toll collection in 1984. But that plan was abandoned after an agency study concluded that the change would result in the diversion of 7,000 cars and trucks a day to the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels in Manhattan, causing traffic jams there as well as increases in air pollution and an annual toll revenue loss of nearly $8 million.
The reason? Motorists traveling from Brooklyn to New Jersey would have to pay a double toll under the one-way system if they traveled through Staten Island. But if instead they used one of the free, lower Manhattan East River crossings and then took the Holland Tunnel, they would pay nothing, since Holland Tunnel tolls were, then as now, collected only in the New York-bound direction.
Undaunted, then-Representative Molinari, a member of the House Transportation Committee, took the idea of a one-way toll to Washington. In 1985 he had a measure tacked on to an appropriations bill that would deny New York highway financing if it did not try the one-way toll for six months. After that, the Governor of New York would be free to petition the Federal Government for relief on environmental or revenue grounds.
Despite strong opposition from state and city officials, who complained about Federal meddling in local affairs, the bill was shepherded through the Senate by Senator D'Amato and signed into law in December 1985.
The reaction outside Staten Island was swift. A week after the toll was made one-way, the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, sued the M.T.A., arguing that the toll change should not have been made without an environmental impact study. Members of the SoHo Alliance, a downtown Manhattan group, joined the suit.
In June 1986, a State Supreme Court Justice in Brooklyn, Franklin W. Morton Jr., ordered an environmental study. But he did not stop the toll collection.
Brian Ketcham, an engineer who analyzes traffic for civic groups and government agencies, said the impact on Canal Street was immediately obvious. At the time, he recalled earlier this month, he was surveying traffic for the proposed SoHo Grand Hotel, which was later built on the corner of West Broadway and Grand Street, a block north of Canal Street.
"We saw all these trucks that we had not seen before, stopped on Canal Street," he said. "So we went and asked them what they were doing, and they told us that they had decided to save the toll and come into Manhattan." At the time, one-way truck tolls on the Verrazano ranged from about $20 to $25. Now they start at around $30. For cars, the regular toll is now $7 but there are discounts for Staten Island residents and for people who use the E-Z Pass electronic toll collection system.
Under pressure from local Democrats -- including Mr. Schumer, who was in Congress then -- the House of Representatives voted in 1986 to rescind the one-way toll. All the members of the New York delegation, except for Mr. Molinari, supported the measure. But Senator D'Amato threatened to block an appropriations bill in the Senate, and the repeal was abandoned.
Six months passed, and the one-way toll law lapsed. But no change could be made because of the court ruling that required an environmental impact study first.
Finally, in 1987, the state finished the study. Like the earlier one by the M.T.A., it found that the one-way toll would lead to increases in traffic and pollution in Brooklyn and Manhattan and a drop in toll revenues. Mario Cuomo, then the Governor, petitioned for the lifting of the one-way toll, and in 1988 the Federal Government agreed.
Still, the toll remained. The M.T.A. said it needed to do yet another environmental impact study before deciding what kind of toll to impose instead. That took until 1993, when an inconclusive report -- widely criticized by one-way-toll opponents -- was issued after contentious hearings on both sides of the Narrows.
Meanwhile, New York's political climate was changing. In 1993, Mayor David Dinkins, an avowed foe of the one-way toll, was defeated by Rudolph Giuliani, a one-way-toll fan who won the election with the benefit of an overwhelming majority of Staten Island voters. Governor Cuomo had his own re-election bid to consider, one in which Staten Island's votes would prove to be crucial. (He lost the borough, and the election, to George Pataki, whose New York City campaign chairman was Mr. Molinari.)
By then, Susan Molinari, who succeeded her father as Staten Island's Representative in Congress, had begun sponsoring measures that kept the one-way toll going a year at a time. Despite the opposition of other members of the city's Congressional delegation, these passed as riders or amendments to larger bills with the assistance of Senator D'Amato.
After five years of this, Congress in 1995 passed a permanent extension of the one-way-toll law as part of the National Highway System Designation Act, which also eliminated the mandatory 55 mile per hour speed limit and provided money for public transit and redevelopment of Penn Station.
Only an act of Congress can get rid of the one-way toll. And in arming themselves for their next battle, both sides will have one problem in common: traffic data. Among the facts, there are many variables and inconsistencies.
Over the last decade, for example, the economy has gone up and down and up again. Tolls all over the metropolitan region have been raised, and, starting in 1995, E-Z-Pass was introduced. Highways and bridges have closed for repairs, requiring detours. And national driving trends suggest that people are pushing pedal to the metal like never before. All of these factors have surely had an effect on traffic in New York. But how? And where?
Huge amounts of data are collected about traffic, much of it under the aegis of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, the main planning body for the region, whose members include the State Department of Transportation, the City Department of Transportation, the Port Authority and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. But these agencies, which gather various types of information, often don't measure things the same way.
"We need a much more comprehensive and cohesive data collection process in this area," said Mr. Ketcham, the traffic engineer. "Until we do, we won't have a full understanding about how traffic moves."
But one thing is clear from the data. Notwithstanding the recent highly touted increases in public transit ridership, people are driving into New York City at least as much today as ever before.
According to the city's Department of Transportation, 1,768,742 vehicles traveled between Manhattan, the other boroughs and New Jersey on an average weekday in 1996, roughly as many as in 1986, when the all-time record was set.
More recent figures point to a sharp increase in that number. In 1997, the Metropolitan Transportation Council reported that 100,000 additional vehicles a day were using the bridges and tunnels of the metropolitan area, most of them in New York City, compared with the previous year. There was more traffic on the George Washington Bridge, the 59th Street Bridge and the Williamsburg, Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges, as well as through the Lincoln Tunnel, the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, and, yes, the Holland Tunnel.
How many of the vehicles using the Holland Tunnel are trucks, the nemesis of many downtown Manhattan residents? The Transportation Council counted a total of 5,287 for 1997, but it got that number by simply doubling average truck volume in the Manhattan-bound, toll direction. Trucks heading west, to New Jersey, aren't counted, said Greg Trevor, a spokesman for the Port Authority, which operates the tunnel.
And what of technology? Haven't toll-booth lines been noticeably shortened since the EZ-Pass was introduced? Is it possible that motorists on the Verrazano could glide through two-way tolls in a way that was unimaginable back in 1986?
The answer is maybe. Although the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority keeps track of how many vehicles use EZ-Pass -- nearly two-thirds of those going over the Verrazano Bridge in September did, for example -- it has no figures on the typical lengths of lines or waiting times at the toll booths.
"We do know anecdotally that the queues are much shorter" at all toll booths, said a spokesman for the Bridge and Tunnel Authority, Frank Pascual, but that's about it.
Back on Canal Street, the horns honk, the pedestrians dodge, the drivers curse. City police officers divide the area's streets into bus lanes, tunnel access lanes and through lanes, although this helps only a little, said Peter Pennicka, the chief of planning for the city's Transportation Department. Meanwhile, traffic-weary residents and their representatives demand that something be done.
Regardless of what happens with the one-way Verrazano toll, some are skeptical about ever relieving the horrors of Canal Street. "Traffic will rebalance a bit" if the Verrazano gets a two-way toll, Mr. Ketcham said, "but Canal Street will still be a nightmare."
Mr. Pennicka of the City Transportation Department agreed. "I don't think a two-way toll would matter," he said. "There's nothing more you can do to improve Canal Street."
 
You Can't See It, But It's Bad For You
As any New Yorker will tell you, it's not just the traffic that drives people in this city to distraction. There's the noise, too, and the wear and tear on the streets. Not to mention the pollution.
Richard Kassel, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council in Manhattan, said New York has two major air quality problems, both related to vehicle exhaust. One of them, excess ozone, is common in cities nationwide. But the other, particulate pollution -- pollution caused by microscopic particles of dirt in the air -- is pretty much a New York phenomenon, Mr. Kassel said.
"Manhattan has the highest particulate levels of any place east of the Mississippi," he said, "and it's almost entirely due to diesel trucks and buses and the tall buildings that trap their fumes." Particulates are not the soot that people can see on windowsills, he said, but smaller bits of dirt that are invisible to the eye.
They are by far the more dangerous, he said, because the human body has no defenses to keep them from entering the respiratory tract. New Federal standards regulate emissions of particles smaller than 2.5 microns: one-seventieth the diameter of a human hair. But 90 percent of diesel particulates, which can contain as many as 40 known human carcinogens, are actually under one micron in size, Mr. Kassel said.
To address the problem, New York State recently announced plans to add 268 clean-fuel buses to the city's fleet. It will also begin emission testing for diesel trucks and buses next June. But the tests will not necessarily detect particulates smaller than one micron, said Jim Ralston, director of air quality planning for the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. Mr. Ralston said that newer, more sensitive tests were being developed.
In the meantime, Mr. Kassel said, unacceptable levels of diesel particulates will continue to be found in New York's air, especially at "hot spots" like Madison Avenue, a major bus route, and Canal Street, where air quality frequently fails to meet Federal standards. BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Photos: Going downtown? So was everyone else, it seemed, at rush hour recently on Seventh Avenue South and Varick Street. Merger madness at the entrance to the Holland Tunnel as motorists block the box. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Holland Tunnel has only two lanes in each direction, and that means long lines, like those above for the westbound entrance. In 1996, 96,798 vehicles a day used the tunnel. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); City Councilwoman Kathryn Freed, who represents TriBeCa and SoHo, says residents are "inundated with fumes and traffic." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); Many drivers spend as much as an hour trying to get out of Manhattan. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 14); The waiting game, from the West Side Highway to the Holland Tunnel. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 15)
 
Map showing the location of Manhattan and all the surrounding bridges and tunnels. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 59 NATIONAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM DESIGNATION ACT OF 1995 (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; VERRAZANO-NARROWS BRIDGE (NYC); TOLLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION VEHICLE TRAFFIC (91%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); LEGISLATION (83%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); STAMLER, BERNARD CHARLES SCHUMER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



290 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
New Mergers May Conjure The Ghosts Of Nazis Past

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
FIVE decades later, it's still a sensitive issue. Should Jews and members of other groups persecuted by the Nazis avoid buying products made by German companies like Volkswagen or Siemens?
David A. Harris, executive director of the American Jewish Committee, said he often polled audiences on the issue at his speaking engagements. There was a time when the idea of buying a Mercedes was anathema to many American Jews, some of whom fled Europe before the Holocaust. But the sentiment recedes with each passing year, Mr. Harris said, as younger Jews find themselves part of a global economy in which German companies are major participants. 
 "There remains a core group of elderly and middle-aged Jews who categorically would never set foot in Germany or buy German products," said Mr. Harris, 49, who doesn't count himself among that group. "But I've seldom seen a young American Jew balk at buying a BMW."
The relationship between American Jews and German companies has come to the fore again through a collision of two trends: a wave of big mergers between German and American companies, and a growing number of lawsuits against German and other companies seeking compensation for Holocaust-era wrongs.
Most recently, the New York City Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, called on Federal and state regulators to block the proposed takeover of Bankers Trust by Deutsche Bank until the German bank resolves accusations that it profited from the Nazi war machine. Some American Jews were also displeased when Daimler-Benz, the maker of Mercedes automobiles, merged with Chrysler, forming DaimlerChrysler.
Roman Kent, the chairman of the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors, said his organization's members still do not buy German products. "For us survivors, time is not the best medicine," said Mr. Kent, who was imprisoned in several concentration camps. "Now that I'm older, when I have more time to reflect, the memories come back and hound me more than they did when I was making a living and having a family."
But some people involved in the growing wave of claims against German banks and manufacturers offer a different perspective. Elan Steinberg, the 43-year-old executive director of the World Jewish Congress, which began the campaign that forced Swiss banks to search for dormant accounts opened by people who perished in the Holocaust, said he had no problem buying German products.
In addition, while many of the lawyers representing Holocaust survivors and their families are Jewish, many Jewish lawyers and business people can also be found among those defending the companies from which compensation is being sought.
Curtis J. Hoxter, president of Hoxter Inc., a public relations and marketing company based in New York, found himself with the unenviable task of explaining the posture of Swiss banks to reporters as the controversy over the dormant accounts exploded.
Mr. Hoxter, who fled Germany as a teen-ager in 1938, has spent much of his career representing German and Swiss companies, a role he says his first wife, now deceased, viewed with displeasure.
"She wouldn't buy a German car," Mr. Hoxter said. "She originally protested, 'How could you work for a Germany company?' But in general, I have no problems with it."
At times, Mr. Hoxter said, his job has allowed him to extract his own small measure of vengeance. He was once introduced to a Porsche official whose name sounded familiar. Mr. Hoxter, who served as an American intelligence officer during World War II, said he awoke that night and remembered who the man was: an organizer of a murderous sneak attack in which German infantrymen disguised themselves in American uniforms. Mr. Hoxter said he told Porsche about the man's wartime role, and the man was dismissed.
Mr. Harris, of the American Jewish Committee, said his views on buying German were changed by his first trip to Israel. To his surprise, he saw that all the taxis and buses there were Mercedes models.
"I couldn't understand it" at first, Mr. Harris said. "Then I came to understand that Germany is Israel's closest friend in the world after the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Harris, top, of the American Jewish Committee, said sentiment against buying German products fades with every passing year, especially among younger Jews. But for Roman Kent of the American Gathering of Holocaust Survivors, "time is not the best medicine."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE; AMERICAN GATHERING OF HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS SIEMENS AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (91%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE; AMERICAN GATHERING OF HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (91%); AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; SUITS AND LITIGATION JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); HOLOCAUST (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FAMILY (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); LAWYERS (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY; HARRIS, DAVID A; KENT, ROMAN CURTIS J HOXTER (90%); DAVID A HARRIS (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



291 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Urban Renewal: First and Ten, Bond It Again!

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
Football fans will tell you that winning is all about intangibles. This is particularly true when the goal is to sell the taxpayers a $375 million stadium.
"You cannot measure, you cannot weigh the new spirit that will be created by an N.F.L. team," Gov. John Rowland told Connecticut's state legislators last week. On Tuesday the Legislature is going to vote on a deal that would relocate the New England Patriots to Hartford, a move that Robert Kraft, the Patriots' owner, refers to in terms bordering on the matrimonial. ("We're taking an asset we're very passionate about. . . . We're telling you we want to partner with Hartford.") Mr. Kraft has nevertheless done an excellent job of weighing and measuring what it will take to consummate the relationship. The stipulation describing how the state will pay him up to $17.5 million a year in reimbursements if the Patriots fail to sell their new and very expensive luxury boxes reads a little like a prenuptial agreement. 
 Mr. Rowland has been lobbying the legislators with a mix of sports metaphors and a sort of hard-nosed mysticism -- Knute Rockne meets Buffy the Vampire Slayer. When they express doubt that large numbers of area residents will pay $5,000 to watch the games in a seat that has waiter service, the Governor tells them that "no dream is worth having without some risk involved."
But Mr. Kraft's side of the deal is actually very specific and risk-averse, while Connecticut gets all the parts about partnership and passion and the promise of economic touchdowns. The legislative leaders, who cannot be thrilled that the deal recently starred in one of NBC's "Fleecing of America" news features, are pressing the Patriots for concessions.
Nevertheless, the lawmakers seem eager to be won over. After Mr. Kraft made his pitch at a public hearing last week, a State Senator from the Hartford suburbs announced he had decided to support the project when he saw Mr. Kraft kiss his son Jonathan, the Patriots' vice president. Almost no one has publicly rejected the entire idea of committing public funds to the pursuit of a professional football team that would play a total of 10 home games a year. When anyone does, the Governor just asks if there are any better ideas about how to resuscitate Hartford. Connecticut's state capital is a physically small city, hemmed in by suburbs that guard their autonomy like Rottweilers. It has been the beneficiary, or victim, of lots of redevelopment schemes over the years, which sliced up neighborhoods with highways and drove out small businesses to make way for office towers. The night life is so bleak that the traditional restaurant hangout for politicians has moved to the suburbs. "People actually coming downtown -- now there's a novel idea," said Mr. Rowland.
Think of this as the Hail Mary of urban redevelopment. Everybody knows Hartford's citizens have dozens of needs more pressing than football, but they are needs that defy normal political answers. The state is already shoveling money into Hartford's schools, which deliver abysmal education at the cost of about $10,000 per pupil -- as much as the richest towns in Connecticut spend. The local Board of Education once embraced that spirit of risk the Governor finds so energizing and hired a private company to run the system, an experiment that ended in disaster. The board has now been replaced by state trustees, who are facing a long, gritty trench war against the effects of years of patronage hiring, bad contract negotiations and bureaucratic intransigence.
It is no wonder the legislators are relieved to be talking about something big and showy and specific -- what Hartford's Mayor calls "the Big Bang theory of getting things done." The state, Mr. Rowland reminded them recently, has spent $650 million on economic development in Bridgeport, but the most heralded achievement is a low-budget stadium for a minor-league baseball team called the Bridgeport Bluefish. The mention of the Bluefish inspired one of the lawmakers to ask Mr. Kraft if he didn't think Connecticut would do better by finding Hartford a Triple-A baseball franchise. "If you think a minor-league ball team can rejuvenate the city," said the owner doubtfully. Only he, Mr. Kraft reminded them, could make their capital the star of "Monday Night Football." And how do you put a price tag on that?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); SUBURBS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SPORTS FANS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (79%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); FAMILY LAW (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); DOGS (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



292 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2919 words

HEADLINE: Boeing's Leaders, Losing Altitude

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
LISTENING to Philip M. Condit and Harry C. Stonecipher talk about the difficulties facing the Boeing Company, the global aerospace powerhouse and national icon they jointly run, oddly brings to mind the feminist battle cry of the 1980's: They just don't get it.
After an awful year of monumental production foul-ups, $4 billion in unexpected accounting charges and lots of talk about illusive recovery plans, the news from Boeing only seems to get worse. Earlier this month, the company stunned investors and its 232,000 employees, more than 40 percent of whom reside here in the Puget Sound area, with the announcement that it would cut as many as 48,000 jobs by 2001 -- and still make only a negligible profit. 
 The news from the nation's single largest exporter rippled across the country like the storms that pour rain on this city and then head east. President Clinton weighed in with his concerns about the company's health. And on Wall Street, shareholders -- who had been led by Boeing to believe the worst was over -- began selling in anger, even disgust. Boeing stock closed at $33.125 a share on Friday after selling for as much as $56.25 in April.
"This is one of the great American industrial franchises of the 20th century," said John Hayes, an analyst at Independence Investment Associates, an institutional money manager that sold its stake of several million Boeing shares last year. "For the business to be in this kind of disarray is unfathomable. These guys have been doing this a long time. They should know how to build planes at a profit."
Yet in their first interview since announcing the latest cuts, Mr. Condit, the chairman and chief executive, and Mr. Stonecipher, the president and chief operating officer, spoke last week as if Boeing had no choice but to make the decisions that have laid it low -- to sell hundreds of airplanes at cut-rate prices in 1995 and 1996 and then to nearly triple production rates, from 18 airplanes a month to the current record rate of 51.
"No one could have run this place successfully for the last year," said Mr. Stonecipher, the former chief executive of McDonnell Douglas, who joined Boeing after it acquired McDonnell last year for $16 billion, creating a national monopoly in large passenger jets and the world's biggest military contractor and aerospace company, with more than $56 billion in revenues expected this year.
"The systems were overloaded to the point where it doesn't matter who was in charge," he said. "You could have worked it a lot of different ways; the result would have been the same."
MR. CONDIT'S credibility seems especially weak, because he has had to revise so many of his public positions in the last year. Yet while contrite, he still has trouble, even in hindsight, viewing the company's actions as a colossal blunder. "I think we were very close to making it," he said of the ill-fated ramp-up in production. "So it isn't, gosh, you can look back and say, 'It was clear you wouldn't have.' "
Boeing's 13-member board is set to meet tomorrow in the wood-paneled boardroom where Mr. Condit and Mr. Stonecipher were talking. And for the first time in anyone's memory, as The Seattle Times pointed out in an editorial last Sunday, the ouster of a Boeing chief executive is being openly discussed by employees and on Wall Street.
"If I was on the board, I would be taking a hard look at whether to keep him," said Bill Whitlow, an analyst at Safeco Asset Management in Seattle and manager of a fund that holds 67,500 Boeing shares.
Seven of the outside board members declined to comment; three did not respond to telephone messages and one other board member could not be reached. While Mr. Condit acknowledged that he was in the hot seat, he said that he was working harder than ever and that he didn't think a change at the top made sense.
"I think we are better together than either one of us would be alone," he said, referring to Mr. Stonecipher, adding later, "I could not imagine a better partner."
Still, if Mr. Condit's days are numbered, Mr. Stonecipher, 62, may be positioned to cap his long career as Boeing's next chairman. That idea rankles many employees of the old Boeing -- "heritage Boeing," in the company's post-merger parlance -- because after years of bruising competition they, not McDonnell Douglas, had prevailed in the marketplace.
"I have heard internal comments that, 'Hey, we won, but now they are running the show,' " Mr. Whitlow said.
Boeing loyalists especially resent what they see as the heavy hand of Mr. Stonecipher, a blunt talker who became popular on Wall Street first by turning around the Sundstrand Corporation, a maker of aerospace components, and then by sharply improving McDonnell's financial performance before selling that company to Boeing.
As Boeing's problems worsened in the last year, Mr. Stonecipher's power appears to have grown. He, rather than Mr. Condit, 57, is seen as the man behind the departures of a number of Boeing executives with whom Mr. Stonecipher is said to have clashed, including the longtime chief financial officer and the head of the commercial airplane division.
Mr. Stonecipher, who had a large stake in McDonnell Douglas, is now one of Boeing's largest shareholders; so is John F. McDonnell, the son of one of McDonnell's founders, who like Mr. Stonecipher is on the Boeing board. Mr. Condit, like other board members who came from the old Boeing, owns relatively little stock.
Investors and analysts credit Mr. Stonecipher with sharpening Boeing's focus on shareholder value. Boeing's decisions to increase greatly its communication with Wall Street, disclose earnings targets, announce large job cuts and buy back up to 15 percent of its stock all echo Mr. Stonecipher's previous stints at Sundstrand and McDonnell. (The company's new candor, of course, has contributed to its problems, as promises and predictions have failed to materialize. But Mr. Condit says he still thinks that Boeing should keep lines of communication open with investors.)
Mr. Stonecipher is also seen on Wall Street as a strong executive who holds his charges accountable, while Mr. Condit is widely viewed as a talented engineer who is out of his element running the country's 11th-largest industrial company.
In the interview on Wednesday, Mr. Condit and Mr. Stonecipher dismissed talk about differences between them as idle gossip. Mr. Condit said that they leaned on each other and often swapped roles, but that Mr. Stonecipher's job was to focus more on day-to-day operations while he concentrated on longer-term strategy.
Few people privy to the inner workings of Boeing's executive suite would comment on relations between the men. Current and former Boeing executives are reluctant to criticize them.
The two men could not be more different. Mr. Stonecipher is tough-talking, quick-tempered and unsentimental. He was raised modestly in the coal-mining regions of eastern Tennessee and worked his way up through General Electric for 27 years, rising to become head of its jet engine business before spending seven years at Sundstrand and three at McDonnell Douglas. He has been married to his Tennessee sweetheart for more than 40 years.
Mr. Condit grew up comfortably as an only child in San Francisco, where his father was a chemist for Standard Oil. He joined Boeing in 1965 after getting a master's degree in aeronautical engineering from Princeton and was quickly identified as a golden boy destined for greater things within the company. In addition to doing engineering work on a variety of airplanes, Mr. Condit had stints in sales and marketing. He was named president of Boeing in 1992, rising to chief executive in 1996 and to chairman last year. He is currently going through his third divorce.
WHILE Mr. Stonecipher is feared, Mr. Condit, who is known for his people skills, is genuinely liked. "I'm a little more aggressive than Phil," Mr. Stonecipher told a group of potential investors in New York last year. "I'm more likely to shoot you and then ask you your name. Phil is likely to ask you your name and then shoot you."
Mr. Condit's crowning moment was in the early 1990's, when he led the team that designed the 777, Boeing's newest and most modern jetliner. In the course of that project, he promoted an uncharacteristic degree of teamwork that he has since tried to spread to the entire company.
A self-described lifelong learner, Mr. Condit received his Ph.D. last year from the Science University of Tokyo. He is also not afraid to help Boeing executives -- not the most introspective group -- get in touch with their feelings. Four years ago, he hired David J. Whyte, a poet and motivational speaker, to run workshops with top managers. In one meeting at Mr. Condit's home, the executives were asked to write down negative stories about Boeing and toss them into a bonfire so that only positive, inspirational stories would remain.
These days, executives would likely be tossing Boeing's last five quarterly earnings reports into the blaze.
The company's difficulties building commercial jets have prevented it from capitalizing on one of the biggest sales booms ever. Though Boeing has only one competitor left -- Airbus Industrie, the European consortium -- and is building more jets than ever, it says it will make hardly any money for the next two years from selling them. Analysts say that by the time Boeing fixes its problems, demand will have dried up.
In acquiring McDonnell Douglas, Mr. Condit wanted his rival's large military operations. Along with the space business of Rockwell International, which Boeing bought for $3.2 billion in 1996, they were supposed to help Boeing balance the ups and downs of the notoriously cyclical passenger airplane market. But even with all those new businesses, Boeing expects to earn only $1 billion this year, a meager 1.8 percent return on sales.
In hindsight, it seems obvious that Boeing's commercial airplane business was headed for trouble, given what the company was trying to do. Two years ago, when demand for new planes began to pick up after a drought in the mid-90's, Boeing made a bold bid to gain market share by offering steep discounts. Executives believed that plans to overhaul Boeing's production systems -- which date to World War II and are still largely paper-based -- would allow the company to lower the unit cost of each jet by 25 percent, so that it would make a profit even at the low prices.
As orders poured in, Boeing was forced to increase production to 40 planes a month, from 18, in a year and a half. Rather than help, the efforts to consolidate 400 separate computer systems, track millions of parts and digitize thousands of drawings added to the rising confusion. Parts shortages developed, and work fell behind schedule as thousands of new workers -- hired to replace older, skilled laborers who took early retirement during the previous down cycle -- could not handle the load.
At the same time, Boeing was trying to introduce several new models, each of which required certification by regulators in Washington and Europe, adding to the delays. In addition, many of its new orders were from new customers, which meant tens of thousands of hours of engineering work to customize the planes to their specifications.
By early October last year, Boeing's assembly lines around Seattle had seized up. The company said it would halt production of its 747 and 737 jets for a month to catch its breath. Along with costly changes on the new 737, that resulted in a stunning $2.6 billion in accounting charges.
Investors were angry; Boeing had been insisting for months that reports of production difficulties were exaggerated. Over the next year, as the airplane division struggled to recover, a pattern developed. Executives led by Mr. Condit would try to put the best face on the situation. But just when it seemed things were turning around, the company would drop another bombshell.
A low point came in July, when Boeing released its second-quarter earnings and, for the first time, offered earnings guidance to Wall Street analysts. While most analysts were estimating that Boeing would earn $1.64 a share this year and $3.24 a share in 1999 -- down from as high as $5 before the production difficulties arose -- Mr. Condit said the company expected to make $1.01 a share in 1998 and $2.02 a share in '99.
Boeing's share price plunged, and analysts were irate. The next day, when Mr. Condit met in Boston with institutional investors and analysts, one analyst all but called him a liar. At a similar session in New York the next day, another analyst implied that Mr. Condit was deliberately trying to drive down the price of the stock to buy it on the cheap.
Shaken, Mr. Condit, returned to Seattle and told colleagues he never wanted to be put in such a position again.
But his credibility has continued to deteriorate. In the spring, Mr. Condit strongly defended Ronald B. Woodard, the head of the commercial airplane division, when many people were calling for his head. Five months later, he ousted Mr. Woodard, who had been in line to become Boeing's president. Insiders now say that Mr. Condit's mistake was not firing Mr. Woodard sooner.
Boyd E. Givan, Boeing's chief financial officer for 32 years, was also forced to resign after reportedly clashing with Mr. Stonecipher. "I thought they shot the messenger," said Dean Thornton, a retired Boeing executive. Mr. Givan will be replaced by Deborah C. Hopkins, former chief financial officer for General Motors Europe, who starts work tomorrow.
Mr. Condit said that if he finds fault with himself, it is in underestimating the challenge of transforming Boeing from a company of the cold war era, which valued engineering performance above all, to one that also values financial performance.
Now, he said, "we have unhooked ourselves from market share intentionally and said what we are about is running a profitable company."
Mr. Condit and Mr. Stonecipher said that the bad news this month was unavoidable, because the economic downturn in Asia had forced the company to cut back its production in 2000 far more than it had thought.
The explanation is puzzling: For more than a year, the company's assessment had been much less pessimistic than those of outsiders; now, when some experts are beginning to say that conditions in Asia are improving, Boeing is saying the situation is worse than ever.
"I think most of the world is really in denial about what's going on in Asia," Mr. Stonecipher said.
What really alarmed investors about Boeing's recent disclosures was the company's acknowledgment that margins on its commercial airplanes would be even lower in 2000 than in 1999. Boeing attributed the deterioration to expectations that it will sell more of its new models, which command lower margins than older planes. But the announcement raised analysts' concerns that it will take Boeing longer than anticipated to make its assembly lines more efficient.
Already, Alan Mulally, the new head of the commercial airplane division, has delayed the production modernization program; instead, the company will try to deliver planes on time and avoid penalties. "We are probably the least efficient we have ever been making airplanes," Mr. Mulally said in an interview last week. Thousands of extra workers are on the payroll simply to get planes out the door, he said.
With this month's layoff warning, many of those people are fearing for their jobs, even as Boeing depends on them to help it out of a jam. "It's a helluva Christmas present to give Boeing employees," said Bill Johnson, president of the machinists union local that represents 39,000 Boeing workers.
The union, which struck Boeing for 69 days in 1995, is gearing up for negotiations next August, and it believes it has Boeing over a barrel. The company wants to introduce a new workweek to cut overtime and institute co-payments on health insurance. The union will have none of it.
"We are not going to be mean," Mr. Johnson said. "We are just going to make sure we get the things we want. They cannot afford a strike in September. I see them somewhat on the defensive already."
Can Mr. Condit ride out the current storm? On paper, the odds look to be in his favor. Only 4 of the 13 board members, including Mr. Stonecipher, came from McDonnell Douglas. Eight are Boeing holdovers, presumably with loyalties to Mr. Condit, including such pillars of the Northwest as George Weyerhaeuser, the paper magnate, and Charles M. Pigott, the former chairman of a truck maker, Paccar Inc.
EVEN with Mr. Stonecipher in the executive suite, there is no clear succession plan. He would be popular with investors, but faces mandatory retirement in less than three years. The only other obvious candidate within Boeing is Mr. Mulally, 53, who has his hands full turning around the jet business and is not yet considered seasoned enough to be chief executive.
Bringing a new leader into Boeing from outside would be a dramatic step for the proud company. But it could hasten changes that Mr. Condit and his predecessors have talked about implementing for the last decade, with little apparent progress.
"Boards really aren't very compassionate," Mr. Stonecipher said. "The moment the board decides that somebody else can get this thing done for them, we will be out of here the next day."
Is Boeing at that point today? Mr. Stonecipher did not hesitate to answer. "No," he replied.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boeing is struggling in the midst of one of the biggest sales booms ever for aircraft. At the Pinal County Airpark near Marana, Ariz., Boeing jetliners, many of them ordered by foreign airlines, are parked in storage while the company awaits payment. (David Sanders for The New York Times)(pg. 11); As Boeing has faltered, Harry C. Stonecipher, left, and Philip M. Condit have not had a happy year. (Larry Davis for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Flying Through Turbulence"
 
1997
 
AUG. 4 -- Completes merger with McDonnell Douglas.
 
OCT. 3 -- Announces production recovery plan halting assembly of 747's and new-model 737's so workers can catch up on work that is behind schedule.
 
OCT. 22 -- Says it will take a $1.6 billion pre-tax charge in the third quarter for production problems and expects another $1 billion charge in fourth quarter.
 
OCT. 24 -- We are making significant progress on our recovery plans, says Philip M. Condit, chairman and chief executive. At this point, I think we will get our production back in order, so over all I am feeling pretty good.
 
DEC. 16 -- Says it will cut 12,000 jobs in its commercial airplane division by mid-1998.
 
1998
 
JAN. 21 -- Announces $1.4 billion charge stemming from cancellation of the MD-80 and MD-90 airplanes.
 
JAN. 27 -- Says it lost $178 million in 1997, its first annual loss in 50 years. The recovery plan is in place and on track, Mr. Condit says. Working together, we think 1998 will be a year of dramatically improved performance and shareholder value.
 
MARCH 20 -- Discloses plan to consolidate many facilities and lay off an additional 8,200 workers.
 
APRIL 9 -- Announces $350 million charge against earnings stemming from production problems with the new version of the 737.
 
APRIL 22 -- First-quarter net earnings are down 91 percent from a year earlier.
 
APRIL 27 -- Mr. Condit rejects calls for the ouster of Ronald B. Woodard, head of Boeing's commercial airplane division.
 
JULY 23 -- Second-quarter earnings fall 46 percent; company stuns Wall Street with earnings targets for 1998 and 1999 that are 40 percent below consensus estimates. It plans to cut employment by at least 28,000 by the end of 1999.
 
SEPT. 1 -- Mr. Woodard is ousted.

DEC. 2 -- Says 1999 and 2000 profits will be significantly lower than previously forecast. An additional 20,000 jobs will be cut by the end of 2000. The situation in Asia has worsened dramatically, Mr. Condit says.
 
OCT. 22 -- Third-quarter earnings beat analysts' expectations.
 
Graph shows boeing stock price plotted daily, Since Jan 1997.
FRIDAY: $33.125 DOWN $0.9375
 
Graph: "A Financial Snapshot" shows net income (loss), deliveries for commercial aircraft and orders on backlog for commercial aircraft, for the Boeing Corp)
 
* Data for Boeing only before acquisition of McDonnell Douglas.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Boeing Corp.; news reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (74%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO BOEING CO (98%); INDEPENDENCE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (74%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (71%); AIRLINES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; CONDIT, PHILIP M; STONECIPHER, HARRY C BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



293 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Conflicting Signals on Corporate Earnings

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE corporate earnings pre-announcement season is opening on a sour note with bad news from the likes of Merck, Coca-Cola, Boeing, Newell and Sears, Roebuck, as well as from several utility companies that have been hurt by the unseasonably warm weather.
The financial crisis in Asia and elsewhere is an aggravating problem for some, like Boeing. But for others, like Newell, a maker of consumer products, it may be that the slowdown is finally emerging in the United States. Newell said last week that sales had slumped for its Calphalon cookware and Rolodex files. 
 But investors are going to have trouble sorting out how Wall Street analysts think fourth-quarter profits will finally shake out when the earnings announcements are made early next year. As of now, they can get two distinctly different signals from the most closely watched firms that collect Wall Street earnings forecasts.
I.B.E.S. International says that the analysts' earnings forecasts it compiles for the 500 companies in the Standard & Poor's index indicate that overall operating profits will fall five-tenths of 1 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with the period in 1997. With the decline of 6.2 percent in the third quarter, this would be the first two-quarter decline in earnings since 1991.
But the First Call Corporation says the analysts it tracks predict that overall operating earnings will grow by 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter. That would not be a bad rebound from the 3.1 percent decline that First Call calculated for the third quarter. Charles Hill, First Call's research director, expects the final number to be lower, but still around 4 percent. (Coke's own earnings downgrading Friday is in the I.B.E.S. number and will lower First Call's this week.)
One reason for the gap is that some of the analysts are different. First Call, for example, does not use earnings estimates from analysts at Standard & Poor's. The policies at each firm are different for updating forecasts when analysts change their numbers.
But the main difference seems to be how each firm compares the current quarter with the previous one.
I.B.E.S. compares the earnings estimates for the 500 companies now in the S.& P. to the earnings for the 500 companies that were in the index a year earlier. First Call adjusts the year-earlier S.& P. 500 to reflect the makeup of the current index.
There have been 43 changes in the S.& P. 500 index this year. Chrysler is gone. BankAmerica and Nationsbank merged and Union Planters was added. MCI and Worldcom merged and RJR Nabisco was added.
"There are a record number of changes because of mergers," said David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S.& P. "The fact that they are dealing with a different composition would make a difference."
Unfortunately, all these reasons do not explain fully the gap between the estimates, and it might take a lot of computer time -- and cooperation between the two firms -- to find an explanation. But there is little doubt that the divergence is not helping the credibility of the data. "It worries me that we are three percentage points off in the third quarter and almost five percentage points off in the fourth quarter," Mr. Hill said. "I wouldn't have a clue of where we could be doing something wrong on this."
What do investors do? First Call is comparing apples to apples, and that is probably better. But all investors should remember that there is a bigger problem with the analysts who make the forecasts that the two companies compile. Year in and year out, they are virtually always too optimistic and spend most of their time scaling back earlier predictions.
This means that both the I.B.E.S. and First Call earnings forecasts for the first and second quarters of 1999 are likely to be revised downward. That is even a surer bet than usual given the new signs of a slowing American economy. The Federal Reserve's current regional economic survey showed that retail sales were weaker than expected, manufacturing was "generally softer" and growth slowed in five regions.
And American exports dropped $1.2 billion in the third quarter, reflecting the disappearance of demand from the rest of the world as Asian and developing economies slow down or sink into recessions.
"My boss asked me what will happen to the earnings forecasts in the first and second quarter," said Joseph Abbott, United States research manager at I.B.E.S. "I told him I was sure they were going to go down. But I don't know how much."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Whom Do You Trust?" shows quarterly year-over-year S.& P. 500 earnings growth estimates from I.B.E.S. International and First Call for 1998 and 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (72%); BAC (LSE) (72%); 8648 (TSE) (72%); KO (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (50%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: IBES INTERNATIONAL INC; FIRST CALL CORP FIRST CALL CORP (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (72%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); BOEING CO (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (50%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: IBES INTERNATIONAL INC; FIRST CALL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); MERGERS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



294 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Again, TheGlass Looks Half-Empty

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Sometimes corporate earnings matter to investors, and sometimes they don't. Last week they mattered again.
These shifting sands make investing in the stock market mighty exasperating today. Since the market came back to life in October, investors have felt safe buying stocks, regardless of the earnings outlook. Their focus was on the positive effect that three Federal Reserve interest rate cuts would have on stock prices. 
 But with further Fed easing unlikely before February, all eyes are on earnings. Last week, fears about lower corporate profits knocked down shares in Coca-Cola, the Ciena Corporation and Ralston-Purina. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.1 percent on the week.
Not much has changed in the earnings picture. Sure, fourth-quarter profit warnings have begun. But investors seem to think that the glass they see is half-empty, not half-full.
One thing that may be confusing investors is the extreme difference in opinion between investment strategists and industry analysts about what 1999 holds for profits. According to First Call, Wall Street market strategists think earnings at Standard & Poor's 500 companies will rise an average of 4.2 percent next year. But when First Call compiles estimates of individual industry analysts, the earnings-growth forecast jumps to 18.7 percent. Although the gulf between the two groups is often large, it has not yawned this wide since First Call began tracking the data five years ago.
Of course, investors could shrug off the bad news on profits, as they have done before. But there are several reasons that earnings may continue to nag at investors' psyches. One is that a glut in almost everything -- from commodities like oil to finished goods like computers -- means that companies cannot raise their prices. Though a plunge in commodity prices provides an initial benefit to some companies by lowering their costs, it also makes it difficult to raise prices on finished products. So profits will be under pressure.
Ed Hyman, a founder of International Strategy and Investment in New York, has identified a relationship between commodity prices and corporate earnings that may presage a big decline in 1999 profits. Tracking year-over-year changes in both the S.& P. 500's operating earnings and the Commodity Research Bureau's commodity index, Mr. Hyman found that the moves had a 64 percent correlation. With the commodity index down 17.5 percent this year, corporate earnings could be vulnerable next year.
Another possible threat to earnings lies in consumer spending. Although consumer confidence has rebounded from its nose dive earlier this fall, it has started to slip again. The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index dropped from 102.7 in November to a preliminary 100.7 this month.
And while retail sales have been strong this holiday season, Jason Trennert, vice president at I.S.I. reports that retailers say their pricing power is extremely weak -- 4.2 on a scale of 0 to 100. Even when business is good, profits are tougher and tougher to come by.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Wheat and Chaff" shows
 
(Source: Bridge News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CIEN (NASDAQ) (71%); KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (71%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: CIENA CORP (71%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MICHIGAN, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); RETAILERS (68%); RETAIL SALES (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ED HYMAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



295 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Legacy ofthe 90's Boom: More Jobs for Black Men

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
ONE heartening byproduct of the current economic boom is that more young black men are working or going to school. In the last few years, unemployment rates have dropped sharply, the share of 16- to 24-year-olds at work has rebounded, and school enrollment has spurted.
Almost any gains on this front are worth celebrating. The collapse of work among young black men in the 1960's and 1970's counts as the biggest economic and social disaster of the post-World War II era. 
 Back in the bad old '40s and '50s, young black men were as likely to work as young white men were. By the 1970's, the pay gap between young black and young white workers had all but disappeared. But in the decades that followed, steady, legitimate work simply disappeared from the lives of half of the country's young black men.
After nearly eight years of growth, the tightest labor market in decades is having a noticeable effect on their participation in the work force and on employers' willingness to hire them. (The employment figures do not reflect the growth in the percentage of young black men who are in jail or prison, so it is unclear whether things have improved quite as much as the jobs data show.)
The question now is whether the recent improvement has a chance of sticking through the next recession. Labor markets were tight in the late 80's, and more young black men found work then, too -- only to see their gains disappear in the 1990's.
There are some reasons for cautious optimism. For starters, the rewards of working have been growing lately. Since 1996, pay for the bottom 20 percent of the work force -- the young, inexperienced and unskilled, who tend to work in stores and restaurants -- are seeing wage gains of 3.6 percent a year after inflation, thanks both to increases in the minimum wage and to employers' difficulties in filling vacancies. "That's much better than anything we've seen in the last 25 years," said Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard and a former chief economist at the Labor Department. Some economists think the long-term trends driving down pay at the bottom of the ladder may be abating.
Federal help for the working poor adds to the payoff. "Between the Bush and Clinton Administrations, subsidies to working poor have exploded," said Douglas J. Besharov of the American Enterprise Institute. And day care subsidies have mushroomed.
Cities and states, meanwhile, have stopped making welfare checks available to single men, as some have done since the 1960's, and Washington has dropped single men from eligibility for food stamps.
The push to move many single mothers off welfare also seems to be changing domestic arrangements in ways promoting work among young black males. At least half who leave the rolls depart not for jobs but to move in with someone else, often a husband or boyfriend. "Are some of those 50 percent telling boyfriends, 'If you expect to continue this relationship, you'd better get a job'?" Mr. Besharov asked rhetorically. "It's a plausible story, for which there's very little evidence."
More important, the main alternative to work -- crime -- has become a much less attractive way to make a living. The crack cocaine trade has collapsed. Estimates of hourly pay in the illegal-drug business suggest that it is surprisingly low, perhaps not much more than the current minimum wage. And the police in cities like New York have gotten savvier as well as tougher, said James Q. Wilson of the University of California at Los Angeles. So crime rates are down sharply in many cities.
According to Bruce Weinberg, an economist at Ohio State University, there is some evidence that a more vibrant job market for low-skilled workers means fewer muggings, burglaries, car thefts and other property crimes. But the direction of causation probably goes the other way. "Crime may cause poverty," wrote Abigail and Stephan Thernstrom in their book, "America in Black and White." They cite evidence that crime is a major reason employers leave the inner city, and a strong reason some employers are reluctant to hire young black men, whether they have criminal records or have merely been stereotyped.
The gains of the 1980's boom may have evaporated so quickly because of crack cocaine. In the late 1980's, a well-known study of young black men in Massachusetts by Professor Katz and his colleague Richard Freeman found that, even though many more found jobs when the overall unemployment rate fell below 3 percent, two-thirds -- twice the proportion of five years earlier -- said their chances of making a good living were better on the streets than in legitimate jobs. That fraction has probably declined.
For young black men today, "having less of a criminal record and more of a work record is a good sign for when they're older," said Professor Katz.
Mr. Besharov added, "The strong economy primes the pump, but as people change attitudes and build up their ability for work, some of the gains are going to stick."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BLACKS; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); MEN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); RESTAURANTS (62%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



296 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Many Brake Lights On the Economic Road

 BODY:
Signs abound that both the American and the global economies are slowing.
The Federal Reserve's "beige book" report on regional business conditions around the country in November found growth slowing, exports contracting and retail sales weakening in many areas. 
 Warnings of softening overseas sales came from Union Carbide, Coca-Cola and other companies, as did a clutch of reductions in analysts' earnings forecasts for widely followed companies. J. P. Morgan & Company warned investors to expect sharply lower earnings. The number of planned job cuts by United States businesses rose in November from a year earlier, putting the annual total on track for the largest number of cuts in five years, according to the monthly survey conducted by Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an employment firm. Initial claims for unemployment insurance inched up again. Overseas, Ericsson, the Swedish maker of cellular phones, said that its profits were sagging and that it would lay off 10,000 more workers.
The difference in yield between long-and short-term Treasury securities continued to narrow, a development often interpreted as a harbinger of an economic slowdown. Britain cut interest rates for the third month running, this time lowering its benchmark rate by half a percentage point; most of the countries that will begin using the euro in January cut rates last week.
None of this seems to be snapping consumers' wallets shut. Retail sales unexpectedly rose 0.6 percent in November, marking four months in a row of robust growth and prompting analysts to raise their forecasts for the holiday shopping season as a whole.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (83%); ERIC.A (STO) (83%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); EURO (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



297 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Commodity Deflation And Trade Angst

 BODY:
When the Labor Department reported on Friday that wholesale prices fell in November, much of the reason could be found in a continuing slump in commodity prices, especially for energy. Two widely followed commodity indexes, compiled by Goldman, Sachs and by the Commodity Research Bureau, hit their lowest levels in decades. Other than precious metals, which were already deeply depressed when 1998 began, every major commodity sector is off at least 16 percent for the year so far. Crude oil slipped below $11 a barrel, with no end to the decline in sight even though OPEC countries agreed to extend production curbs that were due to expire. 
 Low prices are battering American steelmakers, which have complained that distressed Asian competitors are dumping underpriced steel in the United States and which are waging a lobbying offensive in Washington, hoping for relief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DEFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); LOBBYING (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



298 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Winning the Recruiting Bowl

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As a former analyst with a major consulting firm and a current business school student, I read "The Wall Street Recruiting Bowl" (Nov. 29) with interest. 
 During my three years in management consulting, I reviewed hundreds of resumes from eager college seniors looking to score an offer. The most impressive individuals were always those with true, clear passions that went beyond the collection of a paycheck. The interviewer's job is to discern which applicants are asking insightful questions because of a natural interest and not as a device to "fast track" themselves into interviews. While both types may become good analysts, it is the former group who will go on to become tomorrow's managers and leaders.
From a recruiter's perspective, the largess of the "sell" continues to amaze me. There's an important difference between treating prospective employees well and trying to dazzle students into accepting your offer -- especially when it can backfire. After all, how many consulting and banking firms really want to hire someone who was willing to make a substantial life decision based on the volume of food and alcohol put before him?
 
HUNTER WALK
Stanford, Calif., Nov. 29
 
The writer is working toward an M.B.A. at the Stanford Business School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD BUSINESS SCHOOL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD BUSINESS SCHOOL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; HIRING AND PROMOTION BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



299 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Bubbles and theFed

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re: "Inside the Head of the Fed: Alan Greenspan's Journey to the New World Economy" (Nov. 15): 
 Mr. Greenspan may contend that central bankers cannot do much to bring an overvalued stock market back into line -- that there is no orderly way to deflate an asset bubble. But the very thing the Fed does, smoothing short-term interest rates by setting the Federal funds rate target, does much to create asset bubbles in the market. It greatly reduces the risk for investors who borrow short term to make leveraged bets on stocks and bonds.
If short-term rates fully and immediately responded to inflationary and deflationary events, as these rates should, investors would be much less willing to take the leveraged bets that inflate asset bubbles.
Key to greater financial and economic stability is getting the Fed out of the interest-rate signaling business. The markets can do a much better job of setting short-term rates.
 
BERT ELY
Alexandria, Va., Nov. 18
 
The writer is a financial-institutions and monetary-policy consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); WRITERS (73%); DEFLATION (72%); BONDS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



300 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Capitol Hill Mob

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Forget about the will of the people, the democratic process and the good of the country. The extremists in the Republican Party are trying to bludgeon their way to an impeachment that hardly anybody wants and nobody needs.
If the Government and perhaps even the economy are thrown into a tailspin as a result -- well, so be it. The fanatics of the right are willing to pay any price, bear any burden, to hammer the man they hate above all others, Bill Clinton. 
 I'm no champion of the President, but I know a lynch mob when I see one.
Obsessed with the sins of Mr. Clinton, the right-wingers believe with their idol Barry Goldwater that "moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue." (Mr. Goldwater's views on fooling around in the workplace are, nevertheless, not helpful to his spiritual descendants. Laurence J. Peter, author of "The Peter Principle," quotes the late Senator as follows: "I think any man in business would be foolish to fool around with his secretary. If it's somebody else's secretary, fine!")
Most Americans thought the campaign to impeach Mr. Clinton had been derailed by the Democrats' strong showing in the November elections and Newt Gingrich's decision three days later to relinquish the Speakership and leave Congress. There was a general feeling that if the President hadn't been punished enough, the country certainly had. It was hoped that Monica-all-the-time would give way to Monica-every-now-and-then.
But somebody forgot to tell Tom DeLay. Mr. DeLay is the onetime exterminator from Sugar Land, Tex., who has emerged as the Republicans' chief pro-impeachment fanatic. He's the Republican whip, the man who rounds up the votes in the House. Nothing short of impeachment will satisfy him. He is adamantly opposed to the House even considering a censure resolution.
If you want a sense of how extreme Mr. DeLay can be, consider his approach to the environment. He believes the Environmental Protection Agency is the "Gestapo of the Government." He believes that DDT is A-O.K. Not harmful. He is not bothered by threats to the ozone layer. When the Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded to the discoverers of the link between chlorofluorocarbons and ozone depletion, he mocked the award as the "Nobel Appeasement Prize."
Another piece of work in this bizarre drama is Representative Bob Barr, a Republican from Georgia who has long been recognized as an impeachment fanatic and was widely regarded as a crank. Nevertheless he is on the Judiciary Committee and voted on Friday for impeachment. That same day The Washington Post ran a story in which Mr. Barr acknowledged being a keynote speaker this year at a meeting of the Council of Conservative Citizens, a white supremacist group that is worried blacks will exterminate whites by infiltrating their bedrooms.
Americans may wish to put the sordid Lewinsky saga behind them, but if the G.O.P. fanatics get their way and Mr. Clinton is actually impeached by the House, the very opposite will happen. The issue will become bigger than ever, overwhelming everything else in the Government for months and months to come.
A trial of Mr. Clinton in the Senate, presided over by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, and with star witnesses like Monica Lewinsky and Linda Tripp and Vernon Jordan, will make the O. J. Simpson story look like a warm-up act. It will seem like Monica-forever-and-ever.
Much of the Government would come to a halt. Any semblance of legislative bipartisanship would vanish. There would be no possibility of an agreement on Social Security, no patients' bill of rights, no serious Federal initiatives on education.
"It would poison every relationship," said a Capitol Hill veteran.
Said another: "You'd have to consider the legislative year over."
Wall Street executives fear the stock markets would be adversely affected and the long economic expansion could be undermined.
There is no doubt that Bill Clinton has demeaned the Presidency. There is no defense for his actions or his lies. But the voters have chosen him twice by substantial margins and they stand behind him still. It is not up to the hatchet men of the Republican Party to undo that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS; PERJURY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (86%); NOBEL PRIZES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); WRITERS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); OZONE DEPLETION (64%); CHEMISTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HERBERT, BOB; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



301 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Bosses to Love and to Lean On

 BODY:
Not all bosses have big egos, big mouths and tight fists. Many are softies who will go the extra mile to help an employee, even if there is nothing in it for them. What acts of kindness, or workplace heroism, has your boss performed? Send your best stories to On the Job, Money and Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Or send them by E-mail to onthejob@nytimes.com. Include your telephone number. All submissions become the property of The Times and may be republished in any medium.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



302 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Minister Is Nominated As Secretary of State

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO 

 BODY:
Governor Whitman last week nominated the Rev. Dr. DeForest "Buster" Soaries, a minister who has advised her on urban redevelopment, to be New Jersey's next secretary of state.
Dr. Soaries is pastor of the 5,000-member First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, founder of several non-profit community re-development corporations and host of the television program, "Straight Up With Buster Soaries," on the New Jersey Network. 
 If confirmed by the Senate, Dr. Soaries would replace Carol Cronheim, who has been the acting secretary of state since July, when Lonna R. Hooks resigned. The State Department oversees cultural institutions like the State Museum and the State Library, as well as the Public Defender's office, the Commission on Higher Education and the Office of Administrative Law. KIRSTY SUCATO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (51%); 

PERSON: SUCATO, KIRSTY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); SOARIES, DEFOREST (REV DR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



303 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Rail Plan Splits Scenic Montana Area

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: BIRNEY, Mont.

 BODY:
In the 1970's, a rush for coal shattered the quiet of eastern Montana. As giant shovels gouged the rolling grasslands in search of the mineral, ranch families and communities were torn as well, bitterly at odds over whether to accept the windfall from coal companies and give up parts of their ranches, or to join environmentalists and fight the assault on their way of life.
The price of Western soft coal has plummeted, to $5.90 a ton from $12.50 a ton over the last 16 years, and the controversy has quieted. But a battle over soft coal has surfaced again, this time in the form of a proposed 117-mile, $385 million rail link to haul the coal from south of this tiny town in the heart of one of Montana's most isolated and beautiful areas, the Tongue River Valley, to the main railroad at Mile City. 
 "I've got cold, hard market data that shows if the Tongue River railroad can be completed by 2001, we can double the supply of coal coming from Montana," said Michael Gustafson, president of the concern formed to build the link, the Tongue River Railroad Company.
Mr. Gustafson predicted that the rail line would bring the opening of new strip mines. The state now produces about 28 million tons of coal a year, all of it from this area.
As the Clean Air Act forces Midwestern utilities to use low-sulfur coal, a fuel that burns more cleanly than hard coal, to meet standards that go into effect in 2000, he said, Montana's vast reserves of such coal will grow invaluable.
The rail line would bring startling change to an area where stillness is broken only by cattle lowing or an occasional tractor-trailer hauling livestock. Mr. Gustafson envisions the line being used by as many as 18 trains a day, each with 125 cars -- about a mile long -- filled with coal pulled by two 4,000-horsepower locomotives.
"You can hear it 20 to 30 miles away," said Randy Knutson, chairman of the United Transportation Union in Sheridan, which represents railroad workers. "The horns are piercing. It will be an overwhelming presence."
The union opposes the new rail link because it says some 30 railroad jobs would be lost on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which now serves this area. But the Burlington Northern's link to Mile City is on a 294-mile route, 177 miles longer than that proposed by Mr. Gustafson.
Opponents of the new link say the existing line makes the new one unnecessary. Mr. Gustafson counters that the shorter route would greatly reduce the price of the coal.
The fight against the new railroad has been a long one; the rail link was first proposed in 1986. But despite lawsuits and lobbying by the Northern Plains Resource Council, a coalition of ranchers and environmentalists based in Billings, the Tongue River Railroad may soon be barreling down on this quiet corner.
Last summer some ranchers here were served with papers notifying them that the railroad would begin exercising its right of eminent domain, granted by the Federal and state governments, and would be coming to survey their land. Mr. Gustafson said he hoped to begin construction next spring. Several ranch families vowed to continue their fight in court.
The cost to the Tongue River Valley, ranchers say, will be unbearable. "It's already split the community," said Irv Alderson, a 68-year-old rancher whose spurs jingled softly as he fried up a pan of venison steaks and potatoes. "There's people who don't speak to each other anymore."
Such tension is especially difficult in a place where neighbors depend on each other if they get stuck in the mud, or a grass fire breaks out.
Some think the valley needs the money the railroad construction would bring, because beef prices have dropped. Though the Tongue River Valley is a sprawling chunk of real estate where ranches are measured in sections, or square miles, there are only 56 landowners along the river, with at least 29 of them opposed to the railroad.
The closest town is Birney, which is anywhere from a mile to 15 miles for many families, and it has dwindled to fewer than 50 people. The grocery here closed in the 1980's, and the one-room schoolhouse has just 16 students. The nearest sizable town, Sheridan, Wyo., is an hour-and-a-half ride, when the gravel road is not clogged with mud.
"We've got a lot of people in a world of hurt," said Jay Nance, a rancher north of Birney, who is a member of an economic development committee. He endorsed the railroad, saying: "The world is bigger than my ranch. I would like to see something that will keep my kids around here."
But the valley is also part of the ancestral homeland of the Northern Cheyenne, whose reservation lies just a few miles to the east. They gather plants for medicine and ceremonies here. And the railroad would bisect the site of the battleground of what the Indians call the Battle of Wolf Mountain, the last battle fought by the Sioux and Cheyenne before they surrendered in 1877.
"We still eat deer, still eat pheasants," said Freda Standing Elk, who lives in Birney Village, a small Cheyenne settlement seven miles from Birney. "We still use the hide to make buckskin dresses, to make moccasins." The trains could drive off the game, she said, "and we could lose all that."
Jeanie Alderson, who with her two sisters and father, Irv, is a partner in the Bones Brothers Ranch, which straddles Hanging Woman Creek, says she worries about several things: grass fires started by sparks from trains, weeds that might be carried in to grazing land and the fact that cattle and horses would have to cross high railroad embankments to reach the Tongue River, the only source of water. "I had a fellow call me to tell me what a nightmare it is to have a railroad for a neighbor," she said, looking out at several quarter horses in a corral near her home. "He had 24 show horses killed by a train. He said it was a quarter-million-dollar loss and a year later he hadn't got a dime."
Up the road in a deep canyon carved out by the Tongue River, Bill Musgrave has other concerns. He said he could not sell his ranch because buyers feared the effect of a new railroad. On a walk through one of his pastures he pointed to a series of towering, rugged hills. "They want to obliterate the tops of those hills and use the dirt to fill in between" for the railroad bed, he said, on more than two miles of his land.
"They're letting on like they can mitigate all this but they can't," he said, referring to erosion and other environmental effects.
Mr. Gustafson bristles at the criticism. "I've been cast as a speculator and a promoter," he said. "All kinds of names have been thrown at me. But I'm a creative entrepreneur and I feel strongly I've tried to do it right. I'm frustrated but I've made a concerted effort to work with those people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Montana's Tongue River Valley may seem peaceful, but a proposal to build a $385 million rail link to haul coal from the isolated area has divided residents, some of whom see a bonanza and others see a disaster. (Photographs by Jim Robbins for The New York Times); Irv Alderson and his daughter Jeanie, owners of the Bones Brothers Ranch, are opposed to the railroad link that would bisect their valley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BNI (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; TONGUE RIVER RAILROAD CO BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; TONGUE RIVER RAILROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA; MILE CITY (MONT); BIRNEY (MONT); UNITED STATES (96%); MONTANA, USA (96%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; COAL COAL INDUSTRY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); COAL MINING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); COAL PRICES (78%); TRAINS (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (74%); SURFACE MINING (73%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); LOBBYING (70%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (56%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, JIM MICHAEL GUSTAFSON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



304 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Human Rights Call for Asia

BYLINE: Agence France-Presse 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 12

 BODY:
A Chinese dissident, Wei Jingsheng, led a call by activists meeting here today for human rights to be upheld in Asia despite the region's financial crisis.
Speaking at a conference during events marking the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Mr. Wei also warned the West that even though many Asian nations were moving to free up their markets, "economic development will not in itself provoke a move to democracy." 
 Mr. Wei was deported from China to the United States last year after spending all but six months of the last 18 years in Chinese prisons for calling for democratic reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ANNIVERSARIES (85%); TRENDS (83%); POLITICS (82%); DEPORTATION (52%); 

PERSON: WEI JINGSHENG WEI JINGSHENG (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



305 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Iran Discontent Rises as Oil-Based Economy Falls

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran, Dec. 12

 BODY:
For nearly two months now, the 7,500 workers who punch in every morning at the Iran Tractor Manufacturing Company have found themselves with almost nothing to do.
The assembly line has all but shut, starved of raw materials that the Government can no longer afford to import. Tractor sales have plummeted; most customers are struggling to make ends meet. Only the promise of a paycheck keeps workers showing up, but last month most got just half their $130 wage. 
 Iran's economy is growing sicker by the day. The price of Iranian oil, the export lifeblood, has dipped below $10, a 25-year-low that has forced the Government to slash imports, dig deep into reserves, and postpone payments on foreign debts.
Already, the consequences have been sharp: rising prices, plunging productivity, stagnant economic growth. And in their quest for further remedies, Iranian leaders seem dwarfed by the country's troubles.
"If the Government is not capable of solving the economic problems, the economic problems could ultimately overwhelm the Government," said Rahim Oskui, a prominent private economist.
In political terms, the situation has not yet rebounded against President Mohammad Khatami, who seems almost as popular as when he was elected 19 months ago. But with prices rising, the currency falling and production at factories grinding to a halt, there is clear discontent.
Economists say there are no easy solutions to what Mr. Khatami has called Iran's "chronic illness." And as he and his rivals weigh the hard choices that remain after two decades of economic mismanagement, a widespread sense of urgency has left them increasingly exposed.
As the world's third-ranking oil exporter, behind Saudi Arabia and Norway, Iran possesses a blessing and a curse. Even as its population has soared, more than doubling in the last 20 years, its oil earnings have kept afloat a bloated, centrally controlled economy that enjoys little foreign investment and spends $11 billion a year on subsidies.
But that has also allowed Iranian leaders to shrug off the depth of their dependence on oil, which still accounts for 80 percent of the country's foreign currency earnings. And even as the plunge in prices has caused oil revenues to tumble, from more than $19 billion in 1986 to about $10 billion this year, Iranians still seem to find it hard to accept that big changes might be required.
"We don't have an economic model in Iran, and that is why we lack economic security," said Ramazanpour Nargessi, a member of the conservative-dominated Parliament who is sympathetic to Mr. Khatami.
Indeed, until late most month, even Mr. Khatami, who has coupled his calls for greater political openness in Iran with vaguer calls for economic change, had in fact done virtually nothing to address the country's economic ills. His only real proposals had been stopgap measures to address a crisis that has been partially of his Government's doing.
Mr. Khatami has often acknowledged that Iran's economic problems are considerable. He has said he hopes to encourage foreign investment and to "break the monopolies" held by Government-affiliated foundations, which control as much as 40 percent of the economy.
But he has never spelled out whether or not he hopes to shrink the Iranian Government's role in an economy only about one-fifth of which is in private hands. And he appears torn, Iranian analysts say, between an appreciation for free-enterprise and a commitment to what he calls social justice.
The budget that Mr. Khatami's Government drafted a year ago was based on the assumption that oil prices would average $17.50 a barrel -- a guess so wildly optimistic that even the supportive Iran News has said it "inflicted irreparable harm on our economy."
In the last two weeks, he has zeroed in on the costly, wasteful gasoline subsidies that allow Iranian motorists to fill up for just 12 cents a gallon, a price lower than anywhere else in the world.
But his opponents in the conservative-dominated Parliament have vowed to block Mr. Khatami's proposal, saying that any price increase would be too burdensome for ordinary Iranians to bear. Economists and other experts see the stalemate as a worrying indication that political rivalries could get in the way of any quest to put Iran's economy on a solid long-term footing.
"There may be too much fear and too much inertia," a Western diplomat said of the prospects for fundamental change, "because any tinkering with the system now in place is bound to have social consequence for the population at large."
To many economists, including Fereydoun Barkeshii of the semi-official Institute for International Energy Studies, the gas subsidy is far and away the most onerous example of the distortions that riddle Iran's economy. With it, the price Iranians pay for gasoline is about one-third what it costs the country to produce it.
Even Iran's wealthier neighbors in the Persian Gulf sell gas at a higher price, so a good bit of Iranian gasoline makes its way there, to a tidy smugglers' profit. Iranian refineries cannot meet the outsized demand, so that Iran must import gasoline, at market prices, at a cost of more than $150 million a year.
Oil Minister Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh has said that a cut in subsidies represents "the only way to reduce domestic consumption and decrease imports." But critics led by Ali Abbas-Pour, a conservative member of Parliament, have objected to any price rise on the ground that it would contribute to inflation, already running about 20 percent.
Without such support, the only kinds of emergency measures for which Mr. Khatami has so far won approval include those that are mostly smoke-and-mirrors, like the "forward selling" of more than $1 billion of oil still in the ground.
But Iran is still expected to face major budget deficits, this year and next year, forcing it to turn to a central bank willing to print more money. Its problems have been compounded by its restrictions on most imports, which have left factories without the raw materials they need to generate any significant revenues.
Even so, the country's bill for food and other vital imports and for payments on foreign debt is still expected to exceed the $13 billion in foreign currency revenue that Iran is expected to earn this year from its oil and non-oil exports.
As a result, after dipping heavily into its foreign exchange reserves, Western diplomats say, Iran halted payments in late September of the $5.9 billion it owes this year to Germany, Italy and Japan, part of a debt package that has already been rescheduled once, in 1993. The Government is now negotiating with banks in those countries in hopes of stretching out those payments further, but no one has been able to rule out the prospect that it might have to declare a formal default.
As one way to ease financial pressure, some Iranians inclined toward a freer market have specifically proposed that the Government begin to sell shares in state enterprises to private investors -- a first step toward reversing the nationalization that was a centerpiece of the Islamic revolution.
"Those who have decentralized their economies are heading toward success," said one such advocate, Assadollah Asgaroladi, vice president of Iran's chamber of commerce. But despite his vague comments in the same spirit, Mr. Khatami and others in government have not yet shown any willingness to embrace such a campaign. Any real move toward privatization would require a political challenge to the powerful bounyads, the Government foundations that were set up with holdings confiscated from the Shah and now operate without oversight.
The foundations are controlled by pillars of a conservative establishment opposed to Mr. Khatami. Although they have been the targets of fierce criticism by some of Mr. Khatami's supporters, they are seen by others in Iran as important legacies of the revolution that should not be swept away.
"There's been no sign that Khatami is really ready to make tough economic decisions," a Western diplomat said. "But unless he does, there is a danger that things could get much worse, and that what he has done to make Iran more open could begin to seem less consequential."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iran's oil-dependent economy is weakening by the day, driving up prices. Two women at a store in Teheran looked at appliances imported from the United States that would cost most Iranians several years' salary. (Kaveh Kazemi for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Down the Drain"
The price of oil has plunged, draining Iran's economy. Chart shows statistics for Iran's exports and oil prices. (Sources: American Petroleum Institute; World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

COMPANY: IRAN TRACTOR MANUFACTURING CO (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); POLITICS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES) MOHAMMAD KHATAMI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



306 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Merger Wave Spurs a New Scrutiny

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

 BODY:
With a huge plateful of large and complex corporate mergers to review and a host of major civil enforcement cases against corporate America's biggest names, antitrust officials are experiencing a renaissance.
Federal officials report that they have filed a record number of challenges this year to mergers and other anticompetitive practices and have collected record amounts in civil fines and other penalties. 
 They have stretched some old antitrust theories and applied a few new ones -- such as now routinely requiring every merger examination to include a look at how the proposed deal may affect product innovation and development. Their targets have been a Who's Who among corporate powerhouses and include Microsoft and Intel, Mastercard and Visa, Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman.
"Antitrust is a highly political discipline, and it tends to ebb and flow," said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa College of Law and the author of a leading treatise on the subject. "It's flowing right now."
In part, the renewed vigor is a consequence of two related economic trends: the deregulation of certain industries and the unparalleled wave of business mergers and acquisitions.
In the fiscal year ending on Sept. 30, the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission, the two main agencies that enforce United States antitrust law, examined 4,728 proposed mergers, more than at any other time, and three times as many deals as in 1992.
As a result of the merger-and-acquisition wave, the agencies are now reviewing five of the largest business transactions in American history: the proposed $80 billion acquisition of the Mobil Corporation by Exxon, the $62 billion purchase of Ameritech by SBC Communications, Bell Atlantic's $52 billion acquisition of GTE, AT&T's $32 billion purchase of Tele-Communications Inc. and British Petroleum's $48 billion buyout of Amoco.
However the agencies rule on those deals -- they can seek to have them blocked or modified, or they can simply approve them -- their aggressive view of the law has already made them a central force in setting economic policy in a wide range of industries left untouched by other policy makers.
Stepping into a vacuum created by the deregulation of such industries as airlines and telecommunications, they have restructured or blocked numerous multibillion-dollar mergers and joint-venture agreements that once fell under the purview of other officials. For the first time since the airline industry was deregulated in the late 1970's, they filed a lawsuit two months ago to prevent a big airline merger, one involving Northwest Airlines' acquisition of Continental.
But through such civil suits as the Microsoft case, they are also evolving into the role of overseeing emerging areas of enterprise like the Internet, and through challenges of proposed mergers involving large and small research and development companies, they are playing an important role in arranging the corporate landscape in biotechnology.
Despite these trends, some experts said that the vigorous enforcement was still less aggressive than at other points in history, such as the 1930's and the 1960's, and noted that the new vigor was not a consequence of any significant Supreme Court victories involving the nation's competition laws or any major revisions of the guidelines that are used to scrutinize mergers.
"Interestingly, there have not been any major doctrinal changes," said George L. Priest, a professor of law and economics at Yale University.
"They are using some different theories, and they are trimming some proposed mergers back in order to facilitate them," he added. "But they are also sometimes bringing cases without articulating a clear theory or vision about what they are trying to accomplish."
Joel I. Klein, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, said that antitrust enforcement "reflects a point of historic convergence involving a commitment of deregulation and competition."
"The essential component of that confluence is active antitrust enforcement," he said.
By all accounts, the Clinton Administration's enforcement record is a marked departure from those of Republican predecessors. During the Reagan Administration and to a lesser extent under President George Bush, the antitrust division and the F.T.C. were backwaters that suffered from severe staff cutbacks. Particularly under Mr. Reagan, they followed a laissez-faire philosophy that found little value in broad enforcement of antitrust law.
"Their attitude was that everything was self-correcting," said Robert Pitofsky, an antitrust professor and former dean at Georgetown Law School, who is now the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. "But as time has gone on, we've seen how wrong that was."
The two agencies continue to suffer from staff shortages, having never recovered from the cutbacks in the 80's. Because of the large number of mergers, they have been forced to undertake a kind of regulatory triage, delaying and thinly staffing civil enforcement inquiries in order to complete merger reviews under the deadlines set by Congress.
Nonetheless, the agencies are doing things that have not been done in a long time, if at all, using novel legal theories and stretching more conventional ones.
For instance, recognizing that research in many emerging industries is ultimately more important than the products they may make, the officials have ordered the redrawing of mergers of companies that are in nascent research-and-development stages, years away from production.
In a case involving the merger of the Swiss-based drug giants Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz, the Federal Trade Commission required the sale of patents and technological know-how involving their pioneering research in gene therapy for various diseases, even though the companies did not expect to bring any such products to market for years.
With greater frequency, they have also taken a more concentrated look at the effect of a merger on new companies rather than the older, more conventional analysis that looks at whether a merger has a likelihood of promoting collusion and oligopolies in a wide range of industries from retailing to military contracting.
This "theory of unilateral effects" was first articulated by an economist in 1929. But it was never widely used by regulators because it was thought to be too difficult to gather market data.
With technological advances, such as the use of price scanners in stores and the proliferation of powerful personal computers, it has become easier to manipulate data and apply the theory.
The result, according to Mr. Hovenkamp, "is more aggressive enforcement."
They are also been challenging mergers involving so-called vertical integration -- when a supplier buys a manufacturer or a manufacturer buys a wholesaler.
At the Federal Trade Commission, officials restructured four important mergers in the last year either in whole or in part because of questions of improper vertical integration. One such case involved the $10 billion purchase of the Energy Group P.L.C. of Britain, which produced about 15 percent of the coal in the United States, by Pacificorp, a leading Western utility. (Pacificorp itself agreed this week to be acquired by Scottish Power P.L.C. for nearly $13 billion in equity and debt.)
Antitrust officials required the divestiture of certain coal mines that would have enabled the new combination to raise a rival's generating costs, and as a result, the wholesale price of electricity in the West.
In another case, the officials forced TRW Inc. to sell a Pentagon engineering business as a condition of its $975 million purchase of BDM International to satisfy concerns that the deal would not put TRW in a position to favor itself as a competitor for ballistics missile contracts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Deals, Busier Investigators"
The number of mergers and acquisitions has been rising sharply through the 1990's. As the number of merger filings has increased, and their value has soared, so have the number of antitrust investigations. Chart shows statistics on mergers, and antitrust investigations since 1994.
(Source: Department of Justice, Federal Trade Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); V (NYSE) (70%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); LMT (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (56%); BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION AT&T INC (84%); VISA INC (70%); MOBIL CORP (66%); INTEL CORP (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%); BP PLC (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; FINES (PENALTIES) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); MERGERS (92%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORY (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TRENDS (72%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (71%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN JOHN MAJOR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



307 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Farmers Are in Crisis As Hog Prices Collapse

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa, Dec. 8

 BODY:
It is just after 7 A.M., and Rex Hoppes is shuttling a herd of squealing pigs out of a long gooseneck trailer and onto the loading dock at a bustling meat-packing plant here.
On this cool wintry morning, Mr. Hoppes, a 34-year-old fifth-generation farmer, has just driven an hour and a half northeast of his farm near Des Moines to bring 22 plump hogs to the market. But as he watches a steady stream of giant 18-wheelers pull in to unload thousands of additional hogs, he begins to sour. The price he will get for his hogs is about as welcome as the frost that has painted the fields a snowy white. 
 "In my wildest dreams, I wouldn't have believed we could have gone this low," Mr. Hoppes said. "This is the lowest I've ever sold hogs, and I hope I never see these levels again."
A year ago, Mr. Hoppes was selling pigs or hogs -- the terms are used interchangeably in the industry -- for $46 every hundred pounds, or about $118 for a 250-pound hog; the price this morning: $17 every hundred pounds or $45 a pig.
Not since 1971 has the market for hogs slipped so low, and economists say that with inflation factored in, hog prices stand at their lowest level since the Depression.
The causes of the crisis are simple, and yet devastating to thousands of people who have staked their lives on hogs. After years of spectacular growth and soaring demand for pork products around the globe, the nation's hog farms -- many of which are now huge corporate operations -- produced the equivalent of a bumper crop of pigs, a supply so huge and unwieldy that slaughterhouses this fall are overflowing.
As a result, meat packers are no longer bidding up the prices of hogs, and farmers -- who have plowed great sums into new hog operations -- are facing devastating losses and the prospect of financial ruin.
"This is the most stressful time for a hog producer that I have ever seen, and I have been on the scene for 50 years," said Glenn Grimes, an emeritus professor of agricultural economics at the University of Missouri at Columbia. "This is going to break an awful lot of farmers."
Though the economy in this part of the country remains strong, with unemployment at just 2.6 percent in Iowa, farmers throughout the Midwest are beset with problems. Slowing demand from Asia and large stores of grain have sent corn and soybean prices down 20 percent from a year ago. Meanwhile, the sense of crisis in the hog industry -- a powerful engine of the nation's farm economy -- is so sharp that the National Pork Producers Council has asked meat packers to further stretch their capacity, and the National Farmers Union has petitioned Congress to hold hearings to "investigate the devastating plunge in hog prices."
Here in Iowa -- where swine are king and where the state elects a "pork queen" each winter -- farmers are beginning to talk of shooting pigs that are too costly to feed and too undervalued to sell.
Around here hogs were once known as "mortgage lifters," and it was almost a cliche to hear farmers call hog stink the "smell of money." But the nation's leading hog state, where more than $12 billion a year in revenues and 94,000 jobs are at stake, is making a reassessment.
Many people in the hog industry are wondering whether smaller farms are doomed. Government officials are rushing to the aid of farmers. The newly elected Secretary of Agriculture in Iowa is commissioning a blue-ribbon panel; the State Attorney General is conducting an investigation into whether hog farmers are being cheated, and outgoing Gov. Terry E. Branstad is honking the horn for Federal assistance.
"In the early 60's I was raising and selling hogs for the prices they are right now," Governor Branstad said in an interview. "It's pretty bleak. I bought a Ford convertible in 1963 for $1,725, so you can see what happened to automobiles and what happened to hog prices. I'd like to see pork go to the Food for Peace program."
The steep decline in hog prices has not yet reached the nation's consumers, who continue to pay an average of about $2.20 a pound for pork, about the same as a year ago, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. Indeed, economists say that the spread between the price hog farmers get when they sell to meat packers and the price of pork at the supermarket counter is at or near a historic high. A pig that garners $45 for Mr. Hoppes yields as much as $331 worth of pork at the supermarket, economists say.
That is because retailers are reluctant to slash prices (partly out of fear that a future increase might be more disturbing to consumers). But they are offering more discounts.
"We're moving product," said Paul Bernish, a spokesman at Kroger Company, one of the nation's largest supermarket chains. "But if your question is why haven't our prices come down, that doesn't generally happen. They don't go up when hog prices are up and go down when hog prices are down."
Farmers who are losing $50 to $75 for every pig are not pleased about the enormous profit imbalance. Nor are they optimistic about the future.
"I've farmed for 20-something years," said Craig Hill, a tall, lean middle-aged farmer in Sandyville, Iowa, who sent 230 hogs to the market this morning at a loss of more than $14,000. "I've had droughts, I've had interest rates at 18 percent, I've had all sorts of calamities. But these prices make me wonder whether I can stay in this business."
There is a sense among some farmers that something bigger is amiss; the National Farmers Union thinks that the advent of large corporate hog farms is squeezing smaller pig farmers out, and many find it disturbing that meat packers and retailers are ringing up huge profits while producers face collapse.
Hog production is up a record 10 percent this year, and since late October, more than two million hogs a week have entered the nation's slaughterhouses. And with plants at or near capacity, meat packers no longer have to bid up prices.
To deal with the overflow, meat packers are lengthening their hours. But expanding operations means hiring and training new workers in one of the tightest job markets in decades. And packers have just so much cold storage in an industry whose motto has long been "sell it or smell it."
"We're already operating as close to 100 percent as possible," said Gary Mickelson, a spokesman at IBP Inc. in Dakota City, Neb., one of the nation's largest packing plant operators. "And yes, there's no question we're making money. But ultimately, it's the law of supply and demand. Pork processing margins in '96 and '97 were poor and that forced packers to close plants."
And so farmers, who must sell their hogs about six months after weaning or risk producing a flabbier, less desirable hog, have little choice but to sell at a loss.
"Producers have an unstorable commodity and therefore no bargaining power," Steve Meyer, an economist at the National Pork Producers Council in Des Moines, said over lunch as he and two colleagues washed down pork tenderloin and a grilled pork loin sandwich. "Right now, all the power's with the buyers."
Those within the industry, however, concede that they simply overproduced. Huge investments in new facilities, temperature-controlled rooms and sophisticated breeding techniques created a boom in the number of pigs produced and sent to market. The system has worked so well that even though the number of hog operators has steadily declined, to 138,000 today from three million in the 1950's, the industry will produce a record 19 billions pounds of pork this year.
Now, there is talk about liquidations. But Mr. Meyer at the pork council says that "cutbacks now won't show up until the fourth quarter of '99."
As for Mr. Hoppes, who has pulled $40,000 out of a retirement account to keep going, prospects are gloomy. Hog farming has been a lifelong dream; he began showing hogs at the county fair as a 9-year-old. But pulling out of the packing plant in Marshalltown, the boyish, blond Mr. Hoppes says that when he is thinking about his wife, Joyce, and his two boys, 4-year-old Reid and 2-year-old Grant, one question keeps playing in his mind: "Why am I sticking my neck out so far for this dying dream?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rex Hoppes feeding his pigs on his 160-acre farm near Indianola, Iowa. The near-collapse of the market for hogs -- his pigs now sell for far less than they did last year -- has forced him to take money out of a retirement account and has led him to question his lifelong dream of being a hog farmer. (Rodney White for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FARMERS UNION MUTUAL INSURANCE SOCIETY LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PIGS; MEAT; FARMERS; FINANCES AGRICULTURAL PRICES (93%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (92%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); PORK (89%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (78%); MEATS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); CORN MARKETS (71%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID REX HOPPES (83%); TERRY E BRANSTAD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



308 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Tells Of Aid Plan For Farmers In Bad Straits

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

 BODY:
Farmers still reeling from a year of floods and crop disease will soon get $2.4 billion in emergency aid, President Clinton announced today, saying America "can't afford to let them fail."
Mr. Clinton used his weekly radio address to give details of how the aid, which was included in a $7 billion farm aid package passed by Congress, will be disbursed. Nearly $3 billion in aid for farmers hurt by low grain prices has already been distributed. About $400 million of the package will be used to provide incentives for farmers to buy higher levels of crop insurance, giving them a discount of up to 35 percent when they expand coverage. 
 "Far too many farmers don't have crop insurance at all, or only buy the bare minimum -- not enough to withstand a really devastating year," Mr. Clinton said in his speech, taped on Friday.
The remaining $2 billion will go to farmers with losses from such causes as floods and crop disease.
"America's farmers are the backbone of our economy and the lifeblood of our land," the President said. "We can't afford to let them fail."
The aid package passed by Congress will help farmers survive "this year's one-two punch from Mother Nature and the marketplace," Mr. Clinton said.
Applications for the money will be accepted in two months and no farmer will receive more than $80,000 in aid or more than $80,000 in crop insurance incentive.
Farmers are eligible for either single-year losses for the 1998 year or multiyear losses for any three or more years between 1994 and 1998.
All crops, whether insured and uninsured, are eligible for the single-year payments. The multiyear provisions, however, cover only crops.
For farmers with losses in 1998 only, compensation for insured crops will be a rate of 65 percent of the crop insurance market price. Farmers with losses of uninsured crops will be compensated at a 60 percent rate and must agree to buy crop insurance for the 1999 and 2000 crop years.
Farmers with losses of noninsurable crops will be compensated at 65 percent of the five-year average price computed by the National Agricultural Statistics Service.
Under the multiyear provisions, the Agriculture Department will compensate insured farmers with an extra payment of 25 percent of the insurance claim payments made during that period. Farmers with noninsurable crops will also get an extra payment of 25 percent of what their Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program payments were or would have been.
By pushing crop insurance, Mr. Clinton is getting a head start on an issue that the Administration has said it plans to make a priority next year. Republicans and Democrats agree that the crop insurance program needs overhauling.
Republicans, however, envision crop insurance as a replacement for disaster assistance. Democrats have said they will also continue to push for restoration of price supports for farmers, which were phased out as part of the 1996 farm bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; WEATHER; FLOODS; INSURANCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); CROP DISEASE (90%); CROP INSURANCE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CROP PRODUCTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (79%); AGRICULTURE (79%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (79%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); INSURANCE (75%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (70%); STATISTICS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



309 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 54; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Trash Plan Is Praised, But Faces Opposition

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
As New York City moves to close the giant Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, it is becoming a truism that nobody wants the city's garbage. The point is underlined by fierce opposition in New Jersey and Brooklyn to giant transfer stations proposed in those locales by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
But what if the garbage came with a promise of no odor, no rats and no spills? Furthermore, what if people living near the station were promised acres of parkland, a new business complex dedicated to recycling industries that might employ 400 workers, and millions of dollars each year for 20 years to use for schools, roads or other civic projects? 
 That is the plan being pushed by a developer who has helped finance $3 billion worth of solid-waste transfer stations, incinerators and other related projects and an environmentalist who formerly worked as the City Sanitation Department's chief of composting. They teamed up to propose that a large portion of the city's residential garbage move through an ultra-modern transfer station to be built at an abandoned industrial site on the northwest corner of Staten Island, about five miles north of the Fresh Kills landfill.
But after 50 years of living with Fresh Kills, Staten Island residents want no more of anybody else's garbage, even if it is just the passing-through sort. The Mayor rejected the Staten Island transfer station and seven other ideas two weeks ago in favor of three locations he proposed -- two in New Jersey and one in Brooklyn
"We're dead," said Stephen Lynch, the would-be financier of the Staten Island station.
Perhaps not completely. Mr. Lynch and his partner, Thomas Outerbridge, the compost expert, are quietly continuing to push their plan as an alternative if opposition dooms any of the proposed Brooklyn or New Jersey sites. Gov. Whitman of New Jersey adamantly opposed New York City's exporting garbage to transfer stations in her state when Mr. Giuliani proposed that idea.
The developers are playing an intricate endgame, based on the notion that the city will become increasingly desperate as the Dec. 31, 2001, deadline set by New York State for closing the landfill approaches.
"We basically know we have to ride through an extended period of time at the bottom of the pile," said Mr. Outerbridge, whose Staten Island roots go back to his great grandfather, for whom the Outerbridge Crossing, one of the island's three bridges to New Jersey, is named. "That's the nature of our site."
As the barrage of legal and political opposition demonstrates, the city's plan to export trash does indeed seem far from settled. Last week, a group of 16 environmental, consumer and neighborhood groups wrote Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota asking for a meeting to question virtually every aspect of the policy. The letter said unraveling a skein of complex issues "is essential if the city's Fresh Kills closure program is not to run into a series of dead ends."
And so many companies are suggesting new ideas that Mr. Lhota recently said the city may ask for another round of proposals. Other companies that were at first rejected, encouraged by a a statement by the Mayor that their bids might later be re-examined, have not given up.
"We're not out of the picture," said Ron Klempner, executive vice president of American Marine Rail L.L.C., which had its bid for a transfer station in the Bronx rejected.
Although Mr. Lynch is not as optimistic as other developers, at Friday's meeting of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce, he and Mr. Outerbridge politely pressed their campaign to convert a vacated Procter & Gamble factory that once made Ivory Soap into what they described as a safe and secure garbage transfer station. Like the other proposed stations, it would accept barges in a tightly enclosed building, compact the garbage they brought, pack it in airtight containers and ship it out by rail within 24 hours.
As they have at Rotary and Kiwanis Club meetings and before community boards for more than a year, the principals of the Port Ivory Recycling & Transfer Alliance said that geographic logic argues in their favor. Their site is one of the biggest patches of available industrially zoned land in the city; it is a half-mile from any houses, and barges would pass much less of the Staten Island and New Jersey shores than they do on their way to Fresh Kills. The land also has access to rail lines to New Jersey. Almost every major waste company looked at the site, according to Bill Hettler, a real estate agent helping Procter & Gamble to sell it.
The other companies rejected it because of Borough President Guy V. Molinari's opposition to any other borough's garbage ever again coming to Staten Island, according to Mr. Outerbridge. But the Port Ivory backers are betting on a positive response to their promise to heap environmental benefits on Staten Islanders: 25 acres of restored parkland that would include a wildlife habitat, 50 acres of land for recycling industries and financial support for a community environmental fund or other civic projects.
Port Ivory has been endorsed by such national environmental groups as the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Environmental Defense Fund, and the Trust for Public Land. The Tri-State Transportation Campaign, an advocacy group supporting more rational transportation planning, backs it. On Staten Island, it has drawn support from the Sweet Bay Magnolia Biological Reserve Conservancy, an environmental group, and the Staten Island Building and Construction Trades Council.
"It's a very much enlightened proposal," said Mark Muscaro, executive vice president of the builders' group.
But the questions at the Chamber of Commerce meeting suggested that it will face continued opposition. Some questioners asked about economic benefits and jobs, but more asked about rats and odors. What if the railroad bridge collapsed and the garbage backed up at the transfer station. What would happen to the barges in bad weather?
Afterward, Patricia Marceante, a public-relations executive, approached Mr. Lynch. "I was impressed by your presentation," she said, but added that she opposed anything like it. "I don't care how foolproof it is. Nothing in life is foolproof. I don't want any more garbage on Staten Island."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An area near the former Procter & Gamble factory on the northwest coast of Staten Island has been proposed as a site for a garbage-transfer station.; A proposed transfer station in Port Ivory, Staten Island. Trash would come in by barge and leave by rail. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: FRESH KILLS (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORT IVORY (STATEN ISLAND); NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; RATS; ODORS LANDFILLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); 

PERSON: LYNCH, STEPHEN; OUTERBRIDGE, THOMAS; MARTIN, DOUGLAS STEPHEN F LYNCH (67%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



310 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Donald Royal's New Struggle

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS 

 BODY:
Donald Royal would pull out of his driveway on a glorious day and find himself winding through the golf courses that brush stroke the fringes of Orlando, Fla.
Fresh-cut grass was everywhere. Normally, Royal would have inhaled the scent. But now he knew the slightest sniff would cause his 6-foot-8-inch frame to recoil in nausea. So he would press on in his 15-mile drive with the windows rolled up and his choices in front of him. 
 What route would he take this time: Interstate or back roads? No matter how often he varied the trip to disrupt the tedium, the journey he has taken five times each of the last six months would lead him to the parking lot of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. He knew that the moment he walked through the door it would hit him, this foul odor that only people like himself could detect. Only people going through chemotherapy.
"It's the worst smell you can ever imagine," Royal said in an interview on Wednesday, two days before his last chemotherapy treatment. "It's weird, but no one else would notice but us."
Inside the clinic, Royal would take his seat in the waiting room with other patients. He would nod politely to the familiar faces. But mostly, he would think. Yet his thoughts did not move to questions like these: Why him? Why was he here? How did this happen? How could a fearless, slash-to-the-basket forward in the National Basketball Association end up with a diagnosis of colon cancer at age 32 on a summer day in June, just one month after he was springing off the bench for the Charlotte Hornets in the playoffs?
"You know what I think about?" he said. "The people around me.
"Once I went to the center and did the chemo and saw people dealing with the same thing," Royal said in a voice that was weary but steady, "I realized that I should be thankful for the fact that my situation is curable. At times, you're sitting next to people who are desperate, people on their last hope. They're getting chemo and radiation at the same time. And it's kids. You see them losing their hair and with skin that has turned green from the treatment. It hurts your heart. I know my situation, as tough as it is, theirs is twice as bad. All anyone in that room is doing is trying to survive."
For Royal, the word survival has a tangible meaning. On July 1, at the same time the N.B.A. began its lockout, a catheter was being surgically planted in Royal's chest for his first 15-minute treatment -- it's called a "push" -- of chemotherapy. While other players began to talk of "fighting for our livelihood" and "struggling for survival," Royal was losing 20 pounds from his customary 218 because of nausea and fatigue that made him too tired to eat. As owners argued that they needed a new basic agreement with the players to guarantee the economic health of their franchises, Royal was popping Jolly Ranchers to cover the metallic taste that coated his mouth because of the chemotherapy.
"People ask me, 'What's going on in the league?' " said Royal, who was a player representative for the Orlando Magic when the last collective bargaining agreement was signed, in 1995. "I get calls from people and hear what's going on. But I don't concern myself with it like I did in the past. I don't need the extra stress. There are other things to focus on. My priorities are very different now. One thing you gain is perspective. I'm just so grateful for what I have."
Perhaps it is magnified now, but Royal has never lacked gratitude. He did not barge into the N.B.A. as a hot draft choice with a shoe deal. He was a Notre Dame graduate with a political science degree. As the Cavaliers' unheralded third-round draft choice in 1987, Royal was viewed as a quick but limited player saddled with a hard-boiled jumper. He was released in the preseason.
It was either give up and settle into a secure office job or labor in the lunch-pail atmosphere of the Continental Basketball Association. He chose the latter, which meant spending three years eating Thanksgiving meals in restaurants like Denny's.
By 1990, he was playing in Israel. Not long after his arrival, Royal was in a Tel Aviv mall when a woman placed a bag next to him. It was ticking. Royal did not notice at first, but then people started scattering and a man pulled on him and told him to run. As he dashed from the mall, the bomb went off. And yet, that narrow escape was nearly trumped by another. Twenty-four hours before Iraq launched its first Scud missile at Israel during the Persian Gulf War, Royal had boarded the last flight out of the country.
"I've been in some tight situations, I guess," Royal said. "A lot has happened, hasn't it?"
Yes, it has. Eventually, this affable hard worker got his chance. After stops in Minnesota and San Antonio sandwiched around his time in Israel, he went from role player to starter with the Magic in 1993 and landed a two-year, $2 million contract. It was solid money for a solid player, and he was thankful for it.
As a protector for the league's middle-tier player, he became a participant in the collective bargaining negotiations that led to the 1995 agreement. But his demeanor was in stark contrast to the recent chest-thumping rhetoric that has been on display during the labor dispute.
"Donald was a calm voice," the former union president Buck Williams said. "He was soft-spoken and really cared about the guys he represented, guys that were role players. At the right time, he'd say just the right thing."
Royal is level-headed and cool by nature. Bombs could not rattle him. But cancer did. In a scenario hauntingly similar to that of the Yankees' Darryl Strawberry, Royal discovered he had colon cancer just in time to give himself a chance. In February, shortly after he was waived by the Heat and signed by the Hornets, he began to notice blood in his stool. It was sporadic, and Royal shrugged it off. By the end of the season, the sight of blood grew more frequent and abdominal pains started to bother him. But the playoffs were on and this was no time to get sick.
"I thought if I just avoided it, it would go away," Royal said. "No man wants to go and get his colon checked out."
After the season, he pushed aside the stigma and dropped into a family clinic one day in mid-June. In one surreal week, he learned he had an orange-sized tumor that was malignant. After surgery to remove the tumor on June 24, doctors discovered cancer in one of the 17 lymph nodes taken from the area. His shock was quickly replaced by tears and horror.
"I'm thinking, 'I got it too late,' " Royal said. " 'Oh no, I got it too late.' "
But doctors assured him that he had hope. With chemotherapy, there was a good chance of survival. Royal was aware of the side-effects, but nothing could prepare him for chemotherapy. Not only are there physical ravages, but the weakening of the immune system leads to physical isolation. Going out can be unhealthy. Anyone with a sniffle is off-limits.
It has helped to have family around the house, like his wife Robin his daughter Shauntel and his mother. When everything else makes him queasy, Royal can still find room for a hot helping of his mother's red beans and rice. When he is cooped up in his house, phone calls form a bridge to the outside world. One call came from Eric Davis, the former Baltimore Oriole who recovered from colon cancer to play baseball again.
"When we first talked, I just wanted to pump him up, almost like a pep talk when you're up by 1 point with 30 seconds on the clock," said Digger Phelps, who coached Royal at Notre Dame. "You tell them, 'Hold on and you're going to win.' I knew he had to go through this whole horrible process. I just wanted him to know he was going to get through this.
"The thing with Donald, he knows how to fight. There's a silent force inside him that's very powerful. I think sometimes if you put yourself in the right mental state you can beat anything."
On Friday, Royal completed his last chemotherapy treatment. After six months, it is finally over. "I made it through," he said. While he is optimistic about his future -- he would like to play two more years -- he will be monitored for the rest of his life.
"I don't know about the league," Royal said with a half-laugh. "But I know I'll be fine."
Years may pass before he truly knows if he has beaten cancer. But for now, Royal can take comfort in knowing that his taste buds and his sense of smell will return in the coming weeks. Fresh-cut grass can be appreciated again. Soon, he will feel like his old self, lively and energetic. The weight room awaits. Soon, the scent that rudely greeted him at the door of the cancer center will fade from his memory. And yet, he will never forget the people he sat with in the waiting room.
"I've seen what chemotherapy does to people," Royal said. "In that room, there are all races and creeds, elderly and young. There are kids in there on a drip, which is an IV. They are in there for three hours. I was 15 minutes and out. The chemo I went through was minor in comparison. You see the desperation around you, and you know you're the lucky one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Royal was known for his calm demeanor with the Orlando Magic, but he acknowledges that colon cancer has left him rattled. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ORLANDO MAGIC M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (56%); ORLANDO MAGIC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC ORLANDO MAGIC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; CANCER; CHEMOTHERAPY; COLON GOLF (90%); CANCER (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); COLORECTAL CANCER (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HAIR LOSS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); 

PERSON: ROYAL, DONALD; ROBERTS, SELENA MICHAEL MCMAHON (63%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



311 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT;
Excerpts From Discussion Of Resolution on Censure

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the House Judiciary Committee's debate today on a joint resolution offered by Democratic Representatives to censure President Clinton, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription service:
 
RICK BOUCHER (D) Any process in this committee or on the floor that makes a censure alternative unavailable to the members would be rejected by the public as unbalanced, partisan and unfair. You have wisely chosen, Chairman Hyde, to make the censure alternative in order. And without regard to the success of censure in this committee, I'm confident that the same sense of evenhandedness, balance and fair play that led you, Chairman Hyde, to make the censure debate in order here will also be employed by the leadership of the House, so that the censure alternative will be available to the full House membership next week. . . . 
 The framers of the Constitution intended that the impeachment power be used only when the nation is seriously threatened. In the words of our predecessors on this committee, in their 1974 Watergate inquiry report, it only to be used for the removal from office of a chief executive whose conduct is seriously incompatible with either the constitutional form and principles of our Government or the proper performance of the constitutional duties of the Presidential office.
The facts that are now before this committee, which arise from a personal relationship and the effort to conceal it, simply do not rise to that high constitutional standard. While the President's conduct was reprehensible, it did not threaten the nation. It did not undermine the constitutional form and principles of our Government. It did not disable the proper performance of the constitutional duties of the Presidential office. It does not rise to the standard of impeachment set by this committee on a bipartisan basis in 1974.
But the acts were reprehensible. The President made false statements about his relationship with a subordinate. He wrongfully took steps to delay the discovery of the truth. He has diminished his personal dignity and that of the office of the Presidency. He has brought the Presidency into disrepute and impaired the image of the President as a role model for younger Americans.
I have a deep disdain for the President's actions. He deserves the admonishment and the censure and the rebuke of the Congress. And in adopting this resolution of censure, we will give voice to the widely held public view that the President should not be removed from office but that he should be admonished by the Congress for his conduct.
Not only is this the public's preference, but it is the right thing to do. Some on the majority side of this committee say that the only way to honor the rule of law and the revered American principle that no individual, including the President, is above the law is to impeach and remove the President from office. Impeachment, however, was never designed as a punishment for the misconduct of the individual; it was designed to protect the nation. The President can be indicted, tried and punished in the criminal courts, just as any other citizen, for any conduct that he has committed while holding the Presidency that is found to be of a criminal nature. That's how his punishment can occur. His susceptibility to the criminal justice process means that the rule of law and the principle that no person, including the President, is above the law will be well served.
Censure is preferable to impeachment for yet another reason. The passage by the House of articles of impeachment will visit serious consequences upon the nation. The mere fact that the House of Representatives votes for articles of impeachment will be felt by this country, and harm will occur. The divisions that now exist in our society will harden and deepen. A rift and a divide will occur. There will be a polarization.
The President and the Congress will be diverted from the nation's urgent national agenda while a prolonged trial takes place in the Senate. The Supreme Court will be immobilized all during that time as the Chief Justice presides during the Senate trial. There will be a lowering of the standard for future Presidential impeachments, with a consequent and inherent weakening of the Presidential office. There will probably be turmoil in the financial markets, with adverse effects for the nation's economy.
These harms are not necessary. The Senate will not convict. It's universally acknowledged that the two-thirds vote required for a conviction cannot be achieved in the Senate. So we can avoid this damage to the nation. We can bring closure to the process this month, and we can begin the process of healing this nation by adopting this resolution of censure here and having it adopted on the floor of the House.
HENRY J. HYDE (R) The Constitution contains a single procedure for Congress to address the fitness for office of the President of the United States -- impeachment by the House and subsequent trial by the Senate. Article II of the Constitution also specifies the necessary consequence of conviction in an impeachment case. "The President, the Vice President and all civil officers shall be removed from office on impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanors."
Article I states that judgment in cases of impeachment will not extend further than removal from office and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, profit or trust under the United States. This provision, however, does not authorize Congress to impose legislative punishments short of removal. Read together, the impeachment clauses require removal upon conviction but allow the Senate, at its discretion, to impose a single additional penalty -- disqualification from future office.
The framers' decision to confine legislative sanctioning of executive officials to removal upon impeachment was carefully considered. By forcing the House and Senate to act as a tribunal and a trial jury rather than merely as a legislative body, they infuse the process with notions of due process. The requirement of removal upon conviction accentuates the magnitude of the procedure, encouraging serious deliberation among members of Congress.
Most importantly, by refusing to include any consequences less serious than removal as outcomes of the impeachment process, the framers made impeachment into such an awesome power that Congress could not use it to harass executive officials or otherwise interfere with operations of coordinate branches. . . .
I believe that for the President or any other civil officer this kind of shaming punishment by the legislature is precluded, since the impeachment provisions permit Congress only to remove an officer of another branch of Government and disqualify him from office. Such an extra-constitutional censure would undermine the separation of powers by assuming a power not enumerated in the Constitution. I still believe we are a Constitution of enumerated powers, which limits the actions of the Federal Government. Pursuing the course that the House has embarked on, pursuant to House Resolution 581, the committee has adopted articles of impeachment against President William Jefferson Clinton, and I believe it's tremendously important to let the House work its will on the work product of this committee, pursuant to the House's command. To do anything else would be to look the other way instead of confronting our collective responsibility under the Constitution. . . .
Now Mr. Frank yesterday made a very good statement. He talked about censure is not nothing, it is substantial. I think it depends on the person who is censured. I think it means something to a person of some sensitivity. I think it has historical meaning. I don't say it's a nullity or nothing at all.
But it also -- the only time that I am aware of it having any efficacy was against Andrew Jackson. And it is now a bare footnote in Mr. Schlesinger's book "The Age of Jackson" and was revoked the next year by another Congress.
But it's similar to yelling at a teen-ager. I mean, it purges you of some emotional feelings, but I don't know what it really accomplishes.
And I'm concerned that once established, we would see a stream of censures against succeeding Presidents for policy decisions and what have you. The Constitution doesn't require us to fill in the blanks. There are no blanks. And what do we censure him for? As I read this, it is getting into sexual misconduct, and that's none of Congress' business. I insist it is none of Congress' business. Those are private, and ought to be left alone. And the resolution does not adequately address the serious questions of perjury and lying under oath, which are the gravamen, to this member, of the impeachment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISMISSALS (74%); ETHICS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (73%); RICK BOUCHER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



312 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-27
 
On Eve of Clinton's Visit Palestinians Move Ahead
President Clinton's plan to visit Gaza on Monday during a trip to the Middle East has raised hopes and increased a feeling of legitimacy for Palestinians as they continue their struggle to attain statehood. But many of those involved in building the Palestinian state remain frustrated over Yasir Arafat's viselike grip on power. 1 

Iran's Economic Woes
Iran's economy is suffering as the price of Iranian oil has dipped below $10, a 25-year-low that has forced the Government to slash imports, dig deep into reserves and postpone payments on foreign debts. Although President Mohommad Khatami's popularity remains high, a widespread sense of urgency over the economy has left both him and his political rivals increasingly exposed to criticism. 3
 
Mexico Agrees on Bailout
The Mexican Government and a major opposition party, after nine months of bitter debate, have reached full agreement on reorganizing a $61 billion bank bailout that had become an example to taxpayers of spectacular corruption. 17
 
Europe Delays Budget Change
Leaders of the 15 European Union countries put off until next year decisions on changing budget and decision-making procedures to prepare for the admission of formerly Communist nations. 27
 
Russia Rescues U.N. Official
Russian commandos rescued a French United Nations official who had been held for more than 10 months in North Ossetia, killing three kidnappers in the raid. 24
 
NATIONAL 29-46
 
Clinton on Peace Mission But Impeachment Goes On
President Clinton donned his peacemaker's cloak and flew to the Middle East, leaving behind a capital in wintry disarray, gripped by a pervasive sense of sadness, of once-shining hopes thwarted, with more grievous divisions than ever between the two parties and legislative business stalled. 1
 
Paul Janos, a candidate for Mayor in Tarrytown, N.Y., a village of 11,000 people north of New York City, found the impeachment hearings surprisingly familiar. He, too, has stood square in the middle of squabbles between Republicans and Democrats, not over a sex scandal, but the more mundane questions of how to develop the waterfront. 1
 
The Judiciary Committee eased into its final day with a sense of political hangover, a somber wistfulness at having irrevocably done the deed. 1
 
A touch of dignity and a heavy dose of uncertainty surround the capital, as what seems to be the only city in America that takes impeachment seriously looks toward a House vote on articles calling for President Clinton to be removed from office. 1
 
The dwindling number of members of Congress who remain undecided about impeachment have different views on what President Clinton can still say or do to keep them from voting to impeach him. But what they all agree on is that whatever they need, they have not heard it yet. 44
 
Challenges to Mergers
With a huge plateful of large and complex corporate mergers to review and a host of major civil enforcement cases against corporate America's biggest names, antitrust officials are experiencing a renaissance. 38
 
NEW YORK/REGION 49-64
 
An Immoderate Congressman Becomes a Voice of Moderation
Representative Peter T. King is not prone to moderation, at least not in the thrust and parry of politics, which he fondly calls "a contact sport." But Mr. King has become a familiar face on television arguing against his Republican leaders on the issue of the impeachment of President Clinton. 49
 
Vacco Effort Angers Voters
A check of New York City voters challenged by Attorney General Dennis Vacco in his latest effort to overturn his apparent defeat in the November election found nearly all at home, living at or near the addresses on their voting records and many furious with Mr. Vacco and his tactics. The findings suggest serious methodological flaws in Mr. Vacco's challenges, which will be taken up in state court tomorrow. 49
 
NEEDIEST CASES 52
 
OBITUARIES 66-67
 
Chess 64
 
Weather 64

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MAYORS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); BANK FAILURES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); SCANDALS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (65%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



313 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hardens Stance on Yugoslav Leader

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12

 BODY:
The United States, trying to plot an eventual endgame to its military involvement in the countries that once were part of Communist Yugoslavia, is moving to undermine President Slobodan Milosevic's tight control over Yugoslavia, senior American officials say.
American officials have toughened their tone against Mr. Milosevic in recent days and are openly supporting the democratic Government in Montenegro, a part of Yugoslavia that Mr. Milosevic has hinted he might move against. 
 Mr. Milosevic's political grip has weakened because of his mishandling of the rebellion in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo, American officials say. But they flatly deny reports of some covert or even overt new plan to oust Mr. Milosevic, saying that his fate is up to the Serbian people. And he remains an important actor in Western efforts to keep the peace in Bosnia and Kosovo, they say.
The officials were speaking after a series of high-level meetings of the Administration's national security team, with the special envoy Richard C. Holbrooke taking part by a secure video link.
While they argue that the essence of American policy -- support for the democratization of the region -- has not changed, they concede that the American tone about Mr. Milosevic has hardened. "There is a generalized feeling now throughout the Administration that Milosevic is the problem in the Balkans, and less vital for the solutions," a senior American official said.
In Brussels on Tuesday, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright called on the NATO alliance to find "an appropriate way to support the democratic aspirations of the Serb people," who "have been silenced and shackled far too long." Her spokesman, James P. Rubin, said last week: "Milosevic has been at the center of every crisis in the former Yugoslavia over the last decade. He is not simply part of the problem -- Milosevic is the problem."
But while urging democracy in Yugoslavia, the officials have not called for Mr. Milosevic's removal and are wary of a further breakup of the country, which is now made up of dominant Serbia and Montenegro. "We're not supporting the secession of Montenegro, which the Montenegrins themselves don't advocate," an official said. "That could produce another unraveling in Europe, starting with the Bosnian Serb republic."
Despite Mr. Milosevic's weaker position now, he withstood huge rallies of 200,000 people calling for his ouster two years ago, and today the democratic opposition is splintered badly, making its repression easier. The officials are concerned that Mr. Milosevic could be replaced by someone worse, like the fanatical Serbian nationalist Vojislav Seselj.
In September a slightly moderate Serb nationalist, Biljana Plavsic, whom Washington supported, was defeated by a harder-line Serb, Nikola Poplasen, in the Bosnian Serb republic.
Washington has decided to do its best to protect Montenegro and to revive support for a democratic opposition in Serbia itself, even as Mr. Milosevic has moved to crush it.
This week, for instance, the State Department welcomed a number of Serbian democrats and news media figures who have been attacked by Mr. Milosevic, including Slavko Curuvija, publisher of the newspaper Dnevni Telegraf, which Mr. Milosevic shut down on Oct. 13, but which has been revived and publishes from Montenegro. They also testified at a hearing in the House before the Congressional Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Mr. Milosevic has used the new American oratory "to circle the wagons," a European diplomat noted, drawing closer to old cronies and cracking down harder on the independent news media, much of which has withdrawn to Montenegro.
The Administration hopes to roll out an explicit program at the beginning of the year, the officials said, which will include aid to independent news organizations, academic institutions and civic organizations, many of which Mr. Milosevic has been trying to repress in Serbia. Washington will also direct further support to Montenegro, whose President, Milo Djukanovic, has been diverging from Belgrade and Mr. Milosevic and providing safe haven for a number of the news organizations and academic institutions shut down.
"There has been real progress toward democracy and economic freedom in Montenegro, and we want to support them any way we can," a senior American official said. "It's also a way to show the Serbs in Belgrade, who are watching, that we are not anti-Serb per se, which is what Milosevic always cries."
The United States is currently spending about $15 million a year, including $2 million for independent television, to promote democracy in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which consists of Serbia and Montenegro and includes Kosovo. There, Washington hopes to help independent news organizations in preparation for hoped-for elections for a local parliament.
Also early in 1999, the Administration will make public posters and publicity for a new "bounty" of $5 million a head for the capture of accused war criminals in the region, including Kosovo -- money pushed on the Executive Branch by Congress, in particular by Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, Republican of New York and chairman of the House International Relations Committee.
Among the targets of such a bounty are the former Bosnian Serb political leader Radovan Karadzic, and his military commander Gen. Ratko Mladic. Both men have been indicted by an international war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia but have not been arrested by NATO-led forces in Bosnia. The two men are believed to be living now in Serbia proper, officials said.
But the details for such a bounty program are still being worked out, especially with the Justice Department, officials say. It will be run out of the office of Robert S. Gelbard, who is in charge of carrying out the Dayton accords, and the Secretary of State will determine who qualifies for any reward.
The Administration continues to press negotiations to find a political solution to the conflict in Kosovo, between the ruling Serbs and the ethnic Albanians who make up about 90 percent of the province's population.
But Mr. Holbrooke and the chief American negotiator, Christopher Hill, have had difficulty getting a coherent political response from the badly divided ethnic Albanians. The essence of the problem is that the United States and the West want a solution -- enhanced autonomy for Kosovo within Serbia -- that is favored by neither the Serbs nor the population of Kosovo.
Increasingly, urged on by the Kosovo Liberation Army, the ethnic Albanian residents of the province want independence, while the Serbs are reluctant to grant any real autonomy, let alone an enhanced autonomy beyond the status Mr. Milosevic removed from Kosovo in 1989.
Mr. Hill, who is currently circulating his fourth draft agreement among the various parties, has been criticized by both sides. American officials say they do not expect quick success, but are still pushing to find a political settlement before the spring, when the Balkan thaw could produce new fighting in Kosovo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (75%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (75%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN RICHARD HOLBROOKE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



314 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE REACTION

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN, N.Y., Dec. 12

 BODY:
From his perch greeting customers at the Main Street Cafe in the heart of the quaint downtown here, Paul Janos found the House Judiciary Committee's party-line votes to impeach President Clinton surprisingly familiar.
Mr. Janos, a candidate for mayor of this Hudson River village of 11,000 people 25 miles north of midtown Manhattan, has himself stood square in the middle of squabbles between his fellow Republicans and Democrats, not over a sex scandal, but the more mundane questions of how to develop the waterfront. 
 "I see what happens with partisan politics in a small village like this," said Mr. Janos, 43. "I can't even imagine what it's like in Washington.
"I know that a lot of people are tired of it, myself included, but what's right is right, what's wrong is wrong. I don't think he should be exempt. I'm afraid of what the market reaction would be, though. I wonder, in the scope of things, is it worth the turmoil?"
As the Judiciary Committee approved articles of impeachment, the seriousness of the situation began to sink in around this historic village, where red plastic bags reading "Season's Greetings" covered the parking meters downtown, providing free parking to encourage shopping.
Several people, like Mr. Janos, complained that the Monica Lewinsky scandal had dragged on too long and the investigation had cost too much, comparing the publicity to that of the O. J. Simpson trial.
But many in this media-saturated region have refocused on the matter in recent days, and a number said it is time for Mr. Clinton to go, even as they worried that impeachment might be the wrong method or would threaten the nation's high-flying economy and strong position in the world.
"It's odd, because it doesn't seem like it's going to happen, but it is happening," said Lina Pagano, 25, as she and her mother, Teresa, had manicures, pedicures and eyebrow waxing today at Rose Nail salon. "The more I listen to them talk about what he did wrong, the more I think he should be impeached, for not being the type of leader we can look up to."
With its landmarks and legends, from the Rockefeller mansion to Sleepy Hollow, Tarrytown is a quiet place with views of the Hudson River and the Tappan Zee Bridge. Commuters pour off Metro-North trains at the 108-year-old Victorian train station, some heading to the million-dollar estates on the hill, others to row houses and condominiums they bought for $200,000 to be near good schools.
It is a place of thoughtful suburban parents struggling with what to do about President Clinton, who earned 55 percent of the village's vote in 1996, and carried it with 52 percent in 1992 as well. The Republican Congressman representing the area, Benjamin A. Gilman, has not disclosed his position on impeachment.
Claudia Smith, a trademark lawyer, listened to the Judiciary Committee debate on the radio as she ran errands Friday afternoon, and found it so riveting she was tempted to sit in the car rather than wait inside the Y.M.C.A. for her son, Evan Davies, 5, to finish swimming lessons.
"I'm torn," Ms. Smith said. "Two months ago, a month ago, I did not think he should be impeached. It's serious stuff now. It's not just jokes about the dress anymore."
Indeed, the snickering has stopped and the bickering begun.
At the hardware store, a man with a couple of divorces under his belt said the President should be ousted, while his friend laughed it off as just a tiff about sex, nothing significant.
At the Y, a Democratic mom was denouncing the tactics of the Republican Congressional majority as absurd when a Republican mom butted in to echo the call for impeachment.
At the Main Street Cafe, retired school employees from York, Pa., who stopped for lunch at the end of a five-day bus tour, were remembering the impeachment vote against President Richard M. Nixon a quarter-century ago and differing over whether men can be expected to say no when tempted.
"This was not a government crime," said John Markish, 71, who mentioned the many propositions he had encountered while playing bass in a dance band as a young man.
Sara Dice, 73, who was a school secretary, said, "It's a crime against his family."
"And society," added Dee Verostic, an accounting teacher, who said she retired after hearing one too many stories about students having sex in the stairwell.
Miss Verostic suggested that Mr. Clinton be shunned, as in Amish country, his face banned from every newspaper, and perhaps forced to wear a sweatshirt with a big letter on it, as in "The Scarlet Letter."
"I can't figure it out," she said, "why good sense doesn't go with intelligence."
All around the village people were shaking their heads at the same question, calling Mr. Clinton a jerk and worse. They said they would have readily forgiven the President had he stood up and admitted wrongdoing back in January when the scandal surfaced, but were none too anxious for another apology now. Most said they wished he and the whole scandal would just go away.
Some people have been shutting it out. Darron Copeland, a tax accountant from Stamford, Conn., who plunked down $500 at the Tarrytown Art and Antiques Company for a rust-colored egg chair from the 1960's, said he would rather watch the History Channel than 30 seconds of political commentary these days.
But others were following the news closely. Mr. Janos said he had been persuaded that Mr. Clinton should be punished when the Republicans called witnesses who had been imprisoned for perjury.
And the television has been stuck on C-Span all week at the Barber Pole, where a 1910 sign advertises a haircut for 25 cents (the 1998 price is $13, which includes a hot towel and shoulder massage).
"I've really tried to listen to the facts as opposed to being partisan," said the shop owner, John Vaccaro, 52, as the Judiciary Committee debated the fourth article of impeachment today. "What concerns me is what happens to the future of this office. How much do you let go by because he's popular? He's probably a fun guy to hang out with, but to be a President of this country, you need someone with morality, to make not only an intelligent decision, but moral decisions."
Gregg Goldberg, the fourth-generation owner of Goldberg's Hardware, which opened in 1904, worries more about business than politics.
"If you take him out of office, it could hurt me right here," said Mr. Goldberg, 31, patting the pockets of his jeans. "Let him get a divorce from his wife," Mr. Goldberg said, suggesting, like several others, that Mr. Clinton face the consequences of his actions in court, as a private citizen, after his term ends. "Don't take him out of the executive office and disrupt the country."
But others think it is too late, with the country already woefully disrupted, not to mention embarrassed. The retired school employees complained that Congress had passed too little legislation because of the scandal.
"I voted for him twice and I probably would vote for him a third time," said Anne Harrison, 34, a high-school English teacher who was pushing her 1-year-old son, William, in a stroller down a sunny sidewalk today. "But part of me would like to see him impeached.
"I like him a lot, but I like our system too. He's not the only person who can be President and do a great job. He should follow the law; he's not above the law."
Back at the Main Street Cafe, a portrait of George Washington embroidered by Mr. Janos's great-great aunt with the message "Never Told A Lie" hangs on the wall.
"If he's lying about this, what else is he covering up?" asked Cynthia Ferguson, the Chamber of Commerce president.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dee Verostic said President Clinton should perhaps be forced to wear a sweatshirt with a letter on it, as in "The Scarlet Letter." Paul Janos said that he did not think the President should be exempt from laws, but he wondered, "Is it worth the turmoil?" Darron Copeland, 32, a tax accountant who said he had been shutting out television's political commentary, with Stacy Belkind, 44. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 42); AGONIZING DEFEAT -- Representative Sheila Jackson Lee has been a foe of impeachment. Page 45. (Reuters); In Saturday's debate, John Conyers Jr., the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, talked with George Gekas of Pennsylvania. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAIN STREET CAFE (56%); HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TARRYTOWN (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT IMPEACHMENT (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MAYORS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ETHICS (71%); SEX SCANDALS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (66%); NAIL SALONS (61%); SUBURBS (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); APPROVALS (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; WILGOREN, JODI BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN CONYERS (58%); SHEILA JACKSON-LEE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



315 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: A Masterpiece Of Obfuscation

 BODY:

To the Sports Editor:
Jeffrey A. Mishkin's mischievous missive ("Lockout View From the Other Side," Dec. 6) is a masterpiece of obfuscation. Mishkin, the executive vice president and chief legal officer of the National Basketball Association, sidesteps the substantive issues raised in my piece ("N.B.A. Lockout: Which Side Is Dropping the Ball?" Nov. 29), distorts the statistical record and even purports to know my emotional state. 
 Mishkin decries my profit projection wherein I assume that owner revenues and player salaries will grow at 12 percent per year. In fact, the owners themselves have presented economic models to the players where they assume annual revenue growth around 12 percent. And the players have made it clear to the owners that they would accept a system that should limit salary growth approximately to the growth of revenues in the future.
Mishkin also contests my assumption that nonsalary costs would grow at 5 percent. The owners claim that they need a hard salary cap to protect owners against themselves. It is not their fault, they tell us; rather it is because the media and the fans put too much pressure on them to win. Even if one buys this tenuous logic, it certainly cannot also apply to nonplayer costs. There seems to be little reason why the salaries of head coaches and general managers have to keep on tripling every four years, or why the nonsalary costs need to grow at more than two times the rate of inflation. Indeed, two weeks ago Mishkin was sitting with me and an owner when the owner acknowledged that a 5 percent target on nonsalary costs seemed reasonable.
On smaller matters, Mishkin faults me for misrepresenting the salaries of David Stern and Russ Granik. Stern's salary has been repeatedly cited in the press as $40 million over 5 years and as currently being $9 million a year. Granik's has been cited as $4 million. I am willing to admit that I might be wrong, but it puzzles me that the National Basketball Association has waited until now to correct this misinformation. In any event, the point of citing these salaries was not to denounce Stern or Granik, but to suggest that these salary levels are not consistent with the notion of a league in financial distress.
 
ANDREW ZIMBALIST
Northampton, Mass.
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Smith College who is a consultant for the National Basketball Players Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (90%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: MISHKIN, JEFFREY A; ZIMBALIST, ANDREW (PROF) JEFFREY A MISHKIN (93%); RUSS GRANIK (80%); DAVID STERN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



316 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 13, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
Harvests of Struggle and Success

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. STEAD 

 BODY:
IN time for this season of food and drink -- the average adult, we are told, will gain seven pounds between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day -- come two new tales of how we harvest the fruits of the earth, and the vine, in America.
"With These Hands: The Hidden World of Migrant Farmworkers Today," by Daniel Rothenberg (Harcourt Brace, $28) is a fresh, and sobering, account of a familiar tale of poverty and policy failures. 
 Using interviews interspersed with analysis, the book captures the lives of the 1.5 million people who work in the nation's fruit and vegetable fields. Half of these laborers are migrants who follow the harvest. And despite periodic exposes, union organizing drives, legislation and national breast-beating, many of them are still miserably housed (sometimes in chicken coops), cheated, threatened and underpaid. Their average annual income is just $6,500.
The author, a former legal-services worker in Florida, says Government folly and the farm-labor system itself are the culprits.
As long as growers depend on an oversupply of immigrants and on the unregulated contractors who round them up, he says, farm workers will be marginalized. The migrants are powerless to negotiate in such a fragmented system.
For the most part, Mr. Rothenberg makes his case by letting people talk. The book's vignettes are drawn from 250 interviews on front porches, in border-patrol zones and labor camps, and on street corners where migrants are recruited. The final product is a mosaic of textured portraits, not a two-dimensional description of downtrodden laborers and evil overseers.
A Mexican man -- half of all migrant workers come from outside the United States -- describes repeated nightmarish forays across the border. Another worker speaks proudly of his "fast hands" in the field. A homeless man recounts his escape from a "debt peonage" camp, where, he said, he was sold food, wine and drugs in exchange for his labor -- and was always on the minus side of the ledger.
Contractors talk, too. "Ninety-nine percent of all contractors break the law," one says offhandedly. Growers, both sensitive and callous, weigh in as well.
And Border Patrol agents tell their stories. "It's a complete charade," one says about the revolving-door arrests that keep both agents and smugglers busy.
Mr. Rothenberg also traces the Federal farm labor policies that have helped and hurt workers. But he says he wrote the book to fight the laborers' biggest foe: a continuing invisibility that precludes reform.
Their stories "need to be heard," he says, "their world revealed, their lives recognized."
 Much more upbeat, but less deft, is "Harvests of Joy: My Passion for Excellence" by Robert Mondavi with Paul Chutkow (Harcourt Brace, $27), a memoir by one of California's most successful vintners.
Now 85, Mr. Mondavi looks back at a time when the Napa Valley catered mainly to the jug-wine market and when the Charles Krug Winery, owned by his father, had only a handful of competitors, like Beaulieu and Inglenook. He also tells the story of founding his own winery in 1965 after running Krug for 23 years with his brother, Peter.
A trip abroad in 1962, he writes, opened his eyes to European fine wine making, with its oak-cask aging and preference for small batches and separate treatments for each variety of grape. It was a far cry from the California mass-production practices of the time.
Some bitter family arguments -- along with the desire to adopt the European approach -- propelled his entrepreneurship and sustained a years-long feud with his brother. Mr. Mondavi appears to be candid about his own driving ambition and the "tunnel vision" that created serious rifts with his children and their mother, as well.
"Harvests of Joy" gives a sense of Mr. Mondavi's important role in building a new Napa Valley tradition of making European-style wines and marketing them in a distinctly American way. For years, the author promoted wine as part of a healthy Mediterranean-style cuisine. He offered wine tastings and French cooking seminars at his winery and traveled relentlessly to sell on the East Coast and abroad.
The Robert Mondavi Winery became a huge success: It is now a publicly traded company with joint ventures in Chile and France, including Opus One, a winemaking partnership with the prestigious Chateau Mouton, owned by the family of Baron Philippe de Rothschild.
Unfortunately, Mr. Mondavi's book is less successful than his winery. In spite of interesting sections on wine making and the history of the Napa Valley, the narrative, which often forsakes chronology, is fragmented, cliched and repetitive. And the author succumbs to the lure of offering the dreaded Business Lessons -- 15 of them -- in the concluding chapter.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WITH THESE HANDS (BOOK); HARVESTS OF JOY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONDAVI, ROBERT, WINERY

ORGANIZATION: MONDAVI, ROBERT, WINERY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; LABOR; MIGRANT LABOR; AGRICULTURE; WINES; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FARM LABOR (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); LITERATURE (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); WINERIES (61%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, DANIEL; MONDAVI, ROBERT DANIEL ROTHENBERG (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1998



317 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Omnicom buys the rest of Abbott Mead Vickers, a London affiliate, in a deal worth $545 million.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
A BIG year for big deals on Madison Avenue is coming to a close with the biggest acquisition in the history of Omnicom Group, the world's largest agency company.
Omnicom, with $31.7 billion in billings, is adding to an empire that already includes BBDO Worldwide, DDB Needham Worldwide and TBWA Worldwide with an agreement to buy the shares it did not already own in Abbott Mead Vickers P.L.C., the world's 20th-largest agency company, with $1.6 billion in billings. Omnicom will acquire the rest of Abbott Mead, which is affiliated with BBDO, in an exchange of stock that Omnicom valued at about $545 million. 
 That is the most Omnicom has paid in a transaction since the agency company was formed 12 years ago by the merger of BBDO, Doyle Dane Bernbach and Needham Harper Worldwide. By comparison, Omnicom spent an estimated $462.1 million on all acquisitions last year.
And the price Omnicom is paying is more than four times what had until now been the biggest agency deal of 1998, the acquisition of Arnold Communications by Snyder Communications for $125 million in stock.
Omnicom has owned a stake in Abbott Mead since 1991, when the British office of BBDO was sold to Abbott Mead, which then formed an agency known as Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO. That agency, based in London, is now Britain's largest, and among the most highly regarded for creative prowess.
"We've had a great relationship with them," John Wren, president and chief executive of Omnicom in New York, said on Friday, referring to the top executives of Abbott Mead, "and we're looking forward to working more closely in the future."
"This makes sure the management of both companies is working on the same issues to develop the BBDO brand," he added.
Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO has billings estimated at $594.5 million from clients including Aer Lingus, British Telecommunications, The Economist and Volvo, as well as accounts shared with BBDO like Pepsico and the Duracell International unit of Gillette.
"There's really going to be no change to speak of, certainly not initially," Mr. Wren said. "We don't want to do anything that would disturb the success of the company, its ability to grow as it has."
Lorna Tilbian, an advertising industry analyst with West LB Panmure in London, echoed Mr. Wren's assessment.
"I don't think there'll be any change," she said, "because this isn't the usual type of acquisition where there are worries about chemistry. A.M.V. has been BBDO in the U.K. for a long time, so Omnicom knows the people well."
In fact, Mr. Wren said, while he and the top executives of Abbott Mead "all agreed in the near term, the next 12 to 24 months, that they continue to run and manage what they have been running and managing, in the longer term I can see a role for Mead at Omnicom." His reference was to Peter Mead, executive chairman at Abbott Mead.
In addition to Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO, Abbott Mead owns agencies that specialize in tasks outside the realm of traditional advertising, offering services like interactive marketing, media buying, direct marketing, sales promotion and public relations.
Karen R. Ficker, advertising industry analyst for Furman Selz L.L.C. in New York, estimated that "just under 60 percent" of Abbott Mead's revenue of $176.6 million comes from such services. That is similar to Omnicom, which according to Michael Russell, advertising industry analyst for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company in New York, derives 50 percent of its revenue of $4.2 billion from those sources.
Ms. Ficker said the diversified revenue at Abbott Mead was "very much a positive" for Omnicom because services apart from advertising are expected to turn in "a strong performance next year" despite "concerns over the U.K. traditional-advertising environment."
Mr. Wren said he expected the acquisition to be completed in early February, pending approval by shareholders and British courts. The Abbott Mead board supported the deal unanimously.
Trade publications had speculated for several years that Omnicom would move to buy the rest of Abbott Mead. That helped push up the price of shares of Abbott Mead, which trade on the London Stock Exchange. The recent increase in the price of Omnicom stock, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, softened the financial burden of the deal for Omnicom.
And now for the fine print.
The terms of the deal call for Abbott Mead shareholders to get 0.1347 newly issued Omnicom share for each Abbott Mead ordinary share they own. Based on Friday's closing stock prices and currency exchange rates, the deal values Abbott Mead at 422 pence ($7.14) a share, a 17 percent premium to the price on Nov. 25. That was the day before the two agency companies disclosed that they had begun discussing Omnicom's taking full ownership of Abbott Mead.
After a run-up since that disclosure, Abbott Mead shares closed unchanged on Friday at 420 pence ($7.10). Omnicom shares, meanwhile, fell $2.50, to $53.
Omnicom had owned a 27.7 percent stake in Abbott Mead, but "for technical reasons related to taxes and capital gains," Ms. Tilbian said, the transaction was structured as a pooling of interests. That required Omnicom to reduce its stake in Abbott Mead to less than 10 percent.
So early Friday, Omnicom sold 15.1 million shares of Abbott Mead to a trust, leaving it with about a 7.7 percent stake. As a result, the exchange of stock will be for an estimated 92.3 percent of Abbott Mead shares. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (96%); AERL (LSE) (53%); PEP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (54%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS PLC; OMNICOM GROUP OMNICOM GROUP INC (96%); ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS GROUP LTD (72%); ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS.BBDO LTD (58%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (53%); PEPSICO INC (52%); WESTLB AG (51%); ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS BBDO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS PLC; OMNICOM GROUP ABBOTT MEAD VICKERS BBDO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (54%); NEW YORK, USA (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART JOHN D WREN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



318 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Acting Quickly, Japan Seizes A 2d Big and Failing Bank

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 13

 BODY:
The Japanese Government said today that it would take over the Nippon Credit Bank, in the second nationalization of a large and failing bank this fall.
The swiftness of the Government's action surprised the bank, which had hoped for a softer landing through gradual write-offs of its crippling bad loans and an alliance with another lender. 
 "This was an extremely sudden and regrettable move," said Shigeoki Togo, Nippon Credit's president. "Still, the Government may have decided we can't go on for 10 or 15 years carrying these bad loans, and nationalization may prove to be the fastest way of getting rid of them."
Analysts said the takeover of the bank, Japan's 14th-biggest lender, was the clearest signal yet that the Government was serious about cleaning up banks laden with more than 72 trillion yen, or $618.8 billion, in uncovered bad and risky debt.
"This is what people have been waiting for -- the Japanese Government getting strong and tough with the banks," said Robert Zielinski, head of Asian bank research at Lehman Brothers here. "Welcome to the new Japan."
The Government will guarantee Nippon Credit's bonds, deposits and interbank dealings, Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi said in a statement.
Until recently, the Government had insisted it would not let any of its big lenders fail.
Last year, it organized a nearly $2.5 billion bailout of Nippon Credit Bank with private and public money. And in March, the bank was one of 21 major lenders to receive an injection of public money to strengthen its capital.
Now, the Government is taking a harder line. In October, it took over the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan after an audit of the nation's 19 nationwide lenders found the bank to be insolvent.
The same audit showed that Nippon Credit Bank had liabilities exceeding assets by 94.4 billion yen as of March 31, said Masaharu Hino, the head of the Financial Supervisory Agency.
"We're operating a completely new system now, and our priority is to win back the confidence of financial companies inside and outside Japan," said Hakuo Yanagisawa, the minister of financial reconstruction, a post created in October. "Nippon Credit wasn't able to convince us it would be able to recover on its own."
As a nationalized bank, Nippon Credit will be forced to sell its bad loans to a Japanese version of the Resolution Trust Corporation in the United States. The Japanese agency is to be set up in April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8304 (TSE) (84%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NIPPON CREDIT BANK LTD; LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN AOZORA BANK LTD (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIPPON CREDIT BANK LTD; LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NATIONALIZATION OF INDUSTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANK FAILURES (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); AUDITS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



319 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 12; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
They Made Mistakes, but They Saved the World

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

THE GREATEST GENERATION
By Tom Brokaw
Illustrated. 390 pages. Random House. $24.95.
 Up to a point, you can sympathize with what Tom Brokaw is saying in "The Greatest Generation": that the American men and women who were born around 1920, who came of age in the Great Depression, who fought in World War II and who rebuilt the postwar world and passed the results on to succeeding generations, were extraordinary.
"It is a generation," Mr. Brokaw writes, "that, by and large made no demands of homage from those who followed and prospered economically, politically and culturally because of its sacrifices." He continues, "It is a generation of towering achievement and modest demeanor, a legacy of their formative years when they were participants in and witness to sacrifices of the highest order." 
 It is a generation, he argues, that makes you think of all those words that Hemingway once said you couldn't use anymore: duty, honor, country, flag, family, church, faith, loyalty, self-sacrifice, purpose, modesty, responsibility.
Sure, the generation made mistakes, Mr. Brokaw admits: racism, sex discrimination, anti-Communist hysteria, Vietnam. Or as he puts it, somewhat cloudily: "They allowed McCarthyism and racism to go unchallenged for too long. Women of the World War II generation, who had demonstrated so convincingly that they had so much more to offer beyond their traditional work, were the underpinning for the liberation of their gender, even as many of their husbands resisted the idea. When a new war broke out, many of the veterans initially failed to recognize the difference between their war and the one in Vietnam."
Still, he concludes, "This is the greatest generation any society has produced."
Mr. Brokaw's motives in writing the book seem heartfelt. Walking the beaches in Normandy in 1984 with American veterans while preparing an NBC television documentary on the 40th anniversary of D-Day, he "underwent a life-changing experience," he reports. "I was deeply moved and profoundly grateful for all they had done. I realized that they had been all around me as I was growing up and that I had failed to appreciate what they had been though and what they had accomplished." So his book is a tribute to his parents and their friends, as well as to their conduct.
And the stories he tells of them are diverting enough, occasionally even inspiring. Chronicling some 50 lives, he offers examples of the many virtues he is celebrating: people who distinguished themselves both in battle and on the home front, men who built careers despite being disabled by the war, women who overcame the obstacles that were stacked against them, minorities who used adversity to improve their people's lives.
Some are individuals whom Mr. Brokaw met while researching D-Day. Others he came to know while growing up in South Dakota. Some are obscure and consider their achievements ordinary. Others were vaulted to fame by their wartime experiences: George Bush, Ben Bradlee, Bob Dole, Caspar Weinberger, among others.
All stand as a rebuke to certain excesses in the contemporary culture: the desire to place one's own interests first, the habit of regarding the truth as the most recent words to pass your teeth, the refusal to take responsibility for one's behavior, the tendency to view the births of one's children as random events to which one has little connection, the inclination to measure one's worth by how much money one has. In short, almost everything exemplified these days by many professional athletes, a few talk-show hosts and a certain President of the United States.
But enough is as good as a feast, and what Mr. Brokaw offers here is far more than enough. Three stories would suffice to make his point; 50 are a surfeit causing the eyes to glaze over, especially when they repeat one another's point and lack sharp individual focus. Nor are they particularly well told, rambling as they are and replete with cliches. (The three times the word seminal is used, it refers to a woman's work, as in "Betty Friedan's seminal book on the place of modern women, 'The Feminine Mystique.' ") Such is the predictability of Mr. Brokaw's prose that you can read every fourth sentence of it and get the idea.
This is too bad because the matter of why patriotism waxes and wanes during a nation's history is a significant one worth deeper exploration than Mr. Brokaw has given it. Among the many people he talked with, only Andy Rooney challenged his thesis that the generation in question was a superior one, arguing, as Mr. Brokaw puts it, that "the character of the current generation is just as strong; it's just that his generation had a Depression, World War II and a cold war against which to test their character."
The story that "The Greatest Generation" tells too repeatedly makes you suspect that Mr. Rooney is right: First came the challenges, then the heroic responses. Equally you suspect that somewhere in the United States today are people facing challenges nearly as daunting as Mr. Brokaw's wartime generation did: challenges of poverty, of prejudice, of cultural displacement and facing them as heroically as Mr. Brokaw's subjects did.
They may not represent an entire generation, but they will be heard from somewhere down the road. Dare one hope in these feckless times that they may someday be in charge of the show?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Brokaw

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GREATEST GENERATION, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (87%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (70%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (87%); FRANCE (50%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (70%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WORLD WAR II (89%); MEN (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); RACE & RACISM (71%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); LITERATURE (62%); BEACHES (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; BROKAW, TOM TOM BROKAW (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



320 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Fell in October

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13

 BODY:
Orders for machine tools fell in October from a month earlier as demand dropped across the country, an industry survey showed.
Orders from companies for domestic and foreign-produced machine tools declined 23 percent, to an estimated $608 million in October from $793 million in September, said a joint report from the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association. 
 "U.S. manufacturers are taking a well-needed breather from their hectic pace of investment in capital equipment," Ralph J. Nappi, president of the distributors' association, said.
October's decline capped a 7 percent drop in estimated machine tool orders for the first 10 months of 1998, compared with the corresponding period a year earlier. Estimated orders so far this year totaled $6.6 billion, the two industry groups said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



321 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: If Microsoft Loses Case, Remedies Are Thorny

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
In the Microsoft trial, witness after witness for the Government has described the big software company's industry-standard Windows operating system as the essential utility of modern computing.
To succeed in the marketplace, they explain, a new software product must have access to the Microsoft Corporation's technology if the product is to run smoothly on top of the Windows operating system. Even a rival like the Netscape Communications Corporation, the Internet browser pioneer, must ask for Microsoft's cooperation so that it can compete against Microsoft -- a situation created by Microsoft's broad reach across so many software and Internet commerce markets, from spreadsheets to on-line travel services. 
 The Justice Department has depicted Microsoft as unfairly using the technical leverage and market power that stems from its 90 percent share of the operating system market to stifle competition.
"The case is fundamentally about access," said William Kovacic, an antitrust expert at the George Washington University Law School. "Microsoft is accused, figuratively, of saying again and again that you can't set foot on our bridge unless you agree to the following conditions. If not, the company is left dangling with one foot off the bridge or told to learn to swim."
Yet while the case raises the issue of access to technology, it also shows that doing anything to force Microsoft to provide access to its technology will be tricky, both on legal and practical grounds.
During the trial, Justice Department lawyers have declared Microsoft to be a monopoly at every opportunity. But they have never once called it an "essential facility" -- a legal theory that the courts have been reluctant to apply beyond regulated monopolies like railroads, electric utilities and telephone networks. The doctrine dates to 1912, when the Supreme Court ruled against a group of railroads, led by a turn-of-the-century robber baron, Jay Gould, that denied competitors access to a bridge on the Mississippi River.
But the Government will almost certainly have to deal with the issue of technology access if it wins the Microsoft case and asks the court to order remedial action. Antitrust experts observing the trial say that at least at the Federal District Court level, the Government seems likely to win -- based on Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's actions, from giving the Justice Department plenty of leeway to broaden its case with last-minute evidence to remarking that William H. Gates, the Microsoft chairman, "has not been particularly responsive" in his videotaped deposition. In a related case last year, Judge Jackson ruled against Microsoft, though he was overruled by an appeals court last June.
The Justice Department will not discuss possible remedies until the case is over. Still, the Government is stepping up its efforts to try to devise an effective remedial plan. Joel I. Klein, the Assistant Attorney General who heads the Justice Department's antitrust division, has asked Timothy F. Bresnahan, an economics professor at Stanford University, to study the options for remedies, according to a person close to the Justice Department.
Mr. Bresnahan, known for his rigorous statistical studies of industry structure and markets, is co-director of the Stanford Computer Industry Project, a research program whose corporate sponsors include Microsoft. He will be one of several experts advising Mr. Klein on remedies. Daniel Rubinfeld, the chief economist of the antitrust division, plans to leave the Justice Department at the end of this year, but he will remain a consultant on the Microsoft case.
Yet the role of the economic and legal experts counseling the Justice Department is mainly to present a set of options to Mr. Klein. And although the White House does not get involved in the Justice Department's investigations or decisions to file suits, it could weigh in on the remedies issue.
An effort by the Justice Department, for example, to try to break up Microsoft or force the company to open up access to its operating system technology could well be a major economic policy decision. Whether the Government seeks sweeping or more limited remedies will depend on how great the finding of liability is, if any, against Microsoft.
In the trial, the subject of access to Microsoft's technology is typically raised in terms of a seemingly arcane three-letter acronym -- A.P.I., for application program interface. A.P.I.'s are the software hooks that any program, from spreadsheets to games to Internet browsers, must use to run smoothly on top of the operating system, which controls the basic operations of a computer.
Nearly every Government witness has discussed A.P.I.'s and has tried to offer Judge Jackson a nontechnical translation. "You can think of these interfaces as connectors, as a socket in a wall, like the ones you put a plug in for electricity," Dr. James Gosling, a vice president of Sun Microsystems Inc., explained to the judge last week.
The issue of access to Microsoft's A.P.I.'s is at the root of the Government's case. Because Microsoft knows where every one of those plugs is -- and how each one works -- competitors complain that it has an enormous advantage over other developers in designing software that will run seamlessly on Windows.
It was to gain access to Microsoft's A.P.I.'s that Netscape says it met with Microsoft on June 21, 1995. Two days after that meeting, responding to a Government inquiry, Netscape's outside counsel, Gary L. Reback, wrote to the Justice Department. At the June meeting, he stated, "Microsoft indicated it would not provide this information to Netscape unless Microsoft gets an equity interest in Netscape, a seat on Netscape's board of directors, and otherwise controls Netscape's ability to compete against Microsoft."
Microsoft denied the allegation, saying that Netscape and the Government had distorted a fairly routine meeting in the software business, where companies often cooperate in some areas and compete in others. "There is no proof in the record that Microsoft denied Netscape anything," said Charles F. Rule, a former senior Justice Department official who is an adviser to Microsoft. "The Government simply doesn't have a denial-of-access case."
Tackling the issue of open access to Microsoft's technology is crucial to loosening the company's choke hold on the industry, said Ken Wasch, president of the Software Publishers Association, a trade group. "Any remedy that doesn't in some way deal with access to A.P.I.'s won't have much of an impact," he said.
But those software interfaces are Microsoft's intellectual property, and having the Government police the distribution of them to other companies runs the risk of becoming a regulatory nightmare. A few months ago, a senior Justice Department official said emphatically, "I don't want to get into the business of having to be the arbiter of whether Microsoft has released every new set of Windows A.P.I.'s on a timely basis."
There could, however, be ways to limit the Government's oversight role. Justice Department officials did take note of the announcement last week by Sun to open up the development of Java, its Internet programming language. It announced that the accounting firm Pricewaterhouse Coopers would audit the specification and guarantee fair, impartial distribution of Java A.P.I.'s.
"A behavioral remedy that requires some monitoring of access to technology does take you down a regulatory path, but it could be workable," said Carl Shapiro, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley who is a former Justice Department official. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (92%); AOL INC (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); WITNESSES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); EVIDENCE (78%); INTERNET BROWSERS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); DEPOSITIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); MONOPOLIZATION (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



322 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Dissent and Death in Iran

 BODY:
Political murder has returned to Iran with liberal intellectuals the target and conservative religious forces a possible sponsor. Several prominent critics of clerical repression have been killed in the last month. The body of the latest victim, Mohammad Jafar Pouyandeh, was identified by his family over the weekend. President Mohammad Khatami, who has condemned the recent killings, is trying to ease Iran's isolation by demonstrating that its revolution no longer countenances terrorism. But his efforts will succeed only if he can overcome those who would drag Iran back to the bloodshed and intolerance of the years following its 1979 revolution.
The two latest victims of terror, Mr. Pouyandeh and Mohammad Mokhtari, appear to have been targeted because they tried to revive a writers' union and campaigned against clerical censorship. In October, both were questioned by an Islamic revolutionary court about these efforts. Earlier killings involved Javad Sharif, a returned exile, and Dariush Forouhar, a veteran secular politician and human rights advocate who was stabbed to death along with his wife, Parvaneh. Last month a bus carrying American businessmen was attacked by a group that opposes Mr. Khatami's policy of encouraging private ties between Iran and the United States. 
 Though Mr. Khatami is Iran's top elected leader, he is outranked by the country's conservative spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Mr. Khamenei and his supporters are uncomfortable with Mr. Khatami's efforts to encourage freer political and cultural expression. They have used their power in the courts to close newspapers and harass dissidents. Now some extremists may be going further by using assassination to silence critics.
The Clinton Administration has been right to respond positively to Mr. Khatami's cautious diplomatic overtures. But in the face of clerical resistance and Iran's growing economic problems, it is still not clear if Mr. Khatami's moderate domestic and foreign policies will prevail. A return to revolutionary terror in Iran bodes poorly for ending the chill between Teheran and Washington, even though a continued thaw would serve the best interests of both countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (73%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); POLITICS (79%); CENSORSHIP (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); WRITERS (74%); DEATHS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); LITERATURE (69%); MURDER (59%); 

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



323 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Reports 5 Percent Drop in Serious Crime

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13

 BODY:
Extending a six-year trend, serious crimes dropped another 5 percent in the first half of this year, the Federal Bureau of Investigation reported today.
Citing preliminary figures from police departments around the nation, the F.B.I. said that violent crimes were down 7 percent and that property crimes, which are far more numerous, were down 5 percent, compared with the first six months of 1997. 
 All seven major crime categories showed declines, led by drops of 11 percent for robberies and 8 percent for homicides.
Aggravated assault and rape were both down 5 percent.
In property crime, auto theft dropped 8 percent, larceny-theft declined 5 percent and burglary dipped 3 percent.
The half-year report comes weeks after the F.B.I. released its final 1997 figures, which showed the national homicide rate reaching its lowest point in 30 years. The midyear report contains only percentage changes in the number of crimes and does not provide national totals for specific crimes or crime rates per 100,000 residents.
"This is remarkable progress and it shows that our strategy of more police, tougher gun laws and better crime prevention is making a difference," President Clinton said in a statement.
Attorney General Janet Reno said the country had turned a "historic corner" on crime. "Crime is still too high," she said, "but rising crime rates are not a fact of life."
Academic experts and law-enforcement and elected officials have attributed the six-and-a-half-year decline largely to the aging of the baby boom generation beyond its crime-prone years and police efforts to get guns away from teen-agers, especially in big cities.
Other reasons include increased police-community cooperation; stiffer sentences, particularly for violent criminals; prevention programs for children with little supervision; the improved national economy, and reductions in crack cocaine use and the warfare between gangs that peddle it.
All seven crime categories declined in all regions of the country, except for a 1 percent increase in burglary in the Midwest. Over all, serious crimes were down 8 percent in the Northeast, 6 percent in the West, 5 percent in the South and 1 percent in the Midwest.
Over all, crime declined in cities of all sizes, in suburbs and in rural areas. Cities with more than one million residents saw a drop of 6 percent. The largest decline was 8 percent in cities of 50,000 to 99,999. Towns under 10,000 recorded a drop of 3 percent.
Suburban counties saw 6 percent declines over all, and rural counties reported a 2 percent overall drop.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (86%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); MIDWEST USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS CRIME RATES (97%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); TRENDS (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); BURGLARY (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); ROBBERY (77%); SENTENCING (73%); VEHICLE THEFT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); COUNTIES (72%); SUBURBS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); GUN CONTROL (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



324 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2189 words

HEADLINE: Morris K. Udall, Fiercely Liberal Congressman, Dies at 76

BYLINE: By RICHARD SEVERO 

 BODY:
Morris K. Udall of Arizona, a liberal conscience of the House of Representatives for 30 years and a tireless advocate for environmental protection and political reform, died late Saturday in Washington. He was 76.
According to Terrence L. Bracy, the chairman of the Morris K. Udall Foundation in Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Udall died of complications from Parkinson's disease, which was first diagnosed in 1980 and led to his resignation from Congress in 1991. He spent the final stage of his life in a veterans' hospital in Washington. 
 Mr. Udall, a lifelong Democrat, was a rare figure on the Washington scene, a politician who flourished despite the fact that his politics frequently did not square with the views held by many of his constituents.
The voters of his district were known for their support of conservative issues and conservative politicians like Senator Barry M. Goldwater. But from the time Mr. Udall was first elected in 1961 in Arizona's Second Congressional District until his retirement, they voted for him in overwhelming numbers, and they did not seem to care that he earned high marks from organizations like Americans for Democratic Action and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Arizonans identified with Mr. Udall's unabashed love of unspoiled nature, and they applauded his efforts to create safeguards for the environment, including curbs on strip mining and legislation to protect more than 100 million acres of wilderness in Alaska.
Mr. Udall's supporters came to believe in the 1970's that the 6-foot-5-inch former professional basketball player known to his friends as Mo might be a viable candidate for President. Mr. Udall believed it, too, hoping that his reputation for honesty and rugged integrity would help him become the nation's first elected post-Watergate President.
But in 1976 he finished second in six Democratic primaries, losing the nomination to Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia. His liberal positions, among them proposals to break up the large oil companies and to set up a national health insurance program, were considered too extreme by some elements in his party. In addition, he lacked both the name recognition and the money needed to keep his campaign going.
Mr. Udall considered running again in 1980, because he did not believe that President Carter could defeat Ronald Reagan. But he ultimately threw his support to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, largely because he was mindful of questions about the state of his health.
Mr. Udall had disclosed earlier that year that he had Parkinson's disease, a progressive disorder that is often characterized by tremors, stiff muscles and a deterioration of certain functions of the brain. Despite his condition, he remained active in the House for another decade.
In the 80's, he continued to be in the vanguard of those who insisted that the environment be protected from industry. He actively opposed oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. The coastal plain of the refuge was thought to be especially rich in oil, but Mr. Udall, who served as chairman of the House Interior Committee, called it "a sacred place" that should never be invaded by oil rigs.
He was also a leader in the fight to push a tough strip-mining bill through the House in the 70's. The bill was vetoed twice by President Gerald R. Ford before it passed in 1977 and became a pioneering piece of environmental legislation, reclaiming millions of acres of coal land.
In his years in Congress, Mr. Udall was in the forefront of efforts to protect the environment, expand the national parks system and restructure the energy industry. The National Wildlife Federation named him its legislator of the year in 1973.
In 1963 he proposed legislation to put cigarettes and other tobacco products under the control of the Food and Drug Administration. He favored putting the Government on a pay-as-you-go basis and slashing the Federal debt. He also promoted major legislation dealing with postal reform and land-use planning.
He worked overtime to reform the way the House does business. From the start he disclosed his finances and put his income tax returns in open files. He gave up his lucrative law practice. He fought for financial disclosure legislation. He proposed curbs on lobbyists.
He played a key role in drafting and passing the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, the first substantial revision of campaign financing laws since 1925. The law, which required candidates for Federal office to file detailed reports on the money they raised and spent, was used to help expose the Watergate scandal in 1973.
Mr. Udall also took on the powerful committee chairmen who controlled Congress under the seniority system. He wanted to break their hold by allowing the top three ranking members on each House committee to be eligible for the chairmanship.
Morris King Udall was born June 15, 1922, in St. John's, Ariz., the son of Levi S. and Louise Lee Udall. One of his great-grandfathers had led the first Mormons into Arizona from Utah. His father started out digging ditches, achieved success as a farmer, took law school correspondence courses and served for 16 years on the Arizona Supreme Court. His mother was the author of the book "Mine and Me," the story of a Hopi woman's life.
Levi Udall stressed to his children the need for responsible people to enter public service. Morris had two brothers and two sisters. One of his brothers, Stewart, was elected to Congress from Arizona's Second Congressional District and served until he resigned to become Secretary of the Interior in 1961. Mo Udall won the special election to fill his brother's seat.
As a boy, Mo Udall had more than his share of adversity. When he was 5 years old, his right eye was accidentally injured by a playmate. At that point, Levi Udall was still struggling and did not have enough money to obtain decent medical care for his son. Morris Udall later recalled being taken to a doctor in St. John's who, he said, was "mostly drunk" and who recommended that the eye be treated with poultices. The eye soon became infected and was lost.
Mr. Udall said the experience helped mold his sense of social consciousness and strengthen his belief that all Americans should have the right to consult with qualified physicians, regardless of ability to pay.
When in later life Mr. Udall talked about any of his problems, it was always with self-deprecating wit, and no illness could change that. "I'm a one-eyed Mormon Democrat from conservative Arizona," he would say, "and you can't have a higher handicap that that."
After graduating from high school in 1940, Mr. Udall entered the University of Arizona, but after the United States entered World War II, he maneuvered his way into the Army despite the loss of his eye. In fact, he recalled, it was at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio that he got his first decent glass eye: it not only fit, but the color matched as well.
He served as commander of an all-black squadron in Louisiana for two years. "That really shaped my life," he later said. "I fought their fights with them. We had some battles over local discrimination." He served in the South Pacific and achieved the rank of Captain in the Army Air Corps.
In 1946, he returned to the University of Arizona, where he was voted president of the student body and was a co-captain and all-conference forward on the basketball team. After completing his undergraduate work, he briefly played professionally with the Denver Nuggets.
But he set aside his athletic career in 1949, after his admission to the bar. He returned to Arizona, set up a law practice with his brother Stewart and entered politics. He was elected chief deputy attorney for Pima County in 1950 and three years later was elected county attorney. He suffered a setback in 1954 when he failed to win a nomination for a Superior Court judgeship. But seven years later he succeeded his brother in Congress, and he remained a leading liberal voice there for the next three decades.
Mr. Udall prided himself on his independence and outspokenness. In 1967, he broke with colleagues in the House who wanted to unseat Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. of New York; he felt it would be an injustice to Mr. Powell's constituents. That same year, he returned to hawkish Arizona and made a speech in Tucson in which he said he had erred in supporting American involvement in the war in Vietnam.
His experiences in World War II led him to cease being an active member of the Mormon Church. Citing the church's policy of not allowing black people to become priests (which it has since rescinded), he said, "For more than 25 years I have held and expressed a deep-seated and conscientious disagreement with the church doctrine on the role of blacks."
Throughout his career, Mr. Udall was regarded as a formidable parliamentary tactician and an astute politician. But he failed in his efforts to oust John McCormack of Massachusetts as Speaker of the House in 1969, when Mr. McCormack was 77 and tiring but still too formidable for anyone else to dare challenge him. And he also failed in a bid to oust Hale Boggs of Louisiana as House majority leader in 1970.
When he lost to Mr. Boggs, after promised support from some liberals failed to materialize, he turned his "Mo" campaign button upside down so it read "Ow."
Mr. Udall was married to Patricia Emery from 1949 until their divorce in 1966. They had six children. He married Ella Royston in 1968. She committed suicide 20 years later. In 1989, he married Norma Gilbert. He is survived by his wife; two brothers, Stewart L. Udall of Sante Fe, N.M., and David Burr Udall of Tucson, Ariz.; two sisters, Elma Udall of Albuquerque, N.M., and Eloise Whiting of Albuquerque; six children, Mark of Boulder, Colo., Randolph of Carbondale, Colo., Judith Udall Harding of Boulder, Anne Udall of Charlotte, N.C., Bradley of Eagle, Colo., and Katherine Udall of Norman, Okla.; and seven grandchildren.
Mr. Udall's son Mark was elected to the House of Representatives from Boulder this year. A nephew, Tom Udall, won a House seat from Santa Fe, N.M., in the same election.
Mr. Udall resigned from the House after a fall in his home in Arlington, Va., in 1991. But he had decided even before that, he said, that he could not be a candidate for office in 1992.
In his honor, Congress in 1992 established the Morris K. Udall Foundation, which is dedicated to environmental education and mediation.
Before illness took its toll, Mr. Udall liked to write and took pleasure in creating his own newsletters to his constituents. Some of his newsletters, which were distinctive because they were devoid of self-promotion and concentrated on voter education, were published in book form in 1972 under the title "The Education of a Congressman." His witticisms were the subject of another book, "Too Funny to Be President," which he published after his bid for the Presidency in 1976.
Mr. Udall's humor was appreciated in Washington and Arizona.
As a member of the House Post Office Committee, he would joke: "Let's turn inflation over to the Post Office. That'll slow it down."
During his modest campaign in 1976 for the Democratic nomination for President, he told audiences about the time he stopped in a barbershop in New Hampshire, announced who he was and what he was running for, and was told by a patron, "Yep, we were just laughing about that yesterday."
He enjoyed telling stories to his friends, and when in the final stage of his illness he fell mostly silent, it was an agonizing loss for them. "You'd tell him a joke and his eyes would twinkle as he prepared to tell you two back -- but he couldn't get them out," said Representative Pat Williams, a Democrat of Montana. Still, his friends remembered that he even joked about his Parkinson's disease. Indeed, he suggested there was a similarity between his disease and Paula Parkinson, a lobbyist who was involved in one of Washington's periodic sex scandals. "They both cause you to lose sleep," he said, "and they both give you the shakes."
As the disease progressed Mr. Udall was confined to the veterans' hospital in Washington. And as time passed, his condition deteriorated. Michael Lewis, a columnist for The New York Times Magazine, found that Senator John McCain, the conservative Republican from Arizona, was one of Mr. Udall's few visitors.
"Mo reached out to me in 50 different ways," Senator McCain told Mr. Lewis. When he was elected to the House in 1982, he said, Mr. Udall took him in hand, although they did not think alike on many issues. Four years later, when Mr. McCain won the Senate seat of a retiring Barry Goldwater, he said he felt his deepest sense of gratitude not to his fellow conservative but to Mr. Udall.
"There no way Mo could have been more wonderful," Mr. McCain told Mr. Lewis, "And there was no reason for him to be that way." Whenever he takes the Senate floor on behalf of American Indians or argues that the Republican Party should support environmentalism, the Senator said, he remembers his debt to Mo Udall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Morris K. Udall (Associated Press, 1983); Morris K. Udall in New York with Bella Abzug and other Democrats. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1976) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (54%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AFL-CIO (55%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (55%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AFL-CIO (55%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (55%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (54%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); BASKETBALL (64%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); WILDERNESS (50%); 

PERSON: UDALL, MORRIS K; SEVERO, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



325 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Indispensable Man

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Dec. 13

 BODY:
President Clinton may have left the United States on the heels of what one Israeli daily termed a Congressional intifada, using the Arabic term for uprising. He may have suffered a lukewarm greeting from a reluctant host, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He may face uncertain success rather than the triumphant celebration of peace originally envisioned.
But there is no question that Mr. Clinton is engaged in a critical salvage mission for the faltering peace effort, and that he has made himself an indispensable authority figure in the blood feud between the Israelis and the Palestinians. 
 It may seem a peculiar role for him at this moment, given his domestic troubles, but here Mr. Clinton is staking out the moral high ground.
On the eve of Hanukkah, a newspaper cartoon in the daily Yediot Ahronot depicted the American President as a burning candle who had come to "dispel darkness" -- as did the Maccabees in the revolt commemorated by the Festival of Lights.
Indeed, when Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Clinton addressed a convention hall filled with teen-agers tonight, they were a study in contrasts, dark and light.
In a calm but defensive speech, laced with attacks on the Palestinians, Mr. Netanyahu made clear to the youth of his country the mistrust that underlies his commitment to the peace effort.
He said Palestinians could roam through Israel freely, visiting Tel Aviv or the beach at Netanya. In contrast, he said, "Well, you can enter Gaza -- that's for sure -- but getting out of there, that's a different story."
President Clinton, on the other hand, gave an uplifting, optimistically American speech. He made clear that he empathized with "the history of heartbreak" that defines Israeli-Palestinian relations, but he preached accommodation to immutable realities.
"One thing and only one thing is predestined," Mr. Clinton said. "You are bound to be neighbors. The question is not whether you will live side by side, but how."
On Israeli television, which carried the event live, when a commentator managed to speak above the din of cheers, he said the scene "looked and sounded like a Democratic National Convention."
Before Mr. Clinton's arrival, municipal workers hastened to scrape hostile posters from the city's walls: doctored photographs picturing the American President wearing an Arab headscarf, with the Hebrew caption, "I am a Palestinian."
Members of Mr. Netanyahu's Cabinet had to be persuaded to refrain from expressing too loudly their displeasure at Mr. Clinton's visit, which is organized around a trip to Gaza on Monday to attend a meeting of the Palestine National Council.
The Cabinet members, opponents of the peace effort, said they believed that his trip would come across as an endorsement of Palestinian sovereignty. They also clearly feared that it could repair the breakdown in relations between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
But many Israelis, speaking privately, on the radio, or in newspapers, expressed embarrassment at the Government's tepid if not hostile reception of an American President particularly popular in Israel who is making his fourth trip here at a moment that many perceive to be fateful.
"It is important for you to know that not all of us are deceitful," Meir Shalev, a novelist, wrote in a newspaper column. "Not all of us are grave worshipers. Not all of us are paranoid. Not all of us are existential stones. Not all of us are uncouth, thankless beggars."
The newspaper Maariv dedicated its front page to a column by its editor in chief, Yaakov Erez, welcoming the "leader of the free world."
"We all hope, save for the radical fringes, that Clinton will be able to bridge the abyss at our feet, exhibit his magic touch in his talks with Arafat and Netanyahu and restore the hope of peace to our chests," Mr. Erez said.
It is a tricky role for the American President, and it could set a dangerous precedent in a rocky process. Clearly, the Americans have moved from mediators to overseers and guarantors of the peace effort. But the role will become untenable if the Israelis and the Palestinians need not only American assistance but also direct Presidential intervention to clear the major bumps in the road.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Netanyahu seemed at odds today. After a meeting that lasted all morning, in which they reportedly spent only 10 minutes alone, they shook hands laterally, reaching across their bodies as both faced forward looking grim.
They then presented different realities. In Mr. Netanyahu's report card on the fulfillment of the peace accord, the Israelis passed with flying colors and the Palestinians were completely delinquent. Using harsh language, he blamed Palestinian leaders for "openly inciting violence and riots" and for organizing violent demonstrations.
He also said his own domestic political problems -- the fact that his Government, hanging on by a thread, might benefit by lurching rightward -- played no role in the Israeli freezing of the process of fulfilling the accord.
In contrast, Mr. Clinton praised and condemned actions on both sides, although he singled out the recent unrest in the Palestinian territories. And he repeatedly referred to Mr. Netanyahu's "political constraints," as well as to those of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader.
Finally, Mr. Clinton repeatedly underscored the cash bounty waiting for the Israelis: $1.2 billion in economic assistance, if Congress approves his request.
Tethering the vaunted American idealism, which some Israelis and some Palestianians rergard as diplomatic naivete, is the promise of a fat new American purse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS HANUKKAH (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); SONTAG, DEBORAH BILL CLINTON (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



326 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE LEGACY;
Effects on the Presidency Uncertain, but Certainly Lasting

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13

 BODY:
The judgment of history after the impeachment and near conviction of President Andrew Johnson in 1868 was that Congress had badly overstepped proper bounds. It was 106 years before the impeachment of a President was seriously considered again.
By contrast, after the impeachment proceedings against President Richard M. Nixon in 1974, the national consensus was that the special prosecutors, Archibald Cox and Leon Jaworski, had been protectors of the public weal and that Congress had acted responsibly and even heroically. 
 As a consequence, every President since Nixon has faced, to one degree or another, criminal inquiry by an independent counsel, and Congress has used its power of investigation time and again to settle political scores.
By the same token, both sides argued in the House Judiciary Committee's debate last week that the effort to impeach President Clinton would have lasting effects on the Presidency. Politicians and scholars interviewed over the weekend did not dispute that, but they disagreed over what the legacy would be.
Democrats on the Judiciary Committee maintained that a Clinton impeachment would mean that for years to come, whenever Congress was controlled by the party opposing the President, the President would be in jeopardy of being impeached.
"We will be setting a precedent that could seriously weaken the office of the Presidency," said Senator-elect Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. "We will be substantially lowering the bar for removing a sitting President so that we will be in danger of all too frequently investigating Presidents and seeking to remove them from office."
In an interview, another Democrat, Representative Bill Delahunt of Massachusetts, said that "the balance of power between the branches of Government is at risk," and he predicted that the country was in for "a period of partisan retribution."
But Republicans asserted that Mr. Clinton had diminished the Presidency with his reckless conduct and that the lesson for future Presidents was that they would be held to high personal standards.
Representative Lamar Smith of Texas put it this way: "If our actions send a message that future Presidents should not lie under oath; should tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, as President Clinton swore to do when giving testimony before a judge and then a grand jury; that future Presidents should uphold the law as President Clinton swore to do when he took the oath of office as President; that future Presidents should not obstruct justice, as President Clinton did for seven months as he admittedly deceived the American people and those associated with the investigation; if these are the precedents Congress sets, if these are the standards future Presidents then live by, we'd need not fear our actions."
Michael R. Beschloss, a Presidential historian, said that it would take time before it was apparent which side was right.
"Within a few years, Americans will probably reach a consensus on whether this was legitimate or whether members of Congress were angry with the President because of things that went beyond the articles of impeachment," Mr. Beschloss said. "The question is how this whole year stands up in history."
Former Senator Warren B. Rudman, who has been following the debate from his home in New Hampshire, said he was worried by the direction his fellow Republicans were taking because he thought the Constitution reserved impeachment for official misconduct.
But Mr. Rudman said he did not foresee dire consequences for the Presidency. "If a George W. Bush or a Bill Bradley gets elected next time," he said, "what has happened during this horrible time will not have any effect on their Presidency."
Mr. Rudman continued: "This country has been through crises with Presidents time after time. People always say the country's going to collapse. A fresh face with a new set of ideas changes everything."
Marshall Wittmann, a scholar at the Heritage Foundation, said the consequences of a Clinton impeachment might have been more severe at a different time in the nation's history -- before the end of the cold war, for instance, or during an economic crisis.
Nowadays, "Washington just doesn't matter as much as it once did," he said, "and neither does the Presidency."
Douglas Brinkley, a historian at the University of New Orleans, agreed with the notion that in the prosperous, peaceful 1990's, the Presidency might not be the office it once was. "When we reflect back at this time," he said, "people like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and Ted Turner may be remembered more than Bill Clinton."
"But the Presidency has only been diminished temporarily," Mr. Brinkley said. The time will come, he added, when the President of the United States will once again be the dominant figure in the world.
The main consequence of the Clinton Presidency, Mr. Brinkley said, may be that no President will leave a historical record. Knowing that they they are subject to incessant investigations, Presidents will not be able to afford to keep diaries or tape-record their recollections, lest they be subpoenaed.
"Presidents will be careful not to leave tracks," he said, "and history and historians will suffer."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS IMPEACHMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WITNESSES (76%); HISTORY (73%); JUDGES (73%); GRAND JURY (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ETHICS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (91%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); LAMAR SMITH (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); WILLIAM D DELAHUNT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



327 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon's Hopes for Major Budget Increase Wane, but Officials Vow to Fight

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13

 BODY:
The Pentagon has asked President Clinton for the largest increase in military spending since the first four years of Ronald Reagan's cold war buildup, but the Administration has balked at the size of the request, having already pledged to preserve budget surpluses for the Social Security system. 
 After years of dwindling resources following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Defense Department officials express hopes that Mr. Clinton will propose the Pentagon's first real increase in military spending since 1991, when the military budget spiked slightly for the Persian Gulf war.
But their hopes for a large increase in next year's budget -- stoked by encouraging words from Mr. Clinton himself -- have waned in recent weeks as a White House battling impeachment also scrambles to find ways to support Social Security and balance competing demands from other agencies, Administration and defense officials said.
The Pentagon's concerns have become so acute that Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen and Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, delayed departure on separate trips to Europe this week. Instead, they will stay in Washington to press their case in pivotal budget meetings at the White House on Monday.
"We need to fight for our money," a defense official said today.
In a meeting with Mr. Clinton last Monday, Mr. Cohen, General Shelton and the chiefs of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps argued for at least a $10 billion increase in spending in next year's budget and a $112 billion increase over the next six years, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
Next year's increase -- to pay for everything from spare parts to raises for the troops to the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia -- would represent a roughly 4 percent increase above the Department of Defense's current $258 billion budget, the largest annual increase since 1984. Between now and 2006, the annual increases would grow steadily to $25 billion a year.
But Mr. Cohen and the chiefs left that meeting without a firm pledge for any increase. And while Mr. Clinton expressed support in principle for addressing problems with the military's readiness, the officials said it now seemed unlikely that the President would propose more than a modest increase, if any, when he unveils his budget proposal in February for the 2000 fiscal year, which begins next October.
"I think there is a lot of sympathy for their needs over there," an Administration official said. "But I don't think that even in a perfect world, they would get every penny they're asking for."
The wrangling has created a political problem for Mr. Clinton, who already faces intensifying pressure from Republicans in Congress to increase military spending. After inviting Mr. Cohen and the chiefs to submit requests for more money, Mr. Clinton will now face criticism for giving anything less than the amount they have calculated as necessary to keep the nation's military fit.
"There's been a spirit of expectation built up by a lot of folks that have heard what the President's been saying," one military officer said.
Gen. Dennis J. Reimer, the Army's Chief of Staff, described last week's meeting with the President as an "honest exchange," and he conceded that the Pentagon's demands had to be weighed against the constraints of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997.
"These are complex issues," he told reporters at a breakfast on Thursday. "There's more involved than defense, obviously."
At the same time, General Reimer reiterated his belief that the Army needed $5 billion a year above its current $64 billion budget "to do what we need to do the way it needs to be done." Without adequate resources, he warned, the Administration needed either to reconsider its national security strategy or "accept a hollowness in the force that we're not willing to accept."
Mr. Clinton's aides emphasized that the President had not yet made a decision on the Pentagon's budget. He must first decide, they said, how to propose using the projected surpluses in the Federal budget to avert the looming insolvency in the Social Security system. And then, they said, he could use any leftover surplus to pay for an increase for the military.
In the meantime, the Office of Management and Budget has pressed Mr. Cohen and other Pentagon officials to pay for at least some of their $112 billion request -- which Mr. Cohen's office has already pared from $148 billion -- with savings wrung out of the existing budget levels.
In fact, $5 billion to $7 billion in savings resulting from lower-than-expected inflation and oil costs are expected to cover the raises and improved retirement benefits that Mr. Clinton has already touted, in a speech on Veterans Day and in an appearance before troops at Osan Air Force Base in South Korea.
Military leaders, led by General Shelton, have made improving pay and benefits -- including a raise of 3.9 percent this year and 4.4 percent next year -- a top priority. Without them, they say, it will become even more difficult to attract and keep the most qualified people.
"I've approved pay raises that will significantly reduce the gap between military and civilian pay," Mr. Clinton told an assembly of troops at Osan on Nov. 22, who responded with hearty applause.
"I ought to quit while I'm ahead," Mr. Clinton added.
Military spending has declined sharply since President Reagan's buildup of weaponry in the 1980's. In today's dollars, adjusted for inflation, the Pentagon's budget has dropped 36 percent from a peak of $403 billion in 1985 to $258 billion now, not counting the Department of Energy's spending on nuclear weapons.
As a percentage of the Federal budget, military spending is now, at just under 15 percent, as low as it has been since the end of World War II.
This "peace dividend" largely resulted from two things: the cut in military personnel from 2.4 million soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines to just over 1.4 million today and the ability to put off the purchase of new major weapons following the infusion under Mr. Reagan.
Now, Pentagon officials say, the fighter jets and ships and tanks bought in the Reagan years need replacing or at least lots of spare parts. And the smaller forces are being asked to do more, from boxing in Saddam Hussein to responding to natural disasters like Hurricane Mitch to peacekeeping in Bosnia. (Ten percent of the Pentagon's $112 billion request alone would pay for keeping the troops in Bosnia.)
"To me those are extremely valuable things," the new Secretary of the Navy, Richard Danzig, said of the peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. "They also create a lot of wear and tear and burden on our resources and our people."
In recent months, Mr. Cohen and the chiefs have become increasingly vocal in warning about what they call an erosion of resources and the resulting strain on troop strength, training and morale.
In August, Gen. David A. Bramlett, commander of the Army's Forces Command at Fort McPherson, Ga., warned that the Army had to divert money from things like base maintenance to pay for training meant to keep soldiers battle-ready.
"We cannot operate within current funding levels and have the viable fighting force we want to project into the next century," General Bramlett wrote in a memorandum that ended up being widely circulated.
In September, the nation's top commanders met with Mr. Clinton at Fort McNair here in Washington and laid out what amounted to a plea for more money to address the strains.
A week later, Mr. Clinton responded with a letter to Mr. Cohen that many in the Pentagon viewed as a firmer commitment to new resources than it is turning out to be. "We need to consider additional steps that may be needed to preserve the quality of the American military," the President said, though he pledged no specific increase.
Though officials declined to detail how they would spend the increases, beyond bolstering pay and retirement benefits, they said the extra money would not go for large new weapons as much as for more mundane equipment, spare parts, jet fuel and other things necessary for training.
"I need to fix the unsexy stuff," said Gen. Charles C. Krulak, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, who has been one of the only commanders openly critical of Mr. Clinton's previous military budgets.
At least some of the money would speed up the purchase of some of the Pentagon's biggest weapons programs, including the Air Force's F-22 and the Navy's F/A-18 fighter jets.
Some Administration officials and independent analysts said the Pentagon was pleading poverty without having squeezed enough fat out of its notoriously resistant bureaucracy or having reconsidered any of its expensive modernization programs, like those fighters.
They noted that since the end of the gulf war the United States had not had to confront any new threat to its security that would justify a large increase in spending. They also pointed out that efforts to trim the bureaucracy -- like last year's Defense Reform Initiative, which was to save $6 billion a year -- had so far failed to produce significant savings.
Michael O'Hanlon, an analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said that almost a decade after the cold war, the Pentagon still had not learned to adjust to fiscal constraints, using the opportunity of a relatively peaceful world to create a smaller, more efficient military.
"The Pentagon hasn't made the cuts," he said. "People just waited for the first opportunity to ask for what they wanted all along."

GRAPHIC: Graph "KEEPING TRACK: Military Spending" tracks the Pentagon's annual budgets, excluding the Department of Energy's spending on nuclear weapons, by fiscal year adjusted for inflation since 1976.
(Source: Department of Defense)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



328 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: Union Spending Inquiry Tries to Separate Lavish From Illegal

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY and STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Every year at this time, Charles Hughes, the longtime president of one of New York City's largest municipal union locals, would stage a Christmas party so lavish that certain details lingered for months in the minds of his guests. Roast pig, sides of beef, eye-level mounds of shrimp and an unlimited bar -- all in the refined setting of a hotel in midtown Manhattan.
Mr. Hughes paid for the annual feast with the dues of the 22,000 low-paid school cafeteria aides and crossing guards who belonged to his local. For the most part, they were not invited; this party was intended for hundreds of politicians, union executives and people who just knew people. And when these people headed for the exits, they were handed a small gift: a teddy bear with a ribbon bearing the name of their generous host. 
 The teddy bears are now relics; there will be no Christmas party at the Sheraton New York for Local 372 this year. Mr. Hughes was expelled a few months ago after an internal judicial panel concluded that he had defrauded the union of more than $1.7 million.
In addition, District Council 37, the umbrella organization overseeing his local and 55 others, is the focus of investigations by the Manhattan District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, into allegations of kickbacks, vote fraud and embezzlement.
Expensive travel and various perquisites have been a part of the district council's culture for years, former and current union officials say, but there always used to be a level of restraint. But in recent years, they say, the boundaries of propriety became blurred. More and more, flamboyance and excessive spending came to define the city's largest municipal union; more and more, it was all right to travel first class, hold $1 million conferences and jet around the world.
Now investigators are trying to identify the line at which spending by union officials crosses from profligacy into illegality. Mr. Hughes hired a circus and well-known rock bands for his many union-related gatherings at a resort in the Catskills, including one conference that union officials say cost $1.4 million.
Several union leaders and their friends spent a week in the Caribbean on a cruise ship for a conference sponsored by the council's education fund. Albert A. Diop, a union leader best known these days for using a penthouse paid for with union dues, frequently took union-related trips to destinations that included Japan, Italy and Zimbabwe.
There are many other examples. Robert Taylor, the former president of a local representing motor vehicle operators, spent $92,000 for a surf-and-turf Christmas party in Great Neck on Long Island. The district council sent more than 700 people to a recent convention in Hawaii.
And all these perquisites came on top of ample salaries for union executives; Stanley Hill, the council's longtime executive director, was paid $292,000 a year, Mr. Hughes, $241,000 and Mr. Diop, $209,000.
"The whole thing is sickening," a cafeteria worker named Douglas Murrell said about his local's leader, Mr. Hughes. Unions have had a history of corruption, he said. "But for someone to be dishonest with the little people, the people who don't make much. . . ."
He did not finish the thought.
This extravagant spending was often financed with the dues of 120,000 city employees, who on average are paid $25,000 a year. In Mr. Hughes's local, the typical member works part time and receives just $10,000 to $12,000 a year. Many pay about $600 in annual dues, an amount that Lee Saunders, the trustee recently named to run the district council, said was clearly excessive.
Mr. Saunders said he was taking steps to end the lavishness. "Let's say I put a moratorium on it," he said. "Conferences are important, but they don't need to be excessive. And I've reduced the travel of members going to conferences. It is going to be within reason."
Some union officials compared this spending to that by any large corporation. Out-of-town trips improve the morale of dedicated employees, they contend, and lavish parties create relationships that can help in future business dealings.
Whatever his failures, they say, Mr. Hughes was a master at exploiting the political contacts he cultivated to the advantage of his members, who have received unusually good benefits for part-time workers. Mr. Hughes's lawyer adds that he was doing good deeds that have been misunderstood.
But Herman Benson, the secretary-treasurer of the Association for Union Democracy, dismissed the argument: "You develop a certain culture that the thing to do is to live high on the hog, just like corporate executives might do. But the thing that really counts at the bargaining table is the ability of the union to have some power -- the power to rally your members."
Mr. Benson said parties like those sponsored by Mr. Hughes are intended to send one message to the employer: "I'm the man in charge, so you and I can decide these things. Don't worry about these jerks that I represent."
For many years, Victor Gotbaum was the district council's executive director, but that title somehow undersold his considerable influence and intimidating style. He frightened the presidents of his local unions as much as he annoyed city officials, all the while maintaining a reputation for integrity.
But Mr. Gotbaum and his allies acknowledge that they took union-related trips to other states and countries; it was part business, part pleasure. And when he stepped down in 1986, the district council hired him for several years as a high-paid consultant.
His successor, Mr. Hill, employed a decidedly different management style: more laid-back, more accommodating to the desires of Mr. Hughes and other local presidents. For example, he approved $685,000 in overtime for Mr. Hughes, who claimed to have worked 35 hours of overtime every week for four consecutive years.
Mr. Hill later maintained that the overtime had been approved by the executive board of Mr. Hughes's local. In fact, he has often said that he could do little about the spending practices of the council's 56 locals, noting that they had extensive autonomy and that he did not have the power to audit them.
 
The Job of Restoring A Union's Reputation
Two weeks ago, the district council's parent union, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, forced Mr. Hill to take an unpaid leave, giving his replacement, Mr. Saunders, the task of restoring the reputation of a union once revered as a model of enlightened unionism.
"Our primary responsibility is to work for the betterment of our members," Mr. Saunders said. "You've got to be very, very careful that you don't cross the line into thinking that the institution is you."
John Socha, the president of a local representing 900 workers at the Queens Public Library, agreed. "My members are mad as hell," he said. "It's like the film 'Network.' They're opening up windows and yelling: 'I'm mad as hell. I don't want to take it anymore.' "
At the root of some of that anger is the lack of any strong connection between the union's members and how their money was often spent. For example, several years ago Mr. Hughes began to champion the cause of Ethiopian Jews in Israel. He contributed an estimated $30,000 from his local's treasury to Bar-Ilan University in Israel and raised money from other sources for scholarships and cultural programs.
In 1995, the university gave Mr. Hughes an honorary doctorate, allowing him to refer to himself as Dr. Hughes. The school also established the Charles Hughes Center for Ethiopian Academic Advancement.
Over the years, Mr. Hughes developed a reputation for having a global view; he went on a "peace mission" to Nicaragua, developed a "sister cities" arrangement with Rome, and went on disaster-relief assignments to the Caribbean.
Gerald L. Shargel, a lawyer for Mr. Hughes, defended his client against charges of extravagance. "Charlie traveled a great deal, but Charlie traveled for the purpose of doing good deeds and good work," Mr. Shargel said. "He was deeply involved with bringing Ethiopian Jews to Israel. He helped bring children out of the former Soviet Union."
The way union officials traveled often depended on their personality and the input they received from their members. In August, the parent union held its convention in Hawaii. Although the choice of locations may sound exotic, union officials say it made sense: the parent union's members there could use help in their fight with state government, and Hawaii's weak economy could use the extra business.
Ray Markey, the president of Local 1930, which represents 1,850 library workers in Manhattan and the Bronx, said his local usually authorized sending six delegates and six alternates to the annual event. "This time we didn't send the alternates," he said. But Mr. Diop, the president of the local representing 23,000 clerks working in the city's agencies and hospitals, sent 300 people to the conference in Hawaii.
 
Costly Conferences At a Catskill Resort
For all the globe-trotting, Mr. Hughes, Mr. Diop and their guests and supporters spent a lot of time at the Friar Tuck Inn, a resort in the Catskill Mountains two hours northwest of New York City.
How the union came to choose the Friar Tuck as its home away from home is unclear, but the relationship goes back many years. The resort has a medieval motif; its Robin Hood lounge has an offtrack betting teletheater, and its Abbey dining room can seat 1,500 people.
Mr. Hughes routinely invited politicians, other union executives and hundreds of his local's members and their families to the resort for weeklong educational or political conferences.
"Nothing was more lavish than a Charlie Hughes party," said one high-ranking union executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "There were all sorts of entertainment. They'd have five or six name acts, people you've heard of. They'd have circuses."
Only later did people learn how costly these conferences actually were. One of the Friar Tuck conferences cost $1.4 million.
 
Free Spending And Growing Debt
The free spending became all the more glaring when it was revealed that the debt of Mr. Hughes's local soared to $10 million in 1997, from $5 million the previous year -- in part because of the conferences and the $1.7 million he was found to have taken for his own use. That spending included $329,000 for credit card purchases at Victoria's Secret and Bloomingdale's, among other stores.
Defending Mr. Hughes's use of the Friar Tuck, Mr. Shargel said: "This conference was designed in part to benefit inner-city children. It also had educational purposes. It helped shop stewards and union activists. The sad irony is Charlie now finds himself scorned for doing what he thought was God's work."
Past and current law enforcement officials say that when labor leaders spend extravagantly in ways that do not benefit union members, they might be vulnerable to charges of embezzlement or fraud.
Walter Mack, former director of the Federal Organized Crime Strike Force in Manhattan, said it was important to determine whether the board rubber-stamped the union president's desires and whether it scrutinized the expenditure -- maybe it determined after careful consideration that an official could take his girlfriend on a trip because every one else was bringing a spouse.
"You have to look at: was this a reasonable expenditure?" Mr. Mack said. "Does this show the union is being run in the interest of its members or its officers? It could be embezzlement. It could be mail fraud. It could be violation of the Federal statute requiring that officials keep the members informed on what's going on in the union. It's a very fact-specific type of situation."
Now, while investigators from the Manhattan District Attorney's office pore over the travel and expense records that have been subpoenaed from the union, Mr. Saunders has ordered that audits be conducted in each of the 56 local unions.
Meanwhile, a much more modest Christmas party is planned this year for Mr. Hughes's local. "I don't think you have to have a party at the Sheraton," Mr. Saunders said. "There's plenty of space at the union headquarters." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; DISTRICT COUNCIL 37 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BRIBERY; EMBEZZLEMENT; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); EMBEZZLEMENT (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); BRIBERY (74%); BEEF (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); CRUISES (70%); COUNTIES (70%); SPONSORSHIP (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HUGHES, CHARLES; MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY) CHARLES HUGHES (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



329 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Impeachment Questions Follow Presidential Trip
President Clinton reluctantly interrupted his efforts to rescue the Middle East peace plan to answer questions on an impeachment vote in Congress that he said he could not control. A1
 
Hillary Rodham Clinton received a warm welcome while visiting Neve Shalom, Israel, an Arab-Israeli village, to plead the case for a land-for-security plan. That plan is now seen as much more her husband's priority than that of the Israeli Prime Minister. A11
 
Russia's Institutional Poverty
State institutions in Russia have fallen prey to the country's shrinking budgets and rising inflation, squeezing out money to pay for food, clothes and medicine at prisons, hospitals and orphanages. At one women's prison, the official daily food allowance is 65 kopeks, which is about three cents. A3
 
New Effort for Nazi Victims
Germany's banks and industrial conglomerates are urgently trying to devise a broad plan to compensate Holocaust survivors and Poles, Russians and other Europeans enslaved by the Nazis. The effort is spurred by Germany's new Social Democratic Government and a huge trans-Atlantic bank merger. A10
 
Another Slaying in Iran
A third dissident writer who disappeared in Iran in the last month has been found dead, and hopes that the country might be moving toward a more tolerant new day are giving way to fears of darker times ahead. Although the attacks have outraged many people in Iran and prompted calls for swift Government action, the main effect has been to expose President Mohammad Khatami's relative impotence. A6
 
U.S. Issues Terrorist Alert
United States Embassies in four Persian Gulf countries warned of a "strong possibility" that terrorists might attempt an attack against one or more American targets in the region in the coming month. The warning was unusually precise and was accompanied by a show of particular concern. A7
 
Church Group's Growing Pains
The World Council of Churches, an organization dedicated to promoting Christian unity, has found itself in the unusual position of balking at accepting a new member. The controversy over an African church that allows clergy to have more than one wife illustrates the challenges facing the council as it attempts to keep the global ecumenical movement alive. A8
 
Reforms for Germany's Greens
Germany's Greens, holding their first party congress since entering Government, adopted reforms to bring unruly ecologist members into line with the leadership. Top Green Party officials hailed the creation of a formal forum for coordinating party policy as a way to end disputes that have dogged the party's 18-year history. A10
 
NATIONAL A18-28
 
President Clinton Deflects Calls for His Resignation
President Clinton rebuffed Republican calls for him to admit to lying under oath and said flatly that he had not committed perjury. Mr. Clinton deflected suggestions that he should step down, saying he has no intention of resigning. A1
 
Republican governors, state party leaders and strategists around the country said the party's march toward impeachment would cause no lasting political damage. A1
 
The pressure intensifies daily on Jim Leach of Iowa, one of 20 or 30 Congressmen, most of them Republicans, who have remained publicly uncommitted on whether Mr. Clinton should be impeached. A25
 
There may or may not be enough rebellious Republicans to stop impeachment on the House floor this week. But the real question is whether there are enough of them willing to break with the rules set by their leaders for the handling of the impeachment vote. A27
 
In opposing a censure of President Clinton, many Republicans argued that the Constitution contains no words allowing Congress to take that step. Perhaps not, but that has not stopped lawmakers of yesteryear. A28
Bid for Statehood Rebuffed
 
Puerto Ricans rebuffed for a second time in six years their Governor's efforts to win statehood by giving the most votes in a status referendum to an option that maintains the island's commonwealth relationship with the United States. A18
 
More Money Sought by Military
The Pentagon has asked the President for the largest increase in military spending since the first four years of Ronald Reagan's cold war buildup, but the Administration has balked at the size of the request, having already pledged to preserve budget surpluses for the Social Security system. A22
 
Kerrey Decides Not to Run
Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska announced that he would not run for President in 2000, saying he had concluded that his talents could be best applied on Capitol Hill. Mr. Kerrey, a 55-year-old Democrat who was briefly a candidate in the 1992 Presidential contest, said Vice President Al Gore's strong lead in the race for the nomination influenced his decision not to make a second bid. A20
 
Victims of Domestic Violence
The killings of a Seattle woman and her child have struck a nerve among advocates for the victims of domestic violence, because the woman had carefully followed procedures to insure their safety, and yet the system failed them. A18
 
Serious Crime Lower Again
Serious crimes dropped another 5 percent in the first half of this year, extending a six-year trend, the Federal Bureau of Investigation reported today. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Adult Form of Diabetes Rising Sharply in Children
The number of children with Type 2 diabetes, an incurable disease that can cause kidney failure, blindness and poor circulation and that occurred mostly during middle age or later, has risen sharply, as childhood obesity has become an epidemic in America. A1
 
Drawing a Line on Spending
Lavish holiday parties once thrown by the expelled president of one of the city's largest municipal union locals have come under scrutiny, as investigators try to identify the line at which spending by union officials crosses the line from profligacy into illegality. B1
 
Vacco Expected to Concede
Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco, the Republican incumbent who has spent the last six weeks fighting in court to prevent the certification of Eliott L. Spitzer as his successor, is expected to concede on Monday. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Landmark Expands Downward
Carnegie Hall is going underground, turning a subterranean recital hall from 1891 into a high-tech performance space for small operas and other productions. A1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
Giants Crush Broncos' Hopes
A 20-16 Giants victory over the Broncos, three weeks before the end of the regular season, broke Denver's unbeaten streak and toppled the Super Bowl champions in the biggest upset of the NFL season. D1
 
OBITUARIES B8-9
 
Morris K. Udall
A liberal conscience of the House of Representatives for 30 years and an advocate for environmental protection, he was 76. B9
 
Lawton Chiles
A homespun Florida politician who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, he was 68. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-12
 
Japan to Take Over Bank
The Japanese Government said that it would take over the Nippon Credit Bank in the second nationalization of a large and failing bank this fall. C2
 
Windows Alternative Planned
Sun Microsystems and Oracle, Microsoft's rivals, plan to announce today a joint effort to make corporate computer users less reliant on Microsoft's Windows. C6
 
Release of Program Blueprint
I.B.M. plans to make available today the original programmer's instructions for a new mail program that can be used to store messages with a high level of security. C5
 
Aetna's Risky Expansion
Aetna, by swallowing two sizable competitors, is vastly increasing its power and making a risky bet that it can dominate the nation's health care system. C1
 
G.E. of Britain in Talks
General Electric of Britain is in intense merger talks with a number of global companies and expects a decision soon, the company said. C10
 
School Papers' New Role
In Alabama towns hit by urbanization and school consolidation, and where many newspapers have closed, some high school papers have become the source of local news. C7
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Those missing magic words; death in Iran; the science of silicone implants; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Tom Wolfe's new novel.
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E10
Weather A29
Crossword B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (77%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC BANK & TRUST CO (55%); ATLANTIC BANK NA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRISONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HOLOCAUST (68%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



330 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Make Famine Relief in North Korea a Priority

 BODY:

To the Editor:
A Dec. 10 front-page article, "In North Korean Hunger, Legacy Is Stunted Children" should end any doubt that this situation is a growing human disaster. 
 The urgent question is how the United States and the international community should act to prevent it from becoming an even greater catastrophe.
The United States must clarify its policy toward North Korea. Are we going to continue to preoccupy ourselves with nuclear issues at the expense of current human suffering?
If saving lives is our priority, then it is urgent that we end our economic sanctions against North Korea and allow the free flow of food and medication.
 
JOHN H. KIM
New York, Dec. 10, 1998
 
The writer is a lawyer.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMINE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); WRITERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



331 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Is No Failure

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Clinton Meets 48 in Congress on Future of Social Security" (news article, Dec. 10): 
 In discussing ways of saving Social Security, we should recognize that the current budget is balanced in part because it includes as revenue Social Security taxes collected in excess of payments to recipients, that the Federal debt is not eliminated by a current balanced budget, and that the reserve to make future payments to recipients is the United States Treasury's obligation.
At some point in the 21st century, current Social Security taxes and the reserve will be insufficient to pay eligible recipients.
Prior to that time, the Treasury could increase the interest it is obliged to pay on the Social Security tax deposits. The rate of interest could then be adjusted from time to time to maintain the viability of the system. This flexible interest rate need not be the only answer. But it could be a part of the answer.
 
JACK H. HAMILTON
Lakeville, Conn., Dec. 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCIAL SECURITY (95%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



332 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Patriots Yield Some Ground To Legislators Over Stadium

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 13

 BODY:
The New England Patriots yielded to a rebellion by Connecticut lawmakers today and agreed to concessions in the proposed contract for moving the team to Hartford, prompting legislative leaders to predict that the deal would sail through the General Assembly in a special session on Tuesday.
Patriots officials had maintained as recently as Wednesday that they had given all the ground they planned to when they negotiated the original proposal with Gov. John G. Rowland last month. 
 The legislative leaders met at the Governor's mansion for more than five hours today, hashing out the fine points of the new agreement, which the Patriots' owner, Robert K. Kraft, endorsed over crowd noise as he talked to the Governor from a skybox in St. Louis, where his team was playing the Rams.
The new terms reduce the state's potential payments if luxury seats and suites go unsold, from $17.5 million a year to $13 million a year. Connecticut officials said today that considering inflation, the state's potential liability for the guarantees over the 30 years of the lease had been $1.4 billion -- a figure that had never been disclosed but that now has been cut by $356 million.
"We've made huge, huge movement on this," Governor Rowland said this afternoon on the front porch of the Executive Mansion. "Is it a good deal for him? It probably is -- I don't think he'd be doing it, otherwise. But I think it's a darned good deal for us."
The Governor said that besides reducing the state guarantees, Mr. Kraft would slash the price of the stadium's 6,000 club seats by $1,000 a year, to $4,000 per seat per season, which state officials said would increase the likelihood of a sellout.
A consultant's report prepared for the state concluded that the original prices for boxes and club seats would have been, on average, among the highest in the National Football League.
The Patriots also agreed to pay any overruns if the cost of building the stadium exceeds $375 million, and agreed to pay a tougher penalty if they leave Connecticut before the 30-year lease is up.
Governor Rowland and Mr. Kraft reached a consensus on the changes during a meeting at the Capitol Friday night. Apparently no hard feelings resulted. As Mr. Kraft left the Capitol, he said, "I like doing business in Connecticut."
On a talk show broadcast today by a Hartford television station, Mr. Kraft explained his decision to entertain a less lucrative package. "Wherever we try to do business, we try to be flexible and reasonable," Mr. Kraft said on WVIT (Channel 30), "because I don't want to do this deal if the key players and the key legislative leaders, the citizens of Connecticut and the Governor don't feel this is a good deal for them."
The Senate President pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan, said the changes were the result of pressure from rank-and-file legislators, who in turn had received many complaints from constituents.
"For the first time today, I think I feel confident that it will pass in the Senate," Senator Sullivan said. "What we can say to our colleagues is that we listened, we took those issues back to the conversation and they got results. More importantly, what our colleagues can say to their constituents is, 'We listened to you, too, and we made the changes you needed to see in this deal to make it the best for Connecticut.' "
The Speaker of the House, Thomas D. Ritter, said the changes were possible because Connecticut residents had expressed such enthusiasm for the Patriots, in part by requesting thousands of season-ticket applications.
The reduction in the luxury guarantees cuts the state's potential expense for the total project over 30 years to about $1.5 billion, from $1.9 billion.
That includes $1 billion for the guarantees, $375 million to build the stadium, a $115 million fund to pay for major repairs and $15 million for a training center to be built somewhere in Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (52%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; KRAFT, ROBERT K; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) ROBERT K KRAFT (90%); JOHN G ROWLAND (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



333 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
State's Quality of Life Is Declining, Report Says

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
The quality of life in Connecticut continues to decline, despite the state's economic revival, according to a new report to be released today.
Child abuse, violent crimes and unemployment worsened in 1996, the most recent year for available statistics, according to the Fordham Institute for Innovation in Social Policy, which produces an annual assessment of the nation's well being known as the Index of Social Health. 
 Connecticut earned 43 out of a possible 100 points on the index, which has monitored state figures since 1970 in 11 social problem areas.
The latest index marks the eighth consecutive year the index has been under 45.
The 1996 index showed improvements in several areas, but the overall numbers remained worse than the previous two decades.
The state's high point, according to the index, was 74 points in 1973. Only four categories showed long-term improvement: infant mortality, teen-age births, average weekly wages and affordable housing.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION IN SOCIAL POLICY FORDHAM INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION IN SOCIAL POLICY FORDHAM INSTITUTE FOR INNOVATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT CHILD ABUSE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (88%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



334 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 14, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: First Lady Starts Israel Tour at Cross-Cultural Oasis

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: NEVE SHALOM, Israel, Dec. 13

 BODY:
It took an Arab-Israeli village to provide Hillary Rodham Clinton with the ideal backdrop for her first appearance here, pleading the case to the Israeli public for the land-for-security plan that is now seen here as much more her husband's priority than the Israeli Prime Minister's.
This tiny planned community of 30 families an hour outside Jerusalem is one of the country's few experiments in cross-cultural living. It has a bilingual school that has won international honors and a carefully maintained ethnic balance of Arabs and Jews, all of them Israeli citizens. The self-described "oasis of peace" was chosen as a symbol of the possibility of reconciliation between Israel and the Palestinians, the goal of the agreement brokered by President Clinton six weeks ago in Wye Mills, Md. 
 Flattered by the recognition, the town school draped a big hand-drawn "It Takes A Village" poster, a reference to the title of her recent book, behind the podium where Mrs. Clinton made her nationally televised remarks.
"I'm very grateful for the hard work that the Prime Minister and Chairman Arafat and my husband did at Wye that helped move us closer to fulfilling a dream of peace between Israelis and Palestinians, despite the setbacks that come when peace is being pursued," Mrs. Clinton said. Sara Netanyahu, the Prime Minister's wife, sat beside her.
"The strong belief that peace will prevail must once again be enforced," Mrs. Clinton said.
Arriving by White House limousine about 4 A.M. Washington time for her first stop, Mrs. Clinton impressed local people with her stamina and poise. Later in the day, she accompanied Mr. Clinton to a memorial gathering at the Mount of Olives grave site of the slain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and a Hanukkah candle-lighting ceremony at the Israeli presidential residence. She also attended Mr. Clinton's speeches to Israeli youth leaders and a state banquet.
But her independent itinerary before that was distinctly her own: an advertisement for her vision of multicultural education and community-based child-raising, and a carefully aimed appeal to ordinary Israelis on behalf of the American-brokered peace efforts.
Her visit to Neve Shalom was followed by a visit to the oncology ward of a Jerusalem children's hospital financed by an American Jewish women's group, where Orthodox Jewish patients and Palestinians from East Jerusalem receive state-of-the-art cancer therapy. Mrs. Clinton moved on to the headquarters of a home preschool program that was started in Israel to meet the needs of poor Arab and recent Jewish immigrant families, a program she helped adopt for use in rural Arkansas 12 years ago.
With fresh-scrubbed schoolchildren waving paper banners and earnest young teachers discussing the frontiers of pedagogy, the scene at Neve Shalom seemed benignly archetypal for a Hillary Clinton visit. Three kindergarten children -- Muhammed Najar, 4, an Israeli Arab Muslim; Kerem Ben-Yeshai, 5, an Israeli Jew, and Mouna Boulos, 4, an Israeli Arab Christian -- stood in their classroom before a phalanx of cameras and solemnly lit a Ramadan lamp, a menorah, and, with an electric switch, a little tabletop Christmas tree.
And it was no coincidence that the banners held aloft at Mrs. Clinton's arrival were adorned not with national emblems but with hastily crayoned flowers and doves. The original plan was to greet Mrs. Clinton with real flags, residents said, but after fuller contemplation of the spectacle, the event's planners had second thoughts.
"They were going to have three flags, then they decided they didn't want Palestinian flags, so they decided on no flags," Laila Hasuna, an Arabic teacher at the Neve Shalom school, said with a wry smile.
It was widely presumed here that the ban on Palestinian flag-waving was imposed mainly to protect Mrs. Clinton, who, on the strength of one offhand comment this year, earned a reputation among Israelis as a back-room advocate of independence for the West Bank and Gaza, which she is scheduled to visit tomorrow.
Speaking in May via satellite to a gathering of European teen-agers, Mrs. Clinton said she thought it was "in the long-term interests of the Middle East for Palestine to be a state and for it to be a state that is responsible for its citizens' well-being, a state that has responsibility for providing education and health care and economic opportunity to its citizens, a state that has to accept the responsibility of governing."
This seeming endorsement of statehood and her use of the officially taboo term "Palestine" was condemned by American Jewish organizations and quickly disavowed by the White House. During her tour today, Israeli journalists shouted questions on Palestinian independence but were ignored.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 14 about Hillary Rodham Clinton's visit to Israel with President Clinton misidentified the site where Yitzhak Rabin, the former Israeli Prime Minister, is buried and where the Clintons attended a memorial gathering. It is on Mount Herzl, not the Mount of Olives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton was surrounded by Jewish and Arab children yesterday during her visit to Neve Shalom, Israel. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ; ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); HANUKKAH (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CANCER (64%); ONCOLOGY (64%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1998



335 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Shell Plans a Big Revamping and Charge

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
As the lowest prices in 12 years continue to roil the oil industry, the giant Royal Dutch/ Shell Group announced today that it would sell 40 percent of its chemicals businesses and take $4.5 billion in charges as part of a sweeping reorganization.
The announcement by Mark Moody-Stuart, the company's chairman, to an analysts' meeting here was the latest sign of upheaval in the industry after proposed acquisitions by British Petroleum of Amoco and Exxon of Mobil. The cutbacks, which will include job losses, are expected to affect Shell operations as far afield as Texas, Venezuela, Britain, Norway and France. 
 Describing the measures as a "clearing out of the cupboard" at the world's largest publicly traded oil company, Mr. Moody-Stuart declined, however, to specify how many of the company's 105,000 workers were likely to lose their jobs in the reorganization. Through its Shell Oil subsidiary, based in Houston, Royal Dutch/Shell employs about 20,000 workers in the United States.
The American unit has formed a joint venture with Texaco under which all but one of its refineries and all its gasoline stations have been combined under a company called Equilon Enterprises in the Midwest and West. Shell has also formed another joint venture with Texaco and Saudi Refining Inc. to combine its refining and marketing in the East and the Gulf Coast states. About 7,000 of the 20,000 employees are part of the two ventures.
Before today's meeting, there had been speculation that Mr. Moody-Stuart might use the occasion to announce a merger, possibly with Chevron. But he seemed to rule out immediate merger plans, saying: "We have a great deal to do in our own shop. We have looked at merger possibilities and will continue to look at such possibilities, and if the right opportunity arises, we will act."
"But we are large enough to be the leading company on our own without a merger," he added.
Plummeting oil prices, compounded by falling demand from Asia's troubled economies, have cut into oil-company profits this year. Earnings at Shell, for instance, fell 31 percent in the first nine months of this year, to $4.3 billion, compared with results in the period a year earlier. The price here of Brent crude oil remained just below $10 a barrel today, compared with a high last year of close to $25. In New York, oil for January delivery rose 50 cents, to $11.29 a barrel.
Mr. Moody-Stuart said the $4.5 billion in charges would be applied against fourth-quarter earnings, part of a plan to reduce annual costs by $2.5 billion by 2001. The calculations, he said, were based on expectations that oil prices might remain around $10 a barrel next year but would average $14 a barrel over the next five years. A year ago, the forecast was for $18 a barrel on average.
Shell's corporate cutbacks are intended to raise the company's return on capital investment from the 9 percent it posted in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30. But here, too, Mr. Moody-Stuart trimmed back expectations to 14 percent from 15 percent forecast last year because of the cutbacks.
"We have had to make tough choices, but although we have made some very big cuts, with an $11 billion global spending program, we still have plenty of room for growth," he said, adding that this put Shell "ahead of the competition."
Analysts had mixed views on the announcement, with some saying that Shell had fallen short of what was expected and others arguing that the cost reductions were in line with those envisioned in the Exxon-Mobil deal.
Jay Wilson of J. P. Morgan Securities in New York said that with its announcement, Royal Dutch/Shell had "reconfirmed their commitment to get their own house in order" and had taken "a very good step in the right direction." But he added, "People will want to see the numbers on the bottom line."
Worldwide, the markets had something of a mixed reaction. Shares of Royal Dutch/Shell rose 1.6 percent in Amsterdam. By contrast, the American depository receipts of the Shell Transport and Trading Company, whose stock has plummeted 20 percent this year, fell $1.4375 in New York, to $35.75. New York-listed shares of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, which owns 60 percent of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, fell $1.75, to $46.5625.
The company's reorganization will reduce the number of chemical businesses to 13 from 21, and the cuts in oil operations will mainly affect high-cost production and refining operations. These include projects in Texas, California and Venezuela. The Sola refinery in Norway will be closed, as will the Reichstett refinery in Norway later. The measures were by far the most drastic in months of omens that Royal Dutch/Shell was feeling the pain.
Even before the announcement today, the company had said it would close four big European offices and had begun cutting jobs at some divisions, including 3,000 at its European refining and fuel-marketing unit and 740 at Shell Oil's exploration and production unit in the United States. Today's measures, moreover, came a few days after Mr. Moody-Stuart ordered a streamlining of top management to eliminate cumbersome committees. "We have entered a new period where executive decisions have to be made rapidly and business accountability must be absolutely clear," he said at the time.
Royal Dutch/Shell was formed in 1907 from the merger of Royal Dutch Petroleum and Shell Transport and Trading, a British company that shipped kerosene to the Far East and based its logo on the shells it imported into Britain to adorn Victorian residences.
Since then, its management style has acquired a reputation for sluggishness. Mr. Moody-Stuart runs the company as chairman of a committee of five senior directors, who make decisions by consensus. He has not commented on reports that he plans to become a chief executive modeled on American corporate culture lines.
His reluctance to give details about job losses angered British labor leaders despite assurances from the company's British headquarters that there would be no big layoffs.
"The company should stop having secret back-room meetings about job losses and speak to people about how this will affect their jobs," said Roger Lyons, general secretary of the Manufacturing, Science and Finance Union.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (97%); RDSA (AMS) (97%); RDS.B (NYSE) (97%); RDS.A (NYSE) (97%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (97%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (67%); SIC5172 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS WHOLESALERS, EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (76%); ASIA (67%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (97%); SAUDI REFINING INC (67%); SHELL OIL CO (58%); BP PLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (76%); ASIA (67%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CHEMICALS; FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



336 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Angolan Rebels Still Break Diamond Embargo, Rights Group Says

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: LUANDA, Angola, Dec. 14

 BODY:
The sale of diamonds is still underwriting the war by Angolan rebels, and a United Nations embargo aimed at cutting off that income is not working, a report said today.
The report, by a human rights organization in London, Global Witness, says the blame for the continued rebel traffic in Angolan diamonds is widespread. 
 It says De Beers, the South African company, and its Central Selling Organization in London, the cartel that controls the world prices of uncut diamonds, lack the controls to make sure that the company is not buying diamonds from rebel-held territories.
Furthermore, the United Nations has not made sure that its members are rigorously honoring the Security Council embargo imposed in July. Uncut Angolan diamonds make their way to Belgium, Britain, Israel, South Africa, the United States and other countries, the report said.
The rebels, known as Unita, the Portuguese acronym for the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, have earned $3.7 billion from diamonds since 1992, experts estimate. For much of that time they controlled virtually all diamond-producing areas in Angola, where some of the world's finest gems are dug from river banks.
The report found that the failure of the embargo has let Unita "restock munitions and supplies," which has "fatally undermined the peace process." More than 500,000 Angolans have died in the civil war, which began in 1975.
"There is an urgent need for the diamond business to fundamentally change the way in which it works, because it is clearly unacceptable for diamonds to be used as a major source of revenue in conflict," said a director of Global Witness, Charmain Gooch. "How many people, when buying a diamond for their loved one, have any idea of the horrific price that Angolans have had to pay?"
De Beers representatives said today that they did honor the embargo. Any diamonds offered to their buyers in Belgium or Africa "that are obviously of Angolan origin and don't have a certificate from the Angolan Government" are refused, a spokesman said, even if they have certificates that say they are from countries like Zambia or Congo.
Determining the origins of diamonds is difficult. A skilled buyer shown many uncut stones from one area can make an educated guess about the area of origin by the mixture of shape, color and quality. With a single stone or a mixed bunch that is impossible. Chemical analysis is theoretically possible. But it is expensive and would require drilling holes in each stone.
Even if De Beers refuses stones, Unita will easily find other buyers, a spokesman said.
The Government and the rebels signed a peace treaty in 1994. But disarming the soldiers and creating a coalition Government has gone slowly, and fighting has resumed in many regions.
The fighting has been particularly fierce early this month, as the Government attacked two Unita strongholds and met unexpectedly tough resistance. One diplomat here said that the rebels had launched counterattacks in the area and that today they shot down a Government plane that was delivering food and ammunition.
Government officials acknowledged the latest round of fighting for the first time this weekend.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (86%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (86%); 

COUNTRY: ANGOLA (97%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); BELGIUM (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL WITNESS (ORGN); UNITED NATIONS DE BEERS SA (86%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL WITNESS (ORGN); UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA; ANGOLA (97%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); BELGIUM (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); DIAMOND MARKETS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); CARTELS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



337 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Renouncing a Violent Palestinian Past

 BODY:
The five-year quest for peace in the Middle East has been characterized by long periods of frustration, but also by moments of transformation and hope. One of those occasions unfolded yesterday in Gaza City as many of the same Palestinian leaders who had dedicated themselves to the destruction of Israel committed themselves instead to nonviolent methods in the pursuit of a compromise peace.
In the presence of President Clinton, the Palestine National Council formally revoked passages of its charter that called for the violent elimination of Israel. These old oaths of enmity understandably unnerved Israelis and undermined their trust in Palestinian promises to abandon and combat terrorism. Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who had personally led the struggle for an unambiguous repudiation of the offending clauses, promptly and properly acknowledged the Palestinian decision. 
 In his own words and deeds yesterday, Mr. Clinton walked a narrow but careful line. He emphasized the political advances the Palestinians have already made under the Oslo peace accords, without quite treating the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, as a full-fledged head of state. Noting that he was "the first American President to address the Palestinian people in a city governed by Palestinians," Mr. Clinton described the economic benefits that would flow from this fall's Maryland peace agreement, including American aid and the opening of the new Gaza airport.
No one imagines that further progress will be easy. Israeli troop withdrawals scheduled for this Friday were still unsettled yesterday. The uncertainties of Israeli politics, the violence of recent Palestinian demonstrations and the occasionally overheated rhetoric of Israeli and Palestinian political leaders all complicate the peace effort. But if the unambiguous commitment to peaceful methods reflected in yesterday's speeches and actions is faithfully maintained by the Palestinians, Israelis will feel far more comfortable about proceeding with the Oslo agreements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (50%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (55%); 

COMPANY: QUEST FOR PEACE (84%); QUEST FOR PEACE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEST FOR PEACE (84%); QUEST FOR PEACE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); OSLO, NORWAY (55%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICS (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



338 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: The High Price of Patriots

 BODY:
The Connecticut Legislature plans to vote today on a deal that would bring the New England Patriots to Hartford in 2001. The team comes with a considerable price tag. The state is promising to build a $375 million downtown stadium and a $15 million practice field, which the Patriots will occupy rent-free for 30 years. In addition, the taxpayers will subsidize the millionaire owner Robert Kraft up to $13 million a year if the Patriots fail to sell a certain number of luxury boxes and club seats.
Pointing out the downside of this plan seems almost fruitless, since the deal has about as much chance of being defeated as the Patriots do of winning the Super Bowl. Connecticut may call itself "the land of steady habits," but the excitement over bringing N.F.L. football to Hartford seems to have won over all but the crankiest of its politicians. 
 For a state with the highest per capita debt in the nation to borrow money to woo a team that will play only 10 games a year at home, including the preseason schedule, seems like a particularly dubious form of corporate welfare. But the deal does have some practical benefits. The stadium will also be home to the University of Connecticut football team, which needs a new facility. It will be situated in an area that was already targeted for economic development, and Mr. Kraft has promised to invest $70 million in a hotel and entertainment center there. Hartford is certainly in need of a psychic and economic boost, and Gov. John Rowland has a point when he constantly asks if anyone else has a better idea of how to bring it about.
However, there is no good reason to commit public money to guarantee that Mr. Kraft can rent his premium seats at his price. Cities and states continually attempt to lure new businesses by offering tax breaks, infrastructure improvements or even new buildings. But subsidizing sale of the product itself is taking the bidding war too far.
In an effort to clinch the deal with Connecticut, the Patriots agreed last weekend to reduce the subsidy guarantee from $17.5 million to $13 million a year and to cut the price of the club seats to make them more attractive. Mr. Kraft says demand will be so great there will be no danger of actually requiring the state to chip in. But if the Patriots management was really sure of its sales, he would not have demanded the guarantee in the first place, or hung onto it so stubbornly.
There is no excuse for promising that the taxpayers will rent out $100,000-a-year luxury boxes if no one else is willing to buy them. Even in an age where sports owners expect the benefits of one-way Socialism, there have to be limits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; EDITORIALS SPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); RELOCATIONS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: ROBERT KRAFT (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



339 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Who's in Charge? Agency Infighting and Regulatory Uncertainty

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and JEFF GERTH 

 BODY:
Regulators and lawmakers have been tussling behind the scenes over who, if anyone, might oversee the growing market for derivatives.
The fray is expected to continue tomorrow when the Senate Agriculture Committee opens its hearings on derivatives and the near collapse of Long-Term Capital Management. 
 In the hot seat will be Brooksley E. Born, the chairwoman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission -- which regulates the futures and options market. In May, she issued a statement seeking public comment on the derivatives market, viewed by many in the industry as a possible first step toward regulating the rest of the derivatives market.
But the nation's top regulators blasted her the same day. The leaders of the Federal Reserve Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Treasury Department issued a joint statement with the Presidential working group on financial markets. "We have grave concerns about this action and its possible consequences," the statement said. "We seriously question the scope of the C.F.T.C.'s jurisdiction in this area, and we are very concerned about reports that the C.F.T.C.'s action may increase the legal uncertainty concerning certain types of O.T.C. derivatives."
Since then, these financial regulators have all expressed concern that further moves to regulate either hedge funds or derivatives could prove harmful or inadequate.
Hedge funds could just as easily move offshore, escaping any regulation, said Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman. New rules or regulatory oversight could increase legal uncertainty in a thriving global marketplace, said Robert E. Rubin, Secretary of the Treasury. And Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has said that he would be hesitant to "inject government into the private sector unless it's absolutely necessary."
The three are not entirely opposed to regulation, their spokesmen say, but they would like the entire regulatory community to evaluate carefully any proposal.
Ms. Born, by contrast, has called for action. "Swift regulatory responses may well be needed to protect the U.S. and world economy," she said this fall.
Her position, however, appears to even be at odds with some of her fellow commissioners. Several of them wrote to Senator Richard Lugar, chairman of the Agriculture Committee, last September to say, "We will not vote to propose or issue any new rules, regulations, interpretations or policy statements" to regulate the over-the-counter market for derivatives in the next year.
And Ms. Born lacks critical support on Capitol Hill. Last month, Congress essentially blocked the C.F.T.C. from doing anything for six months while the Presidential working group studied the issue.
No matter what the futures commission does, the issue is one for the international community. "It is questionable whether hedge funds can be effectively directly regulated in the United States alone," Mr. Greenspan said.
The Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland, which sets voluntary guidelines for global banking regulation, is examining ways to shed more light on and better capture the risks of derivatives as part of its guidelines on how much capital banks must set aside.
The last major change in the international rules for bank capital came in 1988, before banks became major players in the derivatives markets. William McDonough, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the chairman of the B.I.S. bank regulation committee, recently conceded, "We have a great deal of work left to do in this area."
Absent any new requirements, banks and other derivatives dealers say they are taking steps to protect themselves from losses. "The way we deal with hedge funds has already changed," said Mark C. Brickell, a board member of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and a managing director at J. P. Morgan. "At the end of the day, market forces are the regulations everyone must obey."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur Levitt (Associated Press); Alan Greenspan (Associated Press); Brooksley E. Born (Chuck Kennedy for The New York Times); and Robert E. Rubin (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (50%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS) BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); FUTURES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (79%); LEGISLATION (77%); BONDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; GERTH, JEFF; BORN, BROOKSLEY E; LEVITT, ARTHUR JR (CHMN); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



340 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: By Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
BRITAIN: CHALLENGE BY PINOCHET
Lawyers for Gen. Augusto Pinochet said they would turn to England's High Court to challenge the approval last week by the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, of the Spanish petition to extradite their client to Madrid to face charges of crimes against humanity. In another legal move, the lawyers will also go to the House of Lords to seek a review of its decision denying the former Chilean dictator immunity from arrest. Warren Hoge (NYT) 

GERMANY: NUCLEAR DISCORD
In a spat with his coalition partners, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder blocked his own Environment Minister from talks with electricity executives about the Government's plans to shut down nuclear plants. The minister, Jurgen Tritten of the Green Party, favors a tougher approach to phasing out nuclear power than Mr. Schroder and his Social Democratic Party. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: CRACKDOWN IN CHECHNYA
Chechen government troops threw up checkpoints across the breakaway Russian republic as the authorities launched a massive crackdown on kidnapping gangs in Chechnya. The government ordered the arrest of a local warlord, Arbi Barayev, for the brutal killings of three Britons and a New Zealander whose severed heads were discovered last week. (Agence France-Presse)
 
POLAND: FREE FIGHTER PLANES
The United States has offered Poland the free use of 36 fighter planes if Warsaw puts up $100 million to train the pilots and technical support crews, the Polish Foreign Ministry said. It asked the Cabinet to provide the funds after meeting representatives from the United States Defense Department. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ITALY: RIGHT-WING VICTORY
The far-right National Alliance snatched Rome from the left in municipal elections on Sunday, for which only 43 percent of eligible voters turned out. The Alliance's candidate, Silvano Moffa, sneaked just ahead of the center-left's Pasqualina Napoletano in the run-off with 51.1 percent of the vote. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
NORTH KOREA: P.O.W.'S ESCAPE
Two South Koreans listed as killed in action during the Korean War have escaped from North Korea after at least 45 years in captivity, Seoul's top intelligence agency said. It said that Kim Bok Ki, now 67, and Park Dong Il, 71, were captured by Chinese forces during a battle at Kimhwa. They were forced to work in North Korean coal mines before escaping, and recently returned to South Korea through an unidentified third country, the agency said. (Reuters)
 
NORTH KOREA: BETTER GRAIN HARVEST
South Korea's unification ministry forecast that North Korea's grain harvest would rise to about four million tons this year, up 13 percent from last year. But the Government report predicted that North Korea could face shortages of 1.3 million to 1.5 million tons of grain next year. (Reuters)
 
JAPAN: STALLED POLICY TALKS
The secretary general of the Liberal Party, Takeshi Noda, said the party may review its agreement to form a coalition with the ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Mr. Noda told reporters that policy talks between his party, which is Japan's third biggest opposition party, and the conservative Liberal Democrats had stalled. (Reuters)
 
CAMBODIA: NO MEMBERSHIP YET
Leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, holding a regional summit meeting in Hanoi, failed to reach the consensus needed to allow the immediate admission of Cambodia into the organization. "No, it's not going to happen during the summit," Foreign Minister Surin Phitsuwan of Thailand said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
INDONESIA: A NEW MILITIA
The head of Indonesia's armed forces says he will form a 40,000-member civilian militia to assist in maintaining law and order. The plan has drawn widespread criticism from human rights groups and opposition parties. The armed forces chief, General Wiranto, said Sunday that 40,000 civilians would be trained and assigned to "disturbance-prone areas." (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
SAUDI ARABIA: SHORING UP OIL
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia called for OPEC and non-OPEC countries to join forces to halt the collapse of oil prices, the official news agency S.P.A. reported. King Fahd, whose country is the world's top oil producer, said that the collapse of prices had affected the revenues of every country in the Persian Gulf. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SAUDI ARABIA: PREPARING FOR PILGRIMS
The holy city of Mecca is gearing up to receive more than one million Muslim pilgrims during the fasting month of Ramadan, which begins later this week. (Reuters)
 
EGYPT: PASSPORT RULE LIFTED
Egyptian women won a victory this month when the Interior Ministry let them apply for passports without first obtaining the vice squad's clearance. Previously, Egyptian women who were not university graduates were compelled to obtain clearance from the vice squad. All women must still get a male relative's permission to travel abroad, though Parliament is expected to review this law. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: POLICE FORCES MERGE
The Mexican Congress has approved the creation of the Federal Preventive Police, a new force that would combine three existing police agencies, the Federal Highway, Customs, and the Migration Police, under a single command within the Interior Ministry. Lawmakers from President Ernesto Zedillo's party and from a pro-business opposition party voted for the new police corps over the opposition of leftist deputies, who argued that the initiative would simply rename three existing agencies. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: DRUG SUSPECT HELD
The Colombian police said they arrested the alleged head of a drug ring that smuggled large quantities of heroin to the United States. The suspect, Jaime Orlando Lara, could become the first Colombian to be sent to stand trial abroad since extradition was reintroduced, after a six-year gap, late last year. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ALGERIA: PREMIER QUITS
Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia resigned after opposition parties questioned his ability to stage honest presidential elections scheduled for April. Opposition members accused Mr. Ouyahia of rigging the 1997 parliamentary elections in favor of the majority party, and demanded his resignation as a signal that the approaching elections would be fair. Mr. Ouyahia had been denounced for not turning around a declining economy, or ending attacks by radical Islamic guerrillas. Craig Pyes (NYT)
 
RWANDA: HUTU LEADER CONVICTED
The international tribunal trying suspected ringleaders from Rwanda's 1994 civil war found a former Interahamwe militia leader, Omar Serushago, guilty of genocide. Mr. Serushago, who headed the Hutu militia in the northwestern Gisenyi region, had pleaded guilty to four of five genocide-related counts. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: DIAMOND SALES DOWN
The South African diamond giant De Beers announced that its diamond sales had dropped by 28 percent in the past year to its lowest level in over a decade. The Central Selling Organization owned by De Beers sold rough gem diamonds worth $3.35 billion in 1998, compared with $4.64 billion in 1997, the company said in a statement. It said that good retail sales of diamonds in the United States and Europe could not compensate for lower sales in Japan and Asia. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NIGERIA: POLITICAL KILLINGS INVESTIGATED
Nigeria's police chief has ordered a new investigation into the 1994 killings of two pro-democracy activists, Kudirat Abiola and Alfred Rewane, during the rule of the late military ruler, Gen. Sani Abacha. Police Inspector-General Ibrahim Coommassi called for the inquiry following allegations that General Abacha's chief security officer had ordered the killings.(Agence France-Presse) Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of Asia shows location of South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); POLAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CHILE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); POLAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CHILE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAWYERS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); PETITIONS (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); GRAIN FARMING (62%); CITIES (50%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (72%); GERHARD SCHRODER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



341 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Profit Woes Cause Broad Stock Losses

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks fell again yesterday, pulled down by a host of year-end concerns that are not likely to be resolved for weeks, if not longer.
Topping the list, according to analysts and traders, were worries about fourth-quarter earnings. Moreover, few expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again anytime soon. And problems in important international markets like Japan and Brazil are continuing, and developments over the weekend in Washington did little to clarify how -- or when -- President Clinton's political future would be determined. 
 "There are a confluence of negatives," said Michael Molnar, a managing director in retail sales and trading at Salomon Smith Barney. "There is no doubt people are questioning earnings growth at a time when the market is not cheap."
Unlike Friday, when the market turned in a mixed performance, every main market gauge was solidly negative yesterday.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell for the fifth straight session, dropping 126.16 points, or 1.4 percent, to 8,695.60, its lowest level in six weeks. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 25.26, or 2.2 percent, to 1,141.20. The Nasdaq composite index had its worst performance since Nov. 30, falling 62.39, or 3.1 percent, to 1,966.92. And the Russell 2000 index of small stocks fell 7.43, or 1.9 percent, to 387.94. Nearly three stocks fell in price for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mattel, the world's biggest toy maker, became the latest company to tell Wall Street that fourth-quarter earnings would not come close to expectations because of cutbacks in purchases by retailers. Mattel joined a growing list of companies, including Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble, that are facing difficult business conditions.
"The earnings concerns are real," said Bill Allyn, head of listed trading at Jefferies & Company. "Coke and Procter are companies that routinely hit their numbers. When these big, blue-chip, mother's milk companies surprise the Street, there is some concern."
Mattel was the most active stock and the biggest loser in the S.& P. 500, falling 8 1/8, to 22. It was the stock's biggest decline in 16 years.
Worries about weakness in foreign markets and economies also helped to drag down stocks.
Stock prices in Japan fell more than 2 percent on Monday after the release of a survey of manufacturers showed that Japanese executives are the most pessimistic they have been in more than four years. And rumors that a capital-gains tax may be imposed on both foreign and domestic investors in Brazil prompted an 8.5 percent decline in Brazilian stocks.
Worries about continued problems in these important countries translated into weakness in the stocks of companies that do a lot of business with them.
I.B.M. fell 5 1/8, to 162 7/8. Another Dow component, J. P. Morgan, dropped 3 7/16, to 97 1/16. And General Electric lost 2 1/4, to 86 13/16.
Technology stocks, which were extremely strong last week, pulled back sharply yesterday on profit taking and concern about the global economy.
Microsoft dropped 6 1/16, to 127 15/16. Intel fell 4 7/8, to 111 9/16. Dell Computer slid 2 7/16, to 64 3/4. And Cisco Systems lost 3 1/8, to 80 3/8.
Even with the sharp decline in technology stocks yesterday, the Nasdaq is still up more than 25 percent for the year.
Elsewhere, stocks of some local telephone companies fell as the Federal Communications Commission considered whether to block Bell Atlantic's acquisition of GTE and SBC Communications' purchase of Ameritech.
At hearings yesterday, the F.C.C. heard testimony from advocates for consumer and some competitors urging the commission to block the deals. The mergers are being scrutinized closely because if consummated, the new companies would control two-thirds of the local phone lines in the country.
Bell Atlantic fell 1 3/16, to 53 1/2. GTE lost 1 3/16, to 63 3/16. SBC fell 1 11/16, to 48 1/8. And Ameritech dropped 1 5/8, to 56 5/8.
Thomas Galvin, chief investment strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said he expected the market to resume its upward path. But he acknowledged that concerns about earnings would remain a factor for some time.
"At the end of every quarter for about the last 10 quarters, the earnings sinners have spoiled the punch for everyone else," he said.
"Until we get better information from companies that will have good earnings results, which won't happen until the second week in January, people will remain impatient. And, if you overlay that uncertainty with the political situation in Washington, it forces them to the sidelines."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Bonds rose for the fifth time in six days, bolstered by declines in stocks and by economic reports pointing to slower worldwide growth.
"There are more worries about equities," and that's helping bonds, said John Burgess, who oversees about $90 billion at the Bankers Trust Company. Investors sought the safety of bonds as dim prospects for a recovery in Japan and concern about impeachment proceedings against President Clinton hurt stocks, he said.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 18/32, to 104 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.99 percent from 5.02 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction for three- and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.892	97.781	High Rate	4.39%	4.39%	Coupon Yield	4.49%	4.55%	Low Rate	4.34%	4.35%	Median Rate	4.38%	4.38%	Total applied for	$32,729,187	$31,716,729	Accepted	$11,464,387	$12,112,229	Noncompetitive	$1,289,378	$1,034,296	
 
Both issues are dated Dec. 17, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Mar. 18, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on June 17, 1999

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (64%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (74%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL SALES (69%); MILK (64%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



342 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Looking Beyond Vote in Puerto Rico After 'None of the Above' Is Top Choice

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, Dec. 14

 BODY:
Puerto Rico's pro-statehood Governor said today that he would continue pressing Congress to address what he termed Puerto Rico's "colonial" situation despite a referendum in which most voters seemed to indicate they did not want change.
Gov. Pedro J. Rossello had hoped to use a statehood victory to prod Congress into authorizing a binding vote on statehood, but that effort was set back on Sunday when voters faced with five alternatives chose "none of the above." That option was promoted by supporters of the current commonwealth relationship with the United States as a protest against ballot language that they said unfairly portrayed the status quo in order to erode its support. 
 But while both anger at an election process designed by the ruling pro-statehood New Progressive Party and support for commonwealth helped pushed the vote for "none of the above" to a 50.2 percent majority, political analysts here say that option also sheltered those who feared statehood as too drastic a change and those resentful of Governor Rossello's style of governing. The Governor himself said he thought voters rejected him more than the statehood option for such decisions as the sale of a majority stake of the government-owned telephone company to a private consortium this year, which led to a bitter strike by telephone workers.
Whatever the interpretation, the vote left clear only that Puerto Ricans remain sharply split on whether to change their island's century-old relationship with the United States and that more than half the electorate does not yet want statehood.
To members of Congress like Senator Bob Graham, a Democrat from Florida who regards commonwealth as a transitional status, Sunday's referendum underscored "the necessity of having a Congressionally approved referendum based on a series of choices Congress is prepared to implement." A bill that set the terms for such a vote was approved by the House this year but stalled in the Senate, where Mr. Graham was among the co-sponsors.
Putting the best spin possible on the outcome of Sunday's vote, Governor Rossello and leaders of his New Progressive Party have claimed victory for statehood because "none of the above" specified no status preference. Statehood lost to "none of the above" 46.5 percent to 50.2 percent but won over three other status options -- independence, which received 2.5 percent of the vote, and the boycotted commonwealth and "free association," which each got less than 1 percent. Free association was defined on the ballot as a form of independence that delegates certain powers, such as defense, to the United States under treaties.
Governor Rossello said that only statehood, independence and free association can be considered permanent solutions to a status quo he and other statehood supporters say deny Puerto Rico's 3.8 million residents the same rights and obligations of American citizens on the mainland.
"I'm going to say: Congress and President, respond to these results," Governor Rossello, speaking at a news conference, said of his next step. "We have to push for a final definition, a solution that is not colonial. A solution that has to ultimately be either independence or statehood."
But that urgency is not shared by leaders of the pro-commonwealth Popular Democratic Party, who called Sunday's vote a rejection of statehood and of the Governor's efforts in Washington to promote the perception that most Puerto Ricans are unhappy with the fundamentals of their status. The Mayor of San Juan, Sila M. Calderon, the Popular Democrats' possible gubernatorial candidate for 2000, said today that another status referendum was not a priority for her party at this time.
"The impression that has been given outside Puerto Rico is that we live in crisis or that we feel like second-class citizens and that is not so," Ms. Calderon said at her own news conference today.
Ms. Calderon said the party leadership is not against another vote on self-determination as long as it is "just" and three conditions are met: the sponsorship of Congress, the participation in the vote of Puerto Ricans on the mainland and definitions of status options that emerge from a consensus among their proponents.
The definition Popular Democrats prefer for their status, however, has been deemed unrealistic by some in Congress. The party, for instance, has proposed more self-governing powers for Puerto Rico to foster economic development.
Puerto Ricans are American citizens who are governed by Federal law, including the military draft. But they do not pay Federal taxes, cannot vote on Federal elections or elect Congressional delegations and do not receive Federal benefits comparable to the states.
Some voters said that was good enough for them. "I think we're doing very well and will continue to do very well with what we've got," said Josi M. Millan, 64, a retiree who voted for "none of the above" to support the status quo. "I voted to stay the way we are, to keep our language, our culture, the Latinismo, and the ability to participate in all the pageants and sporting events."
Statehood proponents, however, vowed to continue their efforts.
"We have shed bloodshed for the country," Charles A. Rodriguez, president of Puerto Rico's Senate, said, referring to Puerto Rican participation in American wars. "We'll keep on fighting until we get equality for Puerto Rico."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS; STATEHOOD (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS GOVERNORS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); BOYCOTTS (70%); APPROVALS (62%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; ROSSELLO, PEDRO J (GOV) PEDRO ROSSELLO (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



343 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE OVERVIEW;
Polls Aside, G.O.P. Stance on Impeachment Hardens

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL and JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14

 BODY:
As the House vote on impeachment drew closer, the ranks of Republicans supporting President Clinton's impeachment grew today and in a more ominous sign for the White House, some of the few Republicans who have long been on the record against the impeachment drive began to waver.
The Republican votes for impeachment continued to solidify despite a remarkable stability in public opinion. Sixty-four percent of Americans, including a majority of independent voters, said they did not want their representatives to vote for impeachment, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted on Sunday. 
 The survey also found that while most voters did not dispute the accusations of perjury, obstruction of justice and abuse of power outlined in the articles of impeachment approved by the Judiciary Committee, only 24 percent want the House to actually vote to impeach Mr. Clinton. Of those polled, 37 percent wanted Congress and Mr. Clinton to work out a compromise; 37 percent wanted the matter dropped entirely. Page A24.
Unable to escape questions about the fate of his Presidency as he continued a Middle East peace-making effort, Mr. Clinton said he was open to "any reasonable compromise" short of impeachment.
"I don't believe it's in the interest of the United States and the American people to go through the impeachment process and have a trial in the Senate," Mr. Clinton said.
But with the White House increasingly pessimistic about the President's ability to win the vote in the House, Vice President Al Gore was anything but conciliatory. He denounced House Republican leaders for refusing to allow a vote to censure the President and accused them of ignoring the "wisdom of the American people."
Mr. Gore's sharp-edged comments came at the end of an otherwise routine White House announcement on a new round of law enforcement grants. "It's very unfortunate that the leadership of the House of Representatives has made a decision to reject compromise and force a vote only on impeachment and not give the members of Congress a chance to vote their conscience," Mr. Gore said.
His tone was echoed by the White House press secretary, Joe Lockhart, who said, "There is a small group of the Republican leadership who have made it their mission in life to remove the President against perhaps the will of the House but certainly against the will of the American public."
Mr. Lockhart also raised the specter that a Senate trial could undermine the economy. "I'd say that any student of the markets will say that uncertainty is bad for the markets," Mr. Lockhart said.
Fearing that a direct lobbying campaign with Republicans would now be counterproductive, the White House and its allies focused many of their efforts on trying to energize the public and stoke a backlash against impeachment. John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. instructed union members to use a toll- free line to call the Capitol and press Republicans for a censure vote. He also urged union locals within 100 miles of Washington to wage a demonstration and vigil on the steps of the Capitol when the impeachment debate begins on Thursday. The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson also called for a prayer vigil.
"The effort to impeach President Clinton has moved beyond reason or responsibility," Mr. Sweeney said in a letter to union presidents.
People for the American Way, a liberal advocacy group, said it would broadcast 30-second radio spots in targeted markets on Tuesday evening urging Americans to use another toll-free line to call Capitol Hill. The radio spot features a couple locked in coversation about impeachment.
"The country's going to be paralyzed," a woman says. "And you know who is going to suffer?" Her companion answers: "We will."
Capitol offices were already deluged today with phone calls, E-mails and telegrams. The phone traffic was so heavy that callers to House offices often received a recorded message: "All circuits are busy. Please try your call again later."
Some Clinton allies did try personal appeals. The actor Robert DeNiro made calls against impeachment to at least two New York Republicans, Representatives James T. Walsh of Syracuse and Sherwood Boehlert of Utica. Neither Congressman returned calls, and Mr. Walsh had already declared for impeachment this weekend.
Republicans appeared to be moving steadily toward impeachment. Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, who had been one of the first Republicans against impeachment, softened his position today on the eve of a town meeting in his district.
"If the vote were today, I'd be voting against," Mr. Shays said. "But it is not the same kind of certainty I had a week ago. My certainty has been shaken by the President's failure to come to grips with his problem." Mr. Shays was particularly critical of Mr. Clinton's statement of contrition last Friday.
"He just dug a deeper hole," Mr. Shays said. "I think he needs to say he did not tell the truth. And he did not. Like all Americans, he must abide by the laws."
Mr. Shays said he wanted to meet with the President before he casts his vote later this week. The White House was so alarmed that John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, called Mr. Shays to arrange the meeting for Wednesday after reading his remarks on a news wire.
One other in the handful of Republicans who have expressed opposition to impeachment also signaled a possible change of heart. Aides to Representative Jack Quinn, a Republican from outside Buffalo, said he was now undecided.
In the lame duck 105th Congress, Republicans hold 228 seats. The Democrats have 206 and there is one independent who usually votes with the Democrats. Democratic leaders are hoping to hold all but three to five Democrats against impeachment. That means Mr. Clinton must win support from 14 to 16 Republicans to prevail by just one vote.
It was hard to see how he would reach that number, with only Representatives Amo Houghton and Peter T. King, both of New York, and Mark Edward Souder of Indiana still solid votes against impeachment.
In fact, the pool of undecided Republicans shrank today, when Representatives Wayne T. Gilchrest of Maryland, Frank A. LoBiondo of New Jersey, Charles Bass of New Hampshire, Zach Wamp of Tennessee, and Porter J. Goss of Florida, all declared their alignment with the majority for impeachment.
Some Republicans were picking and choosing among the articles of impeachment. Mr. Wamp said he would support the articles impeaching Mr. Clinton for perjury before a grand jury and with obstruction of justice and that he was still weighing the other two articles of impeachment.
Republicans on the Judiciary Committee sought to stiffen the resolve of members. They drafted a set of talking points for Republicans on the panel to use in explaining its votes for four articles of impeachment. It struck three main points: that "the evidence is overwhelming," that "our laws should apply equally to every American" and that "America and the Constitution are strong."
"It is the height of egotism to suggest that the President's well-being and the well-being of the country are the same," said one of the talking points.
Democrats said that most of the Republicans who declared their positions today had never been considered likely to support Mr. Clinton. A senior Democratic leadership aide said, "It's going to come down to three or four votes but it's still doable."
The battle for votes is expected to intensify over the next few days. The House begins consideration of the President's impeachment on Thursday and the leaders of the two parties were still negotiating over the time to be allowed for debate. Republicans were offering six to eight hours and Democrats were seeking as much as two days.
But even before the critical vote, there were signs that much of Washington was turning its attention to the Senate.
In an Op-Ed article being published on Tuesday in The New York Times, Bob Dole recommends that the Senate -- whether or not impeachment is approved by the House -- pass a tough censure measure that Mr. Clinton would have to sign, and he urged that all Congressional action be completed by Jan. 2. Page A27.
Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat, said that the Senate would be operating in "a legal twilight zone" with only one precedent -- the trial of Andrew Johnson 130 years ago. He suggested the Senate could choose to toss out the impeachment case.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General Janet Reno and Vice President Al Gore announcing law-enforcement grants at the White House yesterday. Mr. Gore went on to denounce House Republicans for refusing to allow a vote on censure. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); WHITE HOUSE (81%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (81%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LABOR; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; IMPEACHMENT IMPEACHMENT (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ETHICS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON; DAO, JAMES; SWEENEY, JOHN J; WALSH, JAMES T (REPR); BOEHLERT, SHERWOOD L (REPR); DE NIRO, ROBERT; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); LOCKHART, JOE BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (89%); JAMES T WALSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



344 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Royal Dutch/Shell to Take $4.5 Billion in Charges
As the lowest prices in 12 years continue to roil the oil industry, the giant Royal Dutch/Shell Group announced that it would sell 40 percent of its chemicals businesses and take $4.5 billion in charges as part of a reorganization.
The announcement was the latest sign of upheaval in the industry after proposed acquisitions of Amoco by British Petroleum and of Mobil by Exxon. The cutbacks, which will include job losses, are expected to affect Shell operations as far afield as Texas, Venezuela, Britain, Norway and France. Page C2.
 
Crane Seeks to Block Coltec Deal
Crane filed suit to block B. F. Goodrich's $1.5 billion takeover of Coltec Industries, contending that Coltec had spurned a more generous offer from Crane. The suit seeks to allow Crane to present its offer of $1.6 billion, which had never been publicly disclosed. C6. 

British Utility Push Expands
Britain's utility industry made its second big American takeover foray in a week with a $3.2 billion cash offer for the New England Electric System, the largest electricity supplier in Massachusetts. The purchase proposal by National Grid Group, which operates Britain's electric transmission system, pushed up shares of New England Electric by $5.25, or 12.2 percent, to $48.25. C16.
 
RJR Nabisco to Cut 15.6% of Jobs
Hurt by economic weakness abroad and the impact of the smoking-litigation settlement, RJR Nabisco Holdings said that it would close plants and cut 15.6 percent of its worldwide tobacco work force, as well as reorganize and reduce jobs in its food business. C6.
 
Microsoft Accused of Sabotage
A Princeton University computer-science expert accused Microsoft in Federal court of sabotaging a computer program he had written to demonstrate a key point in the Government's antitrust suit against the software giant. C6.
 
Microsoft announced that it was investing $200 million in Qwest Communications, which is building a fiber optic telephone network around Internet technologies. C6.
 
Big 5 to Do Quarterly Reviews
The nation's five largest accounting firms have agreed not to audit a company's books unless management allows them to review the financial statements every quarter. C14.
 
Canadian Bank Mergers Rejected
Expressing concern about branch closings, job losses and a tightening of credit, Paul Martin, the Finance Minister of Canada, rejected two mergers that would have left just three big banks in the country. But the door was kept open for other mergers once regulations have been overhauled. C2.
 
Ruling Shows Antitrust Flexibility
Continuing a trend toward a more flexible application of antitrust laws, the Supreme Court ruled that an agreement between a purchaser and a supplier to eliminate a competing supplier was not necessarily illegal. C8.
 
Hughes to Buy Satellite TV Rival
Hughes Electronics agreed to pay about $1.3 billion in cash and stock to buy United States Satellite Broadcasting, a move aimed at fortifying Hughes's DirecTV unit as the nation's leading provider of television programs transmitted directly to homes by satellite. C12.
 
Phone Mergers Face Challenge
Consumer groups and rival companies challenged three of the largest proposed telecommunications mergers in history at a Federal Communications Commission hearing that raised questions about whether deregulation was hurting competition. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,695.60 down 126.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.99% down 0.03
The Dollar -- 115.49 yen down 0.93
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Consumer Price Index
November figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +0,1%
 
Graph tracks the price of New England Electric System shares since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (95%); RDSA (AMS) (95%); RDS.B (NYSE) (95%); RDS.A (NYSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); NGG (NYSE) (55%); NG (LSE) (55%); CTL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (56%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (55%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); BP PLC (57%); GOODRICH CORP (56%); NATIONAL GRID USA (56%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); CENTURYLINK INC (52%); SHELL GROUP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHELL GROUP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (77%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MERGERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); AUDITS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SMOKING (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); CLOSINGS (64%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (63%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (50%); 

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



345 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Impeachment: It's About Responsibility;
Damaging the Office

 BODY:

To the Editor:
President Andrew Johnson was not driven from office by the impeachment of 1868, but the Presidency was seriously damaged by this wrongful action, based upon articles of impeachment later considered to be unconstitutional (Week in Review, Dec. 13). The balance of power between Congress and the President was severely dislocated for the next several decades. The result was a significant period of Congressional ascendancy, or as Woodrow Wilson termed it, "Congressional government." 
 This emasculated Presidency emerged just as the new industrial system was exploding in unrestricted growth but confronting the population with social and economic problems. There was no Presidential leadership to take up the people's cause.
Without strong Presidential leadership, the balance of power at the center falters, and liberty and equality are weakened, leading to unrest and uncertainty. This has happened in this country in the past and could happen again.
 
WILLIAM M. GOLDSMITH
Providence, R.I., Dec. 13, 1998
 
The writer is associate professor emeritus at Brandeis University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); HISTORY; IMPEACHMENT IMPEACHMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ETHICS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSON, ANDREW (1808-75); GOLDSMITH, WILLIAM M (ASSOC PROF) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



346 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Bill Would Tie Local Aid To Inflation Rate

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
In the Legislature's latest proposal to reduce property taxes, Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco unveiled a bill yesterday that would tie state aid to the rate of inflation.
Under a complicated formula, municipalities have received roughly the same total in state aid for the last seven years, about $1.5 billion. About half that amount would be subject to the increase next year, adding about $15 million at the current inflation rate of 2 percent. Beginning in 2003, the other half, municipalities' share of energy utility taxes, now $755 million, would also rise with inflation. 
 The bill, to be introduced in the Senate on Thursday, would require towns to use the money to offset property taxes. William G. Dressel, executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, welcomed the proposal, saying local officials had long complained that state aid had been stagnant as the cost of services rose. But Senate Democrats said yesterday that the bill failed to address school spending, which accounts for more than half the local property tax assessment.
In September, Governor Whitman announced a separate proposal to return $100 million of surplus revenue to property owners and to offer incentives for towns to share services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRENDS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (55%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (SEN)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



347 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2613 words

HEADLINE: On Regulating Derivatives;
Long-Term Capital Bailout Prompts Calls for Action

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA and JEFF GERTH 

 BODY:
Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, called on some of Wall Street's leaders in the summer of 1994 with a warning.
Congress was asking pointed questions about whether complex financial contracts called derivatives could topple a major financial institution or even threaten the financial system. Wall Street, he said, should do something. It did. 
 The following spring, six of the biggest Wall Street investment firms released a plan to tighten their own controls of derivatives while giving regulators greater access to their records. The firms, it was argued, knew best how to manage their own risky world of finance and might even create a model of self-regulation.
But the weaknesses of that system were exposed in September when Long-Term Capital Management, the giant hedge fund with big bets in the derivatives market, careered toward collapse, threatening to ignite a global financial panic. Fourteen firms, including all six of those that had favored self-regulation, eventually agreed to rescue Long-Term Capital in an extraordinary deal brokered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The suggestion that one fund's misstep could harbor such dire consequences has Congress reconsidering how to oversee the derivatives market.
"In every previous instance of derivative problems, the industry and the regulators said, 'Do nothing,' " Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, a member of the House Banking Committee, said in an interview. "But now we see that industry risk management controls were lacking."
Congress has asked a Presidential working group -- with representatives from the Federal Reserve Board, the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission -- to deliver a study in the coming year on the derivatives market and another on the public policy implications of the near collapse of Long-Term Capital. Members of the working group will give a progress report to the Senate Agriculture Committee tomorrow. Former Fed officials and regulators will also testify before the committee, one of several looking into the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital.
Though Congressmen and regulators have not yet lined up behind specific proposals, the debate over additional regulation is spreading beyond just hedge funds and focusing on three broad areas:
*New disclosure requirements for hedge funds, which are largely unregulated, and derivatives dealers. These groups might have to reveal their closely guarded trading positions and their risk levels frequently to regulators. The idea has support from much of the financial industry, which says it would at least provide a window on the amount of hedging and the amount of speculating in the market.
*Some limit on how much commercial and investment banks can lend to hedge funds like Long-Term Capital or new disclosure on that lending. For example, securities regulators might decide to monitor hedge funds weekly or monthly, rather than rely on the quarterly filings now made to the futures commission.
*The creation of a clearinghouse, much like a stock exchange, for the trading of derivatives that do not now have an exchange. A clearinghouse could hold both parties accountable and step in to complete transactions if one party was unable to cover its losses, reducing the chance that a big default would touch off a series of defaults.
For the most part, brokerage firms now patrol their own risks, and bank regulators tend to focus on overall risk management practices, though they may look at industry sectors or even specific loans if they have a special concern. Hedge funds, which are investment pools open only to wealthy investors, are largely unregulated.
Attempts at additional oversight will face stiff opposition from financial industry officials, who consider more regulation costly and cumbersome -- possibly stifling the smooth functioning of the derivatives markets. Derivatives, so called because their value is derived from an underlying asset like a stock or a bond, allow companies and individuals to manage many types of risk, such as a sudden fluctuation in a currency or an interest rate, throughout the global marketplace.
Even Government regulators are torn over how and whether to tighten rules on derivatives. In Washington, officials at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are in a pitched battle with the Treasury, the Fed and the S.E.C. over which agency has jurisdiction and whether any further regulation is needed.
The derivatives market has faced down oversight before. In late 1994, Orange County, Calif., made headlines by declaring bankruptcy after suffering more than $1.6 billion in derivatives-related losses. And the next year, Barings P.L.C., Britain's oldest investment bank, collapsed after a 27-year-old trader struck out in the derivatives market.
Time and again, after studies and consideration, regulators backed down from wholesale regulation for fear of impeding the market's growth. Instead, they have made incremental changes in the way banks and brokerage firms -- the major dealers in the derivatives market -- handle transactions and support industry efforts at self-regulation.
Regulators in other countries are wrestling with the problem as well. Last July, Swiss regulators criticized Europe's biggest bank, the Union Bank of Switzerland, for weaknesses in its management of derivative risks. Three months later, UBS said it would take a $700 million loss on its business with Long-Term Capital. Since then, Dresdner Bank of Germany and Credit Suisse First Boston have also taken big hits because of Long-Term Capital.
These missteps from some of the world's most prestigious financial institutions point to another concern: the giant derivatives market rests on about a dozen global financial institutions, which account for more than half of all derivatives business, according to Swaps Monitor, an industry publication. That concentration troubles some financial experts.
"You have huge risks building up on the shoulders of these few huge financial institutions that dominate this market," said Henry T. C. Hu, a derivatives expert and professor at the University of Texas Law School. "That's a Herculean task and one that I worry about a little more now that Long-Term Capital almost collapsed."
Though Long-Term Capital is considered unusual in the size of its bets, the extensive amount it borrowed and the number of markets it entered, there is nothing to prevent other investors from getting into similar predicaments.
A report by the International Monetary Fund suggests more problems are lurking. In its annual survey of international capital markets, released this fall, the I.M.F. referred to "ticking time bombs" buried in losing derivative trades by financial institutions in emerging markets like Asia -- time bombs that could shake government officials out of their regulatory slumber.
 
The Explosion
Not All Derivatives Are Created Equal
Derivatives contracts have exploded in the last 10 years as a way for corporations, local governments and others looking to manage risks in the global marketplace.
An American company doing business in Japan, for example, might buy an option on the Japanese yen to protect itself against a decline in the currency that could hurt its profits, posted in American dollars.
Many derivatives are standardized contracts, like this foreign currency future. These contracts, called "plain vanilla" derivatives, trade on a financial exchange that is regulated. But many other derivatives contracts are tailored for specific parties, like an interest rate swap, in which one party agrees to exchange a fixed interest rate for a floating rate with a second party for a specified period. Such private business contracts are traded over the counter and remain off banks' balance sheets. It is this second type of derivative that is the most vexing for regulators since trading is conducted behind closed doors and largely unregulated.
Derivatives of both types have grown, though they are measured in different ways, making direct comparisons difficult. For the contracts not traded on an exchange, the prime measure is notional value, or the amount of the underlying asset on which they are based. About $37 trillion in such contracts are now out, up from $865 billion in 1987, according to the International Swap and Derivatives Association.
As this market has grown, so has concern about whether banks, brokerage firms and derivatives dealers could be brought down by a market mishap, a big bet turned sour or a rogue trader at another institution. In 1993, the House Banking Committee issued a 900-page report on the derivatives market, which one Congressman called the "new wild card in international finance," presaging the jitters over Orange County, Barings and Long-Term Capital.
The General Accounting Office released a study the next year that identified a number of risks to the system and to individual firms; it led to more internal controls by firms. Partly because of Mr. Levitt's prodding, the Wall Street firms agreed to train their top managers and board members on derivative risks, enhance their reporting to the S.E.C. and the C.F.T.C., take derivatives into account when setting aside capital, and follow certain guidelines when dealing with people who are not finance professionals.
 
For Regulation
More Information Helps Everyone
A drumbeat for greater disclosure is now being sounded by prominent Wall Street figures and hedge fund managers such as George Soros; Julian H. Robertson Jr. of Tiger Management; Citigroup's chairman, Sanford I. Weill, and the Goldman, Sachs co-chairman, Jon Corzine.
Regulators and the financial markets could, the thinking goes, operate much better with more information. Bank regulators already have access to information about derivatives risk; in fact, they often set up shop inside big banks. Brokerage firms voluntarily provide quarterly reports on the risks associated with derivatives.
The question remains, though, whether regulators receive information on a timely basis and whether they need information on hedge funds, which merely provide financial statements once a year to the futures commission.
Brooksley E. Born, the chairwoman of the commission, says that secrecy in the derivatives market is worrisome. "There has been a great deal of concern internationally about the lack of transparency," she said in an interview. "I share that concern."
Creating a more open market, however, is fraught with difficulty. The value of derivatives contracts changes rapidly, making information out of date as soon as it is gathered. And what exactly would derivatives dealers and hedge funds disclose, since others could use that information for market gains, and whom would they disclose it to? Regulators? Investors? Creditors?
Another possibility is to restrict how much regulated financial institutions can lend or require hedge funds to put up more collateral, in effect putting a brake on easy lending, which some industry officials argue is the crux of the matter. "What was wrong with Long-Term Capital wasn't derivatives, it was borrowing," said Thomas Clark, a managing director in the derivatives area for J. P. Morgan. "This is all about leverage."
Long-Term Capital had borrowed assets equal to 25 times its capital at the end of last year, making it look more like a securities firm than the typical hedge fund. As Long-Term Capital coughed up additional money to satisfy its lending agreements, its borrowed assets rose to 100 times its dwindling capital.
But Representative James Leach, Republican of Iowa, and others suggest that new rules may be needed to protect against a national banking crisis since hedge funds are often supported by federally insured banks. "It would be imprudent and anti-intellectual not to seriously review the derivatives and hedge fund industries," Mr. Leach, chairman of the House Banking Committee, said in an interview.
Critics of such proposals say that Government interference would only impede business. "The problem in the derivatives market is that it's hard to figure out what something's worth," said Michael Segal, president of Lamborn Securities, a derivatives dealer in New York. "You can't come up with a standard measurement to put restrictions on leverage. This is not the place for government."
A third proposal is the use of a private clearinghouse to settle the many derivatives trades that are not now handled on any exchange. The change would be much like that in the market for small stocks, which once traded over the counter before Nasdaq came along to standardize trading.
A clearinghouse, for a fee, would match trades and guarantee that all transactions are honored, even if one party goes bankrupt before making good on its contract. It could also be used to impose controls on borrowing. The clearinghouse proposal has received a great deal of attention and was recommended by the Bank for International Settlements, which coordinates global banking rules.
"It's been talked about for a long time," said Leslie Rahl, a principal with Capital Markets Risk Advisers, a New York consulting firm specializing in derivatives. But the idea "hasn't gone anywhere because of dealer resistance -- the costs and the complexities in agreeing on what something can be valued at."
Whether a clearinghouse could stave off huge losses amid severe market turmoil is hard to determine. "A domino effect will bring down a clearing operation, too," said Franklin R. Edwards, a professor of economics and finance at Columbia University.
 
Against Regulation
Financial Costs Of Adding Rules
Yet for all the proposals being forwarded, many regulators and financial experts worry that creating more regulatory hurdles could disrupt or stifle a vibrant and vital marketplace.
"It's very easy to call for regulation, but one needs to assess whether it's going to do any good," said Susan Phillips, dean of the school of business and management at George Washington University and until recently a member of the Federal Reserve Board. "Every time someone talks about a new regulatory scheme it adds costs."
Ms. Phillips and a host of regulators have long opposed tighter controls on derivatives that are traded over the counter. Many of them, including the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, believe that the market can be more effectively regulated through banks and brokerage firms. "Aside from safety and soundness regulation of derivatives dealers under the banking or securities laws, regulation of derivatives transactions that are privately negotiated by professionals is unnecessary," Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, told the House Banking Committee this summer before the Long-Term Capital rescue.
For their part, the banks argue that their examiners already scrutinize derivatives activity.
"Every swap contract at every bank is regulated," said Mark C. Brickell, a board member of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and a managing director at J. P. Morgan.
That leads some industry observers to conclude that it was not the absence of controls but a regulatory failure that brought Long-Term Capital to the brink and threatened its business partners.
"It comes down to, do you think the regulation of banks is sufficient?" said Professor Edwards of Columbia University. "If the links in the chain are strong, the chain won't break. But the fact is, it's very difficult for regulators to see what's going on; this market is too complex, too opaque and too fast moving."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the outlook for tighter market regulation after the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management misidentified the employer of Thomas Clark, a managing director in derivative securities who attributed Long-Term's problem to its heavy borrowing. Mr. Clark works for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, not for J. P. Morgan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph Jett (Associated Press); Robert L. Citron (Reuters); Nicholas W. Leeson (Agence France-Presse); John W. Meriwether (Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 
"Some Painful Lessons"
Derivatives contracts allow investors and speculators to make big bets with a relatively small amount of money, creating the possibility of big losses when markets turn against them.
 
APRIL 1994
Kidder Peabody dismisses Joseph Jett and accuses him of recording phantom profits of $350 million on trades involving derivatives created by stripping the interest and principal from bonds and selling them separately.
 
SEPT.-OCT. 1994
Bankers Trust is sued by Gibson Greetings and Procter & Gamble over derivatives losses, which amounted to $21 million for Gibson and a $200 million settlement for P.& G.
 
DECEMBER 1994
Orange County, Calif., reports a $1.5 billion loss, largely because of investments in derivatives, leading to the resignation of the county's treasurer, Robert L. Citron, and lawsuits against Merrill Lynch, among others.
 
FEBRUARY 1995
Barings, Britain's oldest investment bank, announces a loss, which ultimately climbs to $1.38 billion, related to derivatives trading in Singapore by Nicholas W. Leeson.
 
SEPTEMBER 1998
Long-Term Capital, a hedge fund led by John W. Meriwether, is rescued by a group of financial institutions after its big derivatives positions turn sour.
 
Graphs: "A Booming Market"
The market for complex financial instruments known as derivatives, whose value is derived from an underlying asset, has exploded over the last 10 years. Chart tracks worldwide total of privately traded derivatives -- including interest-rate swaps, currency swaps and interest-rate options -- as measured by their notional value, or the amount of the underlying asset on which they are based, from 1987 to 1998. Plotted at six-month intervals. (Source: International Swaps and Derivatives Association)(pg. C1)
 
"So Much Depends on So Few"
The dozen financial institutions that are the biggest dealers in financial derivatives control an estimated half of the worldwide market. Graph shows the total value of the contracts, traded on exchanges and privately, for the following companies: Chase; Citigroup (Citicorp with Travelers); J.P. Morgan; Deutsche Bank, Germany (with Bankers Trust); UBS, Switzerland (with Swiss Bank); Credit Suisse, Switzerland; NatWest Bank, Britain; BankAmerica (with Nationsbank); Goldman, Sachs; Merrill Lynch; Societe Generale, France; Fuji Bank, Japan (Source: Swaps Monitor)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); HEDGE FUNDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; GERTH, JEFF EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BETSY MARKEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



348 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 15, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: RJR Nabisco Plans Cuts in Both Tobacco and Food Units

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
Hurt by economic weakness abroad and the impact of the smoking-litigation settlement, the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation said yesterday that it would close plants and cut 15.6 percent of its worldwide tobacco work force, as well as restructure and reduce jobs in its food business.
One thousand of the 3,900 tobacco jobs to be eliminated and an undetermined percentage of the 1,500 food jobs to be cut are in the United States. The moves will result in a fourth-quarter after-tax charge of $348 million, or $1.07 a share, the company said. 
 The New York-based conglomerate said that it was cutting back its tobacco operations, which employ 25,000 people, partly because of reduced cigarette sales.
It also said that it faced increased competition with other producers as a result of the recent $206 billion settlement between the industry and 46 states that had sued cigarette makers to recover health costs related to smoking.
"We knew when we agreed to resolve the state tobacco litigation that the domestic tobacco company would have to make enormous sacrifices financially and operationally," Steven F. Goldstone, RJR Nabisco's chairman and chief executive, said.
"Operationally," he added, "the settlement will result in more difficult business conditions that will require the company to scale back a major production facility and employment and aggressively attack other costs."
To finance the cost of the settlement, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, the corporation's cigarette subsidiary, has raised wholesale cigarette prices by 45 cents a package. Several analysts have said that while the price increase will not likely cause people to quit smoking, it may lead them to reduce the number of cigarettes they smoke or to switch to less expensive brands.
The company's international tobacco business, particularly in the countries of the former Soviet Union, has floundered for some time because of worsening economic conditions. As a result, smokers in those countries, rather than buying higher-priced Western cigarettes, have gone back to cheaper local brands.
The cut of 1,000 domestic tobacco jobs comes in addition to 300 positions eliminated earlier this year. The tobacco unit is based in Winston-Salem, N.C.; its leading brands include Winston, Camel and Salem.
The tobacco unit said that the added 2,900 job cuts would come in Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union. The company began job cutbacks and plant closings in those countries a year ago.
Nabisco Holdings, a food company that is 80 percent owned by RJR Nabisco Holdings, said yesterday that it would make another round of job cuts and plant closings following a restructuring announced in June.
At that time, the food unit, which makes products like Oreos cookies, said it would reduce its worldwide work force of 52,000 by 6 percent, or 3,100 workers. The company also announced the closing of two domestic production facilities in Pittsburgh and Seville, Ohio.
Henry A. Sandbach, a spokesman for the company, said that the newest round of job cuts would involve about 3 percent of the company's work force. He said that additional plants both in this country and overseas would also be closed, though final decisions about specific facilities had not been made.
James M. Kilts, the president and chief executive of Nabisco, said that the food company was already realizing cost savings from the first restructuring round and expected further benefits from the latest moves.
 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about cutbacks announced by RJR Nabisco Holdings referred incorrectly to a decision on plant closings at its food subsidiary, Nabisco Holdings. The company has indeed decided which plants will close, but has not identified them publicly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RN (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP KRAFT NABISCO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO HOLDINGS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FOOD; FINANCES; SALES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS LAYOFFS (92%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SMOKING (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998



349 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN FALLS. The Japanese currency declined after the head of the Economic Planning Agency said the yen's strength was hurting his country's economy. In New York, the dollar settled at 116.35 yen, up from 115.49 yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since June 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC PLANNING AGENCY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC PLANNING AGENCY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



350 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Show Slight Rise

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose moderately in November as inflation remained subdued, the Government said today.
The Consumer Price Index, the Government's main inflation gauge, rose two-tenths of a percent last month after an identical increase in October, the Labor Department said. The core inflation rate, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, also increased two-tenths of a percent, the same as in October. 
 The rise in the overall index was slightly larger than the gain of one-tenth of a percent projected by economists, although the increase in the core rate matched the forecasts.
In the 12 months ended in November, the overall index was up 1.5 percent. One reason is that a glut of oil on world markets has depressed energy prices. Also, prices for apparel and new vehicles held steady.
The American economy has been growing at a solid pace even as Asia and many other parts of the world have had serious economic trouble. Inflationary pressures have been largely absent from the United States, despite nearly eight years of unbroken expansion.
Subdued inflation has given the Federal Reserve leeway to cut interest rates three times since late September.
Fed policy makers will meet again next Tuesday to discuss policy, but they are expected to stand pat on rates for now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



351 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Monicagate Year Two

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
There are only 29 more shopping days until Jan. 21 -- the first-year anniversary of Monicagate. The only thing certain about Year Two is that anyone who prognosticates about it with certainty has no clue.
This hasn't stopped the predictions. Time and Newsweek journalists have forecast the exact count of the House impeachment vote on TV. James Glassman, the syndicated financial columnist, has declared that a Senate trial "won't damage either stocks or the real economy." (Phew!) Alan Simpson, the G.O.P. Senator turned Harvard professor, says that his party need not worry about any political fallout because "the attention span of Americans is, 'Which movie is coming out next month?' " 
 Alas, these certainties have to be set against the record of those that came before. Wasn't Bill Clinton going to be out of office in January, or after the Starr report, or the inquisition video, or -- whatever? Virtually every known expert, regardless of ideology, predicted a pickup of Congressional seats by the G.O.P. in November, and when that proved wrong, the same seers predicted that the Democrats' strong showing meant that impeachment was "over" (in the word of George Stephanopoulos). For its part, the Supreme Court had certified that the Paula Jones trial was "highly unlikely to occupy any substantial amount of the President's time."
Yet no one foresaw the demise of Newt Gingrich or (Vogue excepted) the rise of Hillary Clinton. And whatever happened to the "talking points," to Kenneth Starr's reports on Whitewater and Filegate, to Mr. Clinton's on-camera temper tantrum before the grand jury, to a negotiated censure deal, and to the widespread conviction that even if the Judiciary Committee voted articles of impeachment, they would fail on the floor of the full House?
In this context, believe Washington's current truisms at your peril: that an explicit Presidential confession to "lying" will sway a crucial number of G.O.P. moderates in a party run by its right wing; that a last-minute plea bargain or parliamentary maneuver will prevent a Senate trial; or that a trial might be brief. In the past week alone, Orrin Hatch has publicly predicted both that it "could tie up the Senate for a year or more" and will reach "a quick end." Who knows? Since a simple majority of senators can reverse any ruling by the presiding judge, the Chief Justice, precedent means little. Besides, in Andrew Johnson's day, there wasn't TV with its bounteous opportunities for grandstanding by lawyers and politicians alike.
Looking back on Monicagate Year One, one can see only two fixed points, both consistently underrated by the fortune-tellers: Mr. Clinton's superhuman resilience, which keeps him clinging to office no matter what, and the equal tenacity of his opponents, who won't stop trying to bring him down no matter what the polls. Their battle, in which the American middle is held hostage, is a holy war that not only dates back to Mr. Clinton's first victory but to the Vietnam era. In the lines drawn by The Wall Street Journal, which has published four thick books of anti-Clinton screeds since '92, the goal is that Mr. Starr, "a hymn-singing son of a fundamentalist minister," succeed in "prosecuting the entire culture that gave birth to what Bill Clinton represents."
The weirdly prurient Mr. Starr, of course, no more represents all Christians or conservatives than the duplicitous, unprincipled Mr. Clinton represents the sexual or moral ethos of "the 60's generation": they are both caricatures of their constituencies, elevated to symbolic archetypes by the year's polarizing events. But both these antagonists are now merely footnotes to the bitter culture war they've helped re-ignite.
That is why this week's falsest prediction is that the Senate would return to the country's "real business" were there no impeachment trial. Hel-lo? As we enter Monicagate Year Two, isn't it past time to concede that the war it so garishly represents is the real business of the country? A Congress paralyzed by the ideological strife of partisans on both sides did nothing about Social Security, H.M.O.'s, campaign finance reform, taxes or much else during Year One either. Neither it nor we may ever get back to that business unless the unfinished business festering for 30 years is settled first.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: G O P (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: G O P (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (71%); GRAND JURY (71%); JUDGES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ORRIN HATCH (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



352 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Chevron to Cut Capital Spending and Jobs

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Joining the list of major oil companies that are retrenching in the face of low crude oil prices, the Chevron Corporation announced cuts yesterday in both capital spending and employment, primarily in North America.
Kenneth T. Derr, the chairman of the company, which is based in San Francisco, told an analysts' meeting in New York that the goal was to reduce costs by $500 million in 1999. 
 In what has become a familiar oil company response to persistent low prices, Mr. Derr said that cuts in capital spending of 8 percent, to $5.1 billion next year, would come mostly in the company's older exploration and production, refining and marketing and chemical businesses in North America.
He said that significant spending would continue in its promising long- term prospects in Kazakhstan, West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico, where the company has been able to increase its production of crude oil.
Mr. Derr added that the company would spend about $2.6 billion on exploration and production outside the United States and $1.1 billion within the United States.
The overall reductions in its work force of 34,000 would be modest, he said, because of the overseas growth. Mike Libbey, the manager of media relations, said some employees who faced layoffs would be given an opportunity to train for jobs in expanding parts of the company, primarily in overseas exploration.
The Chevron announcement followed a major revamping announced by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group in London on Monday. It said it would sell 40 percent of its chemical business, cut staff and take charges of $4.5 billion in the fourth quarter.
Earlier this month Exxon and Mobil, which agreed to merge, announced they would cut costs by $2.8 billion a year and reduce employment by about 9,000 workers.
There was speculation early last week that Chevron and Royal Dutch would merge, fed by rumors on the Internet. Mr. Derr said yesterday that "we will consider mergers or acquisitions as one possible way to improve business results, but it is not necessary for Chevron to merge with a competitor to continue to provide top returns to our shareholders."
He added, "We have the financial strength to deal with low oil prices, poor economic conditions in Asia and other financial challenges over the next few years."
With crude about 40 percent lower than a year ago, the oil companies see little prospect of a recovery, although the January crude oil contract rose 26 cents, to $11.55 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
There was some hope that a meeting tomorrow among three of the world's largest producers, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Mexico, could lead to another round of cuts in crude oil production.
Last spring, those three countries initiated a round of cuts that was joined by other major producers including members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which cut the daily world supply of 74 million barrels by about 4 percent.
It had been difficult, however, to agree to further cuts since the low crude oil prices have severly reduced the producing countries' revenue. Most are reluctant to cut further, fearing that other countries would eat into their market share by not abiding by the lower production levels.
Thus most oil companies, having gone through years of retrenchment, are preparing for a long period of low crude oil prices with another round of cost cutting.
The company's work force has fallen to the current 34,000 from 54,000 in 1991.
Chevron's stock fell $2.6875, to $83 a share yesterday in composite New York Stock Exchange trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (94%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (94%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); MERGERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CHEMICALS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KENNETH T DERR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



353 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: START TREATY BACKED -- The commander of the strategic missile force, Gen. Vladimir Yakovlev, backed ratification of the Start II arms-reduction treaty with the United States, saying Russia's nuclear weapons will soon reach the end of their service life. The United States Senate ratified the treaty in 1996. But the Communist-led opposition in the Russian Parliament has blocked ratification, contending that dismantling the weapons would harm security and be too expensive. (AP)
 
RUSSIA: STATE OF EMERGENCY IN CHECHNYA -- The Chechnya Parliament declared a one-month state of emergency to combat a wave of crime in the breakaway republic. Four Western hostages were beheaded there last week. On Monday the Parliament refused to let President Aslan Maskhadov call up army reservists to pursue criminal gangs. (AP) 

NORTHERN IRELAND: SIGNS OF PROGRESS -- Leaders of the Protestant majority and the Roman Catholic minority apparently made progress on provincial structures to add power for Catholics. Officials said the leaders were approaching a compromise on a Cabinet-like executive body in the new Northern Ireland Assembly and on the cross-border North-South Ministerial Council, which would give Ireland additional influence in northern affairs. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
ITALY: FLOOD OF RESIDENCE APPLICATIONS -- An estimated 300,000 illegal immigrants have applied for permanent residence under a partial amnesty. That is eight times the total that the Government had planed for the year. The former Government of Romano Prodi decided in September to offer 38,000 permits, setting off a flood of applications. (Agence France-Presse)
CROATIA: CONCENTRATION CAMP CHIEF INDICTED -- A commander of Croatia's Jasenovac concentration camp in 1941, Dinko Sakic, was indicted in Zagreb for crimes against humanity in the deaths of more than 2,000 people. Mr. Sakic was extradited in June from Argentina, where he had lived since World War II. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
CHINA: ARMY COMPLETING BUSINESS TRANSFERS -- The military is completing the transfer of its sprawling commercial empire to local and regional governments, ending 20 years as a leading force in the economy. The People's Daily newspaper said the divestiture, which President Jiang Zemin ordered in July, was "proceeding smoothly." (Reuters)
 
NORTH KOREA: U.N. PLANS FOOD AID -- The United Nations said it was requesting $376 million to help feed North Korea next year, despite a strong improvement in the harvest. The United Nations said the money would help the estimated 16 percent of children who suffer from acute malnutrition, including 430,000 younger than 1.
 (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
LIBYA: STEP IN PAN AM SUSPECTS' CASE -- The Parliament endorsed an agreement to try two Libyan suspects in the Netherlands in the bombing of a Pan American World Airways jet but did not say whether Libya would surrender the men for trial. The plane was blown up 10 years ago over Lockerbie, Scotland. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
ALGERIA: CARETAKER PRIME MINISTER -- Smail Hamdani, left, was appointed Prime Minister, to run a caretaker Government charged with preparing presidential elections. President Liamine Zeroual selected Mr. Hamdani, a senator and a former ambassador, a day after Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia resigned, having failed to improve the economy and end a Muslim insurgency. (AP)
 
ANGOLA: REBELS LAY SIEGE TO TOWN -- Unita rebels have laid siege to Kuito, cutting off air, road and rail links and prompting premonitions of a humanitarian crisis. A United Nations aid worker said up to 9,000 Angolans, uprooted by the fighting, had entered Kuito, sending its refugee total to more than 80,000. (Reuters)
 
BURKINA FASO: EDITOR'S DEATH PROTESTED -- About 10,000 students took to the streets in Ouagadougou to protest the death of a journalist, Norbert Zongo, managing editor of the weekly L'Independent. Mr. Zongo, a staunch critic of the Government, died on Sunday in a suspicious road accident. (Agence France-Presse)
 
CONGO: ZIMBABWE COPTERS ATTACKED -- Rebel forces said they had downed two Zimbabwean helicopter gunships over the weekend as heavy fighting continued in Kabalo, 750 miles southeast of the capital of Kinshasha. Officials in Zimbabwe acknowledged having lost one copter, adding that they had killed 80 rebels. The rebel leader, Ernest Wamba dia Wamba, said that none of his soldiers had been killed and that they had slain 45 Zimbabweans.
 Ian Fisher (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
CHILE: AIRLINE TO STOP FALKLAND FLIGHTS -- LanChile Airlines S.A. said it would suspend its weekly flights to the Falkland Islands beginning on March 31 in response to a Government request to halt them in protest against Britain's refusal to release Gen. Augusto Pinochet. The line said it would continue service until the spring to fulfill contracts. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
CANADA: QUEBEC MINISTER DEMOTED -- After having won a majority of Parliamentary seats but losing the popular vote in Quebec, Premier Lucien Bouchard demoted Health Minister Jean Rochon to a portfolio for research, science and technology. Mr. Rochon had overseen deep spending cuts that cost Mr. Bouchard support for his Parti Quebecois. Anthony DePalma (NYT)
 
MEXICO: PROTEST ON BANK BAILOUT -- A handful of leftist demonstrators invaded Congress and battled police officers sent to dislodge them. The violence was the third disruption of Congress in four days by debtors' and other groups that are protesting a law that creates an agency to administer a $61 billion bank bailout. An hourlong occupation of the Chamber of Deputies on Monday forced lawmakers to schedule a special session this week on the 1999 budget. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (73%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); UNITED NATIONS (80%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (80%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ARMIES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); AMNESTY (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); MALNUTRITION (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (63%); DIVESTITURES (61%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



354 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Voters Forget (Unless They Don't)

BYLINE: By Andrew Kohut; Andrew Kohut is director of the Pew Research Center for People and the Press.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
With two years to go before the next national election, many Republicans are saying that the party need not worry about the overwhelming public opposition to impeachment. "The attention span of Americans is, 'Which movie is coming out next month?' and whether the quarterly report on their stock will change," said Alan K. Simpson, the former Senator from Wyoming.
Good sound bite, but is it good logic? Probably not. Recent experience shows that voters have faulty memories only if they become distracted by more compelling concerns. And who can guarantee that? 
 In 1992 voters remembered that George Bush had broken his "read my lips" pledge not to raise taxes, and many people who normally voted Republican defected to Ross Perot, ushering in the Clinton era. President Clinton, on the other hand, was lucky in 1996 when Americans re-elected him despite his early missteps, especially the failure of his health care plan. The difference was that Mr. Bush had no popular domestic policies to make voters forget his budget deal of 1990, while in 1996 Mr. Clinton was able to capitalize on the strong economy, as well as Newt Gingrich's government shutdown and Bob Dole's weak campaign.
The big problem with an unpopular Senate impeachment trial would be that it would get in the way of Republican efforts to revitalize the party's image over the next two years. The party needs to find a few issues that connect with voters, and it needs some nationally recognized standard-bearers who are in sync with the more moderate tone of public opinion.
Right now, voters have far more confidence in Democrats when it comes to the issues that matter most to them: Social Security, Medicare and education. Gone are the days when the Republicans could rely on tagging the Democrats as soft on crime and weak on foreign policy.
The November exit polls showed that even those who usually vote Republican found the party's message deficient. Support for Republican House candidates was significantly lower than it had been two years earlier among men, college graduates and those with family incomes of $100,000 or more. These groups played a crucial role in the party's big Congressional victories in 1994, when Republicans had strong stands on a few pivotal issues outlined in the Contract With America.
Republican leaders have ignored polls showing that rank-and-file Republicans are not nearly as committed to ousting Mr. Clinton as rank-and-file Democrats are to keeping him in office. In a poll the Pew Research Center conducted last week, only 49 percent of Republican respondents said that impeachment was "very important to the country," compared with 86 percent who rated Social Security reform as very important and 73 percent who saw a middle-class tax cut as very important.
Impeachment aside, trying to stake out the moral high ground is not likely to help the Republican Party. When asked how best to avoid future scandals like the Monica Lewinsky one, only 34 percent of all people we polled said that "electing a President with high moral character" should be at the top of the list. Some 60 percent, by contrast, said that the key was to make sure that a President's private life remains private.
The big lesson of last month's election was that the party cannot afford to alienate moderate and libertarian Republicans who worry that it is too susceptible to the influence of the Christian right. Exit polls showed a higher turnout among self-described moderates than in the 1996 Presidential race, and this year these voters supported Democratic Congressional candidates over Republicans by 54 percent to 43 percent.
The next class of Republican leaders must try to keep their hold on social conservatives while convincing moderates that they are different from Newt Gingrich and company. This already difficult task will be virtually impossible if the Republicans continue to be the "all impeachment, all the time" party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT'S PRIVATE (63%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); REPUBLICAN HOUSE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); REPUBLICAN HOUSE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); BUDGETS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); MEDICARE (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



355 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Times Will Dismiss 500

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The Times Mirror Company said today that it would dismiss 500 workers from its flagship newspaper, The Los Angeles Times, in the second round of cost-cutting in the last month. It will also reorganize the paper into four geographic regions.
Times Mirror said about 380 jobs would be eliminated from its consumer marketing group, which will be folded into its advertising marketing department. The cuts, which also involve its finance, human resources and administrative services divisions, will be made by the end of the year. No cuts will be made in the news department. 
 The move follows last month's decision to cut 250 workers from staff of The Times. Times Mirror is looking to offset slowing advertising growth and has been revamping its business by selling assets to focus on its newspapers and magazines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CO (95%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); LAYOFFS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



356 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE CONSERVATIVES;
Long Fight Yields Hint Of Victory

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
The conservative organizations that have been pushing for impeachment for months are picking up the unfamiliar scent of victory.
"I would never underestimate the ability of Bill Clinton to turn something around," said Howard Phillips, chairman of the Conservative Caucus Inc., based in Vienna, Va. "But clearly at this hour, the trend is in favor of impeachment." 
 The prospect of impeachment is even drawing a conservative Presidential candidate into the action. Steve Forbes has been trying to build alliances among conservatives and plans to run radio commercials on Washington-area stations on Wednesday and Thursday, urging listeners to tell their representatives to vote to impeach. "The President lied to the people and is guilty of perjury by lying under oath to a Federal grand jury," Mr. Forbes declares in his commercial. "This is a matter for trial in the U.S. Senate."
If the House votes to impeach Mr. Clinton, conservatives are ready to take credit. Conservative members of Congress, led by Representative Bob Barr, Republican of Georgia, have been pushing impeachment for months. With the backing of the House Republican leadership, they picked up steam and by today had garnered the support of many previously undeclared moderates, pushing the House closer to voting in favor of impeachment.
All the while, they have been backed by an extensive network of conservatives across the country whose moral outrage, prodding by their leaders and missteps by Mr. Clinton himself galvanized them into action.
The most elaborate network is that established by the Christian Coalition. With less money than labor unions and the People for the American Way, which oppose impeachment, the coalition relied instead on phone trees, blast faxes that go to several people at once, and E-mail.
Randy Tate, executive director of the coalition, which says it has 2.1 million members, said today, "We have circulated petitions for the last month and a half. I quit counting signatures when we broke a quarter of a million about two weeks ago."
The petitions are still coming to Capitol Hill, as do tens of thousands of E-mail messages and faxes, because many callers cannot get through the overloaded Capitol switchboard.
Gary Giersch, 67, owner of a civil engineering firm in Madera, Calif., said he faxed a pro-impeachment letter to several members of Congress after a friend showed him a pro-impeachment letter from Gary Bauer, head of the conservative Family Research Council.
"He should be impeached because he has totally eroded the morals of this country, then lied about it," Mr. Giersch said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Bauer said that another of his organizations, American Renewal, sent faxes to about 6,000 conservatives who own businesses. "Business organizations are neutral on impeachment or are worried about the effect of impeachment on the economy," Mr. Bauer said. "But a lot of small-business owners are just beside themselves that the guy might get away with it, and their overall philosophical concerns are trumping any business concerns."
Like hundreds of other people around the country who faxed their views to Congress, Mr. Giersch used his company letterhead. He said in the interview that his views represented those of the 20 employees in his firm Giersch & Associates. "I am the company," he said.
Similarly, Jack DeWitt, president and majority owner of Request Foods, in Holland, Mich., also wrote to several members of Congress on his company stationery and said he was speaking for his 360 employees.
"Most of our people are conservative, pro-family, pro-life and we try to promote that type of business," he said. "I've been praying that Clinton resigns."
Mr. Phillips's group is calling 500 people a night, their names culled from other conservative organization lists and anyone they can find who has registered displeasure with Mr. Clinton over the last six years. A week ago, Mr. Phillips said his message was that Mr. Clinton had committed crimes and that anyone against crime had to vote for impeachment.
Today the message has changed. "We're telling people, 'Now is the time, now is the hour,' " Mr. Phillips said. "And we're telling them that the person to call is Bob Livingston," the incoming Speaker. "This is the first test of his leadership, and he will be in a very difficult position for the next two years if impeachment fails."
But he seemed confident that it would not. "We're preparing a briefing for our supporters in early January on the intricacies of the process in the Senate," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE CONSERVATIVE CAUCUS (58%); THE CONSERVATIVE CAUCUS (58%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE CONSERVATIVE CAUCUS (58%); THE CONSERVATIVE CAUCUS (58%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); ENGINEERING (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



357 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE PUBLIC;
As Opinions Harden, The Joking Subsides

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: RICHMOND HEIGHTS, Mo., Dec. 15

 BODY:
Santa Claus pushed himself off his throne and stroked the bridge of his big, cherry red nose. "I think President Clinton is a sleaze," he said. "Definitely, they should impeach him. Frankly, I don't care what they do, as long as they get rid of him."
His chief helper sidled over from behind the cash register in her velvety uniform and beefeater hat. "I'm sorry, I don't care what Santa thinks," said Lisa Jackson, a 45-year-old grandmother of three from St. Peters. "I sure hope they don't impeach the President. He's only got a year left. The people are trying to tell the Congress what they want, but the Congress won't listen." 
 In nearly three dozen interviews conducted over two days at places around the St. Louis suburb of Richmond Heights, including the St. Louis Galleria mall, where Jack Sim, 63, of nearby St. John, was portraying Santa, there was no consensus on impeachment. The greater number of people wished some face-saving compromise could be found to let the President finish out his term and a sizeable minority wanted the President punished to the fullest extent of the law with immediate dispatch.
What was striking was the hardening of attitudes and the relative dearth of those occupying the middle ground. In similar interviews around the country in recent months, many people expressed torn emotions, indecision and reluctance to take a stand. This time -- in Richmond Heights, at least -- the middle ground seemed to have all but evaporated and the positions of those in the two camps had grown more partisan and more intense.
Similar interviews in recent months, for instance, would have elicited a handful of new Monica Lewinsky jokes and many people would have attempted to ease their discomfort with wisecracks. The joking seems to have stopped here.
Richmond Heights is a small suburb, just 10,448 strong, five miles west of St. Louis. From its highest point on Clayton Road, St. Louis slides down toward the Mississippi River, the stumps of the downtown office towers framed in the great bell curve of the Gateway Arch. "We're that new buzz word, the inner-ring suburb," explained Patrick Brennan, the Mayor of Richmond Heights. And yet, for a small suburb it is uncommonly diverse, economically, politically and racially.
The population is 8,623 white, 1,587 black, with the remainder comprising relatively tiny groups of Asians, Hispanics and American Indians. The median family income in 1989, the most recent Census figure available, was $42,431, the median value of a house, $82,300.
But there is wide disparity here. Houses on its west side, near the tonier suburbs of Clayton and Ladue, are great edifices of brick and stucco set on grand, sloping lawns and costing into the millions of dollars. On the south side, there is a small working-class neighborhood, mostly black, left from the days when the suburb's chief employer was a brick factory. In the center are winding suburban roads lined with duplexes and single-family homes, that gradually ratchet their way up from middle- to upper-middle class as the suburb reaches westward.
The town is predominantly Catholic in the middle-class neighborhoods on the central and south side, nearest St. Louis, and the voters are mostly Democrats, Mr. Brennan said. "You know what they say about St. Louis," he said. "People identify themselves by their parishes and what high school they attended. They still do, even today, even here." To the west, in the fancier stretches, the vote turns Republican and the churches become Protestant, the Reformation seeming to occur somewhere around Hanley Road, one of the busier north-south arteries.
Richmond Heights elections do not require candidates to declare their party affiliations. The voters tend to elect a mix of Democrats and Republicans and to swing back and forth from one Presidential campaign to the next, said Richard Bauer, a spokesman for the St. Louis County Board of Elections. Currently, Republicans represent the suburb in the Legislature and a Democrat, Representative William Clay, in Congress. In 1996, President Clinton received 51.4 percent of the vote and Bob Dole, 38.9 percent. In 1992, Clinton received 51 percent, George Bush, 31.7 percent, and Ross Perot, 17.3 percent.
In interviews this week, a kind of steeliness seemed to settle on peoples' faces -- even Santa Claus -- when they were asked about impeachment. Nearly all of the respondents proved to be well versed on the process. And most everyone seemed to understand the nuances of the opinions on both sides.
Also striking was the near-total absence of affection or respect for the President. Even those who more fervently argued against impeachment had little but cold indifference for President Clinton. Only one person praised the President's stewardship.
"If the Republicans really go ahead and impeach him, like it seems they will, then I think he ought to resign instead of putting the country through a trial in the Senate," said Candy Prentice, 43, a bookkeeper. "It breaks my heart, but I think it's the best way for him to go."
All but three of those interviewed said they had made up their minds months ago. The three who changed their minds all had moved against the President.
"That speech Clinton gave last Friday did it for me," said Chuck Schierer, 26, a third-year law student at Washington University. "He is still not willing to tell the truth. He can end this anytime he wants, you know, by resigning. So I say he's played games with us for eight months, now it's time to play games with him."
At the Richmond Heights V.F.W. Post 3500, flying the flag over Big Bend Boulevard since 1950, six veterans from Korea and World War II were sitting around drinking coffee and beer, talking about the St. Louis Rams victory last weekend. It seemed an unlikely place to find Clinton sympathizers.
Not so. Only one of the men favored impeachment. "He's a draft dodger," said Vince Rankin, 83, who parachuted into France on D-Day with the 82d Airborne Division. "He's not fit to be President."
But the other five contended, just as strongly, that the President had been trapped into lying about his sex life, which was nobody's business. "A man's sex life and his religion are his own business," said Ed McEntee, who served in the South Pacific during World War II. "I think it's all a politically motivated thing. The Republicans are trying to cancel out the last Presidential election."
In an examining room at the Clinic of Internal Medicine, Dr. David J. Tucker, an internist, perched on one of those stools on wheels.
"I've given it a lot of thought and I'm not in favor of impeachment," Dr. Tucker said. "I don't want the country to go through that. I don't think it's necessary and the people don't want it. It's not that I'm pleased with the President's conduct. I think a true gentleman would have resigned by now, and I still think that it's the best way out."
Dr. Tucker looked out the window. "Let me put it this way," he said. "I don't want President Clinton to be impeached, but I wouldn't want to have him over for dinner, either."
Eric Hill, a Rams linebacker, was walking into the Galleria mall not far from Dr. Tucker's office. To him, it was all about what an impeachment trial would do to the country, and to the stock market. "The economy is going to suffer," he said. "Look at the market. It was down last week and it's down this morning again. I don't think that's a coincidence."
Halfway across town, at the Tropicana Lanes, five retired women were meeting for Monday morning bowling. "We're not in a league," said Maureen Krabbe from nearby Crestwood. "We're a league of our own." Opinions here were firmly held and decidedly against the President.
"I absolutely think he should be impeached," said Jean Graham, a retired bookkeeper from nearby Kirkwood. "The problem is that people don't realize that even if he's impeached, it doesn't mean he would be removed from office. There would still be a trial in the Senate."
At an adjacent lane, Lois Hert, a waitress from Arnold, Mo., quietly disagreed. "To a certain extent, I'm sick of it," she said. "I think everyone's sick of it. But I think the Senate and the Congress have got better things to do with their time than this. Don't they? I hope they do."
Mayor Brennan, a Democrat, sat behind his desk, an "Irishman for Hire" sign on the wall and a model of the town's under-construction, $10 million community center nearby. "The contractors asked me what the target date was, and I said two weeks before the next election," he said, laughing.
"I, myself, think it's a farce," he said, referring to the impeachment process. "There is ridiculous behavior on both sides. I think it's particularly ridiculous that the investigators have been allowed to do what they've done. But I can't pretend to speak for the entire community."
At the Richmond Heights Public Library, which will move into new spacious quarters when the community center is finished, one of the librarians, Linda Underwood, was returning books to the shelves. "You know, I think the President is a very good person," she said, sadly. "Look at him. He's off in the Middle East, doing the job we elected him to do.
"I think it's despicable what they're doing to him," she said. "It's so clearly a political thing. They've been trying to get him ever since he got into office and now, I'm afraid they're going to finish the job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Sim, above left, portraying Santa Claus in Richmond Heights, Mo., said the President should be impeached. Linda Underwood said it was "despicable what they're doing to him." Dr. David Tucker said he did not want Mr. Clinton impeached but, "I wouldn't want to have him over for dinner, either." Mayor Patrick Brennan, at left, said impeachment was not the hottest topic in town. (Photographs by Bill Stover for The New York Times)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS COUNTY BOARD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS COUNTY BOARD (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CENSUS (63%); HOME PRICES (60%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); LISA P JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



358 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: India Indicates It Will Develop Missiles and Atomic Weapons

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Dec. 15

 BODY:
In an effort to reassure hard-liners Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India told both houses of Parliament today that the Government had shunned a proposed moratorium on producing weapons-grade nuclear material and would continue to develop an intermediate-range missile system.
Reading from a text Mr. Vajpayee seemed intent on making it clear that although India might be moving toward signing a nuclear test ban treaty it intended to develop the megaton might that it showed in May in two underground tests. 
 India remains committed to maintaining a "minimum credible nuclear deterrent," he said. But he added, "This Government remains unequivocally opposed to any suggestions that seek to place India at a technological disadvantage."
Since the tests in May, followed in two weeks with tests by Pakistan, India has been engaged in talks with American officials, who felt betrayed by the tests and imposed economic sanctions on the two countries. The negotiations have involved a proposed trade-off, weakening the sanctions in exchange for halting a nuclear buildup.
Seven meetings have been held between the new External Affairs Minister, Jaswant Singh, and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott. An eighth is scheduled for next month here.
The give-and-take of the negotiations has not been made public, and many politicians have been insisting on a report. The long-promised briefing today was received without outraged comments. Some disappointed legislators said they had learned as much about the talks from press coverage as they had from the Prime Minister.
"We are getting very mixed signals," a member of the upper house, Nilotpal Basu, said. "In the entire negotiation process what reciprocal responses from the United States have been of vital importance? We still do not know."
In Washington a senior Clinton Administration official who works on southern Asia said the speech accurately reflection the American-Indian dialogue. "It is also clear that Prime Minister Vajpayee is trying to build a national consensus for no more nuclear testing and signing of the test ban treaty," the official said. "It is also clear that India intends to maintain a 'minimum nuclear deterrent,' but still has not defined just what that will require. And we will want to discuss that with them."
In September, Mr. Vajpayee, speaking before the United Nations, said that India had satisfied many security concerns with its nuclear tests and was inclined toward signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Today he repeated that. As he has often stated, Mr. Vajpayee reiterated that India's objective for 50 years had been a world free of nuclear weapons. But "regrettably," he added, "the international community, particularly countries that have based their security on nuclear weapons or a nuclear umbrella, have been reluctant to embrace this objective."
Consequently, Mr. Vajpayee said, India had to keep its military options open and, "after an exemplary nuclear restraint," had yielded to the weaponry, "given the exceptional security-related complexities of our region," namely tense relations with Pakistan and China.
He said an extended-range version of the Indian Agni missile was being developed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



359 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: BUSINESS;
Many Executives Are Sitting Out This Fight

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Over the years Bill Clinton had no better friend in the business world than the Wall Street partnership of Goldman, Sachs and Company. In 1992 and 1996, the firm was among his largest donors and fund-raisers. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin once ran the place, and as world markets melted over the last 18 months the phone lines between Goldman and Washington were constantly abuzz.
But over the last week, as an impeachment of the President has moved from a distant possibility to a strong likelihood, Goldman's top executives say they have started no phone campaigns and twisted no arms. Indeed, many of Mr. Clinton's allies in the business world -- from Silicon Valley to Wall Street -- say they are sitting this one out even though they think a prolonged Senate trial could trigger a market shock. 
 "I think this will have more impact in financial markets than people commonly believe, particularly if it drags on," Jon S. Corzine, Goldman's co-chairman, said today as more Republican moderates declared that they would vote for impeachment. "Apart from the merits of the question, it's an unattractive debate for the markets because they don't like uncertainty, and an inability to respond to tough situations. And in the economic situation the world has been in, the United States has been the main country to respond."
Yet Mr. Corzine said that he had made no telephone calls to members of Congress on the issue and that he and other executives were concerned that any organized lobbying effort might backfire.
There have been some organized lobbying efforts: Representative Brian P. Bilbray, Republican of California, has received a flood of calls from Silicon Valley executives who say they are not defending Mr. Clinton, but fear that a prolonged fight could damage the economy, members of Mr. Bilbray's staff said.
Mr. Clinton's aides raise the same specter, noting that these days, the United States is the keystone to the world economy -- and any suggestion that its executive branch will spend more time fighting for survival could send a chill around the world. It is an argument that, right or wrong, would have resounded far more widely in September and October, when the world economy seemed at the precipice of disaster.
After all, the market meltdowns that raced around the world this fall began on Aug. 17, the day that Mr. Clinton testified in front of the grand jury. But that was also the day that Russia announced a default on its debt, and in the end Russia's troubles, rather than Mr. Clinton's, were blamed for the flight from emerging markets around the world.
But at least for now, the situation looks less perilous. The United States markets have recovered, even if much of the rest of the world has not. And in the absence of economic pain here, the gathering storm of impeachment has created more confusion than fear in the business and financial worlds.
"I haven't heard anything but questions from my members," said Tom Donahue, the president and chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce, the parent organization for 3,000 chambers of commerce around the country, whose offices border Lafayette Park, facing the north front of the White House. "No one is yelling 'stop this thing.' Business executives don't know if they are on this side or that."
Mr. Donahue noted, though, that he had heard "nothing from the White House," which turns to him regularly during legislative battles. Other executives said the same, and Mr. Clinton's aides said they had deliberately avoided anything that would resemble a lobbying effort.
In part that reflects the natural divide between business executives and politicians, who, especially in good times, have very different priorities.
"To the extent I can tell, this hasn't been on people's radar screens," said Jeffrey Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management and a former top official in the Commerce Department during Mr. Clinton's first term. "When you talk to C.E.O.'s now, what they are worried about is deflation and the prospect that they are heading into an era of brutal competition and massive restructuring. The fact that Bill Clinton will be diminished in the next 18 months is not their greatest concern."
That could change if the prospect of a long Senate trial triggered a market sell-off. While the market has seemed little affected, the dollar has fallen in recent days, which has been interpreted as a sign that international investors are nervous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); LOBBYING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GRAND JURY (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JON CORZINE (58%); BRIAN P BILBRAY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



360 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Both Sides in N.B.A. Lockout Say Race Complicates Talks

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS and MIKE WISE

 BODY:
The negotiations have often been heated during the five-month standoff between the National Basketball Association's owners and players. As contract talks have stretched on, forcing the cancellation of much of the season, there have been screaming matches, traded insults, lots of posturing and more than a couple of threats, veiled and otherwise.
In many respects, then, the negotiations have been like any high-stakes labor dispute; baseball's long history of strikes and lockouts has included much of the same kind of acrimony. 
 But in recent weeks, as the specter of a lost season has loomed larger, both sides in the negotiations -- the 100 percent white ownership, and the players union that is 85 percent black -- have come to conclude that the effort to break the impasse and start the season may have become complicated by a sensitive and combustible component: the question of race.
Players, including several on the union's negotiating committee, say they have found the league's bargaining style to be disrespectful and provocative. And they say that the league's attitude has stemmed, at least in part, from a belief that a predominantly black union somehow did not have to be taken fully seriously.
At the same time, members of ownership's negotiating team, as well as several agents, have acknowledged that the perception that the negotiations have been racially tinged has served to solidify the players' ranks, and perhaps made them willing to sacrifice the entire season to make a stand.
"I believe there are respect issues, and maybe there is some race involved," said Dikembe Mutombo, a center for the Atlanta Hawks and a member of the union's negotiating committee. "Some guys are feeling that. The owners think the players want to steal the power. That's not it at all. We want a fair deal. It's about money, but it's also about power and respect."
Race aside, the main issue in the labor dispute is how the owners and players plan to divide roughly $2 billion in annual revenue into the next century.
The players, who admit that they cannot point to a single overtly racist comment or tactic by the owners or the league, say they have nonetheless been offended by many aspects of ownership's stance. They have been offended by what they regard as ownership's dismissive responses to their contract proposals. And they imply the owners and league officials like Commissioner David Stern have all too willingly allowed the players to be publicly portrayed as greedy materialists interested only in their multiple car payments, as people too unintelligent to appreciate the financial stakes involved.
"You know what the owners and Stern think?" asked Karl Malone, the veteran Utah Jazz forward. "They tell themselves, 'We know how players live. So you know what, we're going to see? We'll see if they've got guts or not.' They want to make us suffer. They're saying to themselves, 'These players got all these cars. We can tell the public so and so can't make the payment on his Mercedes-Benz or his third house.' But that's so childish. They're trying to show us, like you would your little son or daughter, that daddy is going to punish you."
 
Using Racial Identity To Create Solidarity
 N.B.A. owners and league officials are adamant that race has not influenced their position or their treatment of the players. But privately, members of ownership's negotiating team have said that the union may be using a sense of racial identity and pride among the players to sustain their unity and preserve their bargaining position.
"Maybe different people might view it through a different prism, but not the league, not the owners and not me," Stern said of the possibility that the players felt a racial edge to the contentious negotiations. Stern insisted that the negotiations were exclusively about "trying to get 29 teams to function well economically so the league and the players can survive and prosper."
"The N.B.A. has spent a lot of time proving to the world it's not about race," he said of the league's spectacular marketing success over the past two decades. "This is a place, where perhaps better than any other industry in the world, you do well if you are talented."
Without a major breakthrough in negotiations, the lockout has plodded into its sixth month. Frustrated by the lack of progress, both sides are staring at a dubious first in American sports history: the loss of an entire season to labor strife.
So far, players have lost more than $300 million in salaries and could lose $1.1 billion if the season is canceled. The owners have a financial cushion through a television contract with NBC and Turner Sports, but the losses resulting from a canceled season could be huge. Both sides have indicated that if a deal is not struck in the next several weeks, the season will most likely be scrapped.
Billy Hunter, the black executive director of the players union, said the question of race had not affected the negotiations, but he conceded that it was probably impossible for the topic of race not to come up in the course of difficult talks involving whites and blacks. "If you incorporate into the equation that we have a league of athletes who are 85 percent African-American and a group of owners who are white," he said, "then consequently you get a picture of the bargaining table with the sophisticated, old boys' club on one side and the young athletes, who by nature are apolitical, on the other side."
Hunter concluded, "People will see what they want to see."
 
From Pop Superstars To Mere Spare Parts
 Throughout the negotiations, players have felt slighted by a league that they helped build. The N.B.A. recovered from its drug-tainted image of the 1970's with a savvy marketing strategy that turned its players into pop-culture superstars. Now, some players, although they are making huge salaries, say they sense a tone in the negotiations that leaves them feeling like parts on a conveyor belt.
"They're smearing the players, and in the process, they're degrading their own product," Malone said. "You can't degrade your own product. Show me your marketing tool to get all the fans back when this is over with. It's the players, and it's always been the players. The league has cast us as dumb and stupid and uninformed, but they'll be waiting for us to get out there and pitch computers for IBM. In the end, you've degraded me, called me unintelligent, but you're going to want to sell me to the public after this. You're going to want to make money off of me. You don't treat people that way."
Some prominent players say they have felt as if their intelligence and resolve have been challenged by the owners and league officials. They cite, by way of example, that, after the players made their initial contract proposal last August, the owners abruptly broke off talks and walked out of negotiations. They have, too, interpreted Stern's repeated comments about whether they fully understand the amount of money they are losing as condescending.
For their part, members of ownership's bargaining team think the players have embraced a racial component as a way to help stand firm. "We don't deny the possibility that the union has the ability to use race as a rallying point," said one member of ownership's negotiating team who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "There may be code words used to rally its members, code words that have racial connotations."
Steven Woods, a white agent who represents two black players, said he was convinced that Hunter has subtly used the issue of race to maintain unity as the weeks have worn on and the financial toll for the players has escalated. In October, Hunter circulated among the players copies of a newspaper article that depicted the players as unprincipled athletes who would crumble in the face of economic hardship. "One of the oldest motivational ploys in sports to get them fired up is to tell a player, 'You're not dumb, are you?' Well, Billy Hunter has essentially said to his players: 'David Stern and the owners think you're dumb. You're not dumb, are you?' " Woods said. "Instead of debating business issues, Billy Hunter has constantly reinforced the emotional issues, which is at the heart of the unity."
 
The Role of Race Becomes Inevitable
 In recent weeks, the players, perhaps in an effort to put pressure on the owners, have begun to speak more openly about the degree to which questions of race have begun to be infused into the negotiations and into the environment surrounding the talks.
The Nets' Jayson Williams said that "for some guys it's hard not to think about race." Williams said that if the season were canceled, "you'll have to look under the carpet and ask why." In an interview with Newsweek, Alonzo Mourning, the Miami center and a member of the union's negotiating committee, said: "I think there is a perception from the owners to even some fans that we're blacks who should be happy with what we got, fair or not. There's a lack of respect given us in large part because we're athletes. I'm not saying it's all about race, because it's not. But it plays a factor."
Buck Williams, a former president of the union, said race playing a role was inevitable. "There is a sense among some of the players that race is a subtext in all of this," he said. "I say that because there are some in the American public who have difficulty with African-Americans -- some of whom don't have college degrees -- commanding the salaries that they do in the league. I think some players may look upon that perception when dealing with the owners. In the end, it's sheer business. But I think, just like in society, race is a subtext. I don't think the N.B.A. is excluded from that."
The suspicions of the players have been fueled by even the more minor details in the negotiations. For instance, some players have questioned why it has almost always been left to Hunter to make the telephone call necessary to restart talks.
"Why doesn't David call Billy?" Mutombo asked. "Always Billy has to make the call. I think it's just respect. I think when you're the boss and you've got the money, you want control. You have to be in charge."
If there is a chasm beyond economics that is special to the N.B.A., some observers prefer to look at it as more of a generational gap than a racial divide. The N.B.A. has been predominantly black for the past three decades, with its union anchored by black leadership. But even former players like Isiah Thomas and Oscar Robertson have questioned the current union's caustic behavior during negotiations.
"I'm not sure about the perspective of black versus white, but I don't think you have the same kind of intellectual thought process going on among these union leaders that the N.B.A. once had," said Phil Jackson, the former Chicago Bulls coach and N.B.A. player. "We've got a group of players that haven't even finished college standing up there at the podium.
"I'm not saying college is essential for understanding these issues, but when Isiah Thomas, Paul Silas, John Havlicek, Oscar Robertson and people like Bill Bradley were involved in the union, they looked beyond their own generation to what was good for the game."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alonzo Mourning, sitting between Dominique Wilkins and Patrick Ewing, says race is a factor in the lockout. David Stern, right, says it isn't. (Associated Press)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: KARL MALONE TOYATA (50%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); GEORGIA, USA (68%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (78%); BASEBALL (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



361 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CATERPILLAR EXPECTS PROFIT TO DROP IN FOURTH QUARTER

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc. warned yesterday that its fourth-quarter profits would fall below expectations as farmers' economic problems and troubles overseas force it to discount the prices of its products and leave larger inventories in stock. The company, a maker of heavy equipment based in Peoria, Ill., expects its earnings for the period to be lower than the 92 cents a diluted share it reported in the third quarter. Wall Street had expected the company to earn $1.06 a share, according to a survey of analysts by the First Call Corporation. The final quarter will be the third in a row in which the company's earnings have fallen short of expectations. Caterpillar's shares fell $1.8125, to $44.4375, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (97%); CATR (PAR) (97%); CAT (SWX) (97%); CAT (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (97%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PEORIA, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



362 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1893 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ABRAHAM, STELLA K.

 BODY:
ABRAHAM-Stella K. On her 102nd birthday, Baruch Dayan Emet, the beloved wife of the late Dr Samuel Abraham and loving mother of Judy Steinberg, Daniel Abraham, Jerry Abraham and the late Roy Abraham. Cherished mother-inlaw, adored grandmother, great grandmother and elder sister. Grandma Stella was an extraordinary, unforgettable woman whose long and distinctive life was an ongoing inspiration to her family and a remarkable source of blessing to the Jewish people and the world. The radiant matriarch of our family, she was for us the very embodiment of the Eishet Chayil, a woman of valour who was blessed with uncommon goodness, unflagging strength, deep wisdom, a profound faith and trust in God and Ishah Chashuvah, a woman of dignity in every sense, possessed of both inner and outer beauty. An outstanding daughter of the Jewish people and of the Jewish faith, Grandma Stella's life was filled with Torah and Mitzvot, as she devoted herself to helping others, in particular inspiring the young women of the Stella K. Abraham High School for Girls, of whom she was so proud to walk in her footsteps and like her to strengthen Jewish life, both near and far. Her memory will live not just in the causes and institutions that bear her name, but in our hearts forever. Shiva is being observed at the Herring residence, 1495 Bay Boulevard, Atlantic Beach until Monday morning. Services at 7am (Sunday at 8am) and 4:15pm. In Toronto shiva will be observed at the Abraham home from Saturday night til Monday.
ABRAHAM-Stella K. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of Stella K. Abraham, the matriarch of one of the most distinguished Jewish families on this continent on her 102nd birthday. We extend sincerest condolences to her children, S. Daniel and Ewa Abraham, Dr. Edward L. Steinberg and Judith Abraham Steinberg, Jeremiah and Geula Abraham and her grandchildren and her greatgrandchildren. She inspired her offspring with such a love of their ancestral heritage, that they have become in their respective communities pillars of their congregations, benefactors of World Jewry, patrons of universities and indeed patrons of almost every worthy cause in North America and Israel. Their philanthropies know no bounds and include causes interdenominational and are especially promotive of health, educational and general welfare concerns. Her son, Daniel and her son-in-law, Dr. Edward L. Steinberg are Honorary Alumni of our University and have been especially helpful in the development of our School of Economics and Business Administration which bears Daniel Abraham's name and The School of Economics and Business Administration Library, which bears the name of Dr. Edward L. Steinberg and that of his wife, Judith Abraham Steinberg. Through their benefactions her family has earned a worldwide reputation as giants in philanthropy and her name will be blessed eternally. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Professor Moshe Kaveh, Pres. Bar-Ilan University Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman, Global Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Charles Dimston, Chairman American Board of Trustees Bar-Ilan University Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevey, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
ABRAHAM-Stella The Worldwide family of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted friends and benefactors, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham and Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg, on the loss of their beloved mother. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, Mrs. Abraham was a source of happiness and joy. She was a righteous woman who personified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary dignity. Throughout her life, she exemplified the values of modesty, integrity and kindness and was ever faithful to Am Yisrael, Torat Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael. Today through their support of Shaare Zedek and so many other organizations, the Abraham and Steinberg families carry on the legacy that they learned from their mother. Thanks to their generosity and vision, the Harry, Judith and Leonard Wilf Woman and Infant Center on "Charlie's Floor" rises above the skyline as a beacon of hope to the thousands of patients who are cared for with ultra-modern technology, compassion and dignity. May Daniel, Judith, their brother Jeremiah and the entire family have loving memories of this wonderful and caring woman, and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Lee Weinbach, President National Women's Division Sidney Adler, Treasurer International Board of Directors Jack C. Bendheim, Co-Chair Michael G. Jesselson, Co-Chair Stuart Tauber, Executive Director
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The American Friends of Sanz Medical Center - Laniado Hospital deeply mourn the passing of a true woman of valor, matriarch of an illustrious family synonymous with charity and kindness. Her son S. Daniel-an innovator in Jewish Philanthropy and the quest for peace for Israel-established the S. Daniel Abraham Geriatric Center at Laniado Hospital, Netanya in tribute to his mother's blessing of longevity. Her daughter and son-in-law Judith and Dr. Edward Steinberg are very generously involved in the development of the Geriatric Center and the S. Daniel Abraham Operating Theaters at Netanya's only hospital. Our heartfelt condolences to Judith, S. Daniel and Jeremiah and the entire bereaved family. May the Almighty comfort you among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Stanley M. Hyman Esq, Chairman Sidney Greenwald, Chairman International Board Henry Spitzer, Secretary
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The partners of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle are deeply saddened by the passing of Mrs. Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our dear friends Judith A. Steinberg, S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and the late Roy E. Abraham. She was a deeply religious woman with keen insight. Together with her late beloved husband Dr. Samuel Abraham, she was an inspiration to her family, friends and all who knew her. She lived a long and fruitful life and had the blessing to see the many wonderful accomplishments of her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She will be missed. The Partners of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of S. Daniel Abraham, a dedicated supporter who emulates the extraordinary generosity and humanitarian concerns of a family that is admired for its deep commitment to the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Abraham and his wife, Ewa; Mrs. Abraham's daughter, Judith Steinberg and her husband, Edward; her son, Jeremiah, and his wife, Geula; and the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
ABRAHAM-Stella K. Mesivta Yeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin/Gur Aryeh Institute expresses its heartfelt condolences to our dear friends, Mr. S. Daniel Abraham, Mr. Jerry Abraham, and Mrs. Edward (Judith) Steinberg, on the loss of their beloved mother, Stella K. Abraham a "h. May her memory serve as a blessing for the entire Abraham and Steinberg families and may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Abraham H. Fruchthandler, Pres. Rabbi Y. Mayer Lasker, Exec. Dir. Rabbi Chaim Nate Segal, S. Daniel Abraham Chair for Jewish Outreach & Development
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County extends its heartfelt condolences to Mr. S. Daniel Abraham, Dr. Edward and Judith Steinberg, Mr. Jerry Abraham and the entire Abraham family, on the passing of Stella K. Abraham. A gracious orthodox matriarch, she was committed to Jewish causes, Jewish education, charity and good deeds-qualities she instilled in her family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Moshe Gottesman, Dean Harvey S. Liebman, President Isaac Blachor, Chairman of the Board
ABRAHAM-Stella K. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and its American Associates mourn the passing of Stella Abraham, beloved mother of S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and Judith Abraham Steinberg. A woman of valor whose family honors her with its commitment to the support of causes that strengthen Jewish life and values, and improve the lives of people throughout the world. Professor Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Kenneth L. Tucker, Chairman, AABGU Jules I. Whitman, President, AABGU
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our distinguished friends and generous supporters Judith (and Dr. Edward) Steinberg, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham. Her children have demonstrated through their leadership role in the Jewish community, and their commitment and generosity to Jewish outreach, the values and heritage she implanted in them. May her memory be a blessing. Sincere condolences to the family. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation mourns the passing of Mrs. Stella K. Abraham, the mother of our benefactor, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham, Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ingeborg Rennert, Chairman Samuel Eisenstat, President Alfred Mackler, Treasurer Joseph Loshinsky, Exec V.P. Western Wall Heritage Foundation
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our distinguished benefactor and most generous supporter, S. Daniel Abraham. Her legacy is enriched by the magnanimous and righteous deeds of her children. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May her memory always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, President Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Palm Beach Orthodox Synagogue mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham. We express our heartfelt condolences to Judy Steinberg, wife of our esteemed CoPresident, Dr. Edward Steinberg and to S. Daniel Abraham, our Board Member and to Jerry Abraham, our member. May God comfort the entire family. Moshe E. Scheiner, Rabbi Michael C. Gelfand, M.D., Co-President
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our friend and supporter, S. Daniel Abraham. We extend our deepest condolences to Danny and the entire Abraham family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
ABRAHAM-Stella. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted friend, Mr. Daniel Abraham, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Ramaz School Family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its alumnae parent and very generous benefactor, S. Daniel Abraham and extends heartfelt sympathy to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Directors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: K ABRAHAM HIGH SCHOOL (90%); ILAN UNIVERSITY (65%); SHAARE ZEDEK MEDICAL CENTER (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHAARE ZEDEK MEDICAL CENTER (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); CHILDREN (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: ABRAHAM, STELLA K. S DANIEL ABRAHAM (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



363 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 5;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Says It Will Cut 10,400 Jobs

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Citigroup, one of the country's largest financial services companies, said yesterday that it planned to eliminate about 10,400 jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force, well beyond the several thousand positions it suggested would be cut as recently as October.
An undisclosed but substantial number of the job cuts will involve layoffs. Citigroup said 65 percent, or about 6,760, of the cuts would be overseas. The rest, about 3,640 positions, will be in the United States. 
 When Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc. announced in April that they planned to merge, the companies focused on the financial benefits of the merger and said that cost-cutting and layoffs were not the reasons for the deal. But global financial markets have been pummeled since late summer, forcing Citigroup to adopt less ambitious goals.
"They've wanted the world to believe that this merger was about revenue enhancement and cross-selling," said John Keefe, president of Keefe Worldwide, a financial services consulting firm in New York. "But having a big layoff like this is at cross-purposes with revenue enhancement, particularly if your goal is cross-selling. More and more, the logic of the deal appears to be cost-cutting."
Citigroup employees said that New York, where the company is based, would not bear the brunt of the cutbacks in the United States. Citigroup noted that its telephone call centers, which support businesses like credit cards, would have cutbacks. Call centers abroad would be hardest hit, according to employees involved in the moves. Citigroup's main call centers in the United States are in Jacksonville, Fla.; San Antonio; Las Vegas, Nev.; Sioux Falls, S.D.; Hagerstown, Md.; Kansas City, Mo.; St. Louis, and Erlanger, Ky.
Citigroup comprises a consumer business, which includes operations like traditional loans, savings accounts and credit cards, and a corporate business, which includes operations like investment banking, lending to big companies and trading.
Citigroup said it expected to cut about $525 million in costs from its consumer business and about $350 million from its corporate business.
Citigroup said the largest portion of the job cuts would occur in the consumer business. "These include regional consolidation of call centers and other back-office functions worldwide, reduction of management layers, sales force restructuring and integration of overlapping marketing and product management groups," Citigroup said in yesterday's announcement.
On the corporate side, Citigroup has already been scaling back its trading operation. It said yesterday that it would also make cutbacks in "emerging markets, global relationship banking and investment banking, as the company rationalizes its presence in countries with multiple operations."
Investors cheered the moves. In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Citigroup jumped $2.6875, or 5.8 percent, to $48.75.
Many big Wall Street firms have been announcing layoffs in response to financial turmoil overseas, which has eaten into those companies' profits. Even so, Citigroup has repeatedly played down how large its cutbacks would be.
In October, a Citigroup spokesman, John Morris, said that the bank planned no further job cuts beyond the several thousand that the company had announced in September. Mr. Morris said yesterday that the size of the cutback was determined by Citigroup managers who were told to analyze their operations in September and then determine how many jobs could be cut.
"The businesses have come back with more than had been anticipated at that time," Mr. Morris said yesterday.
Citigroup declined to be more specific yesterday about which businesses or which geographic regions would face cutbacks, although it said it planned to drop "several nonstrategic operations" in both the consumer and corporate businesses.
Citigroup executives have called such unwanted businesses "hobbies" because, in their view, the company lacks either the size or the competence in those arenas to be competitive. It was unclear, however, which operations are about to be abandoned, although Citigroup certainly does not enjoy the advantage of size in businesses like mortgage lending and student loans. There are also some European consumer businesses that may be on the block.
Citigroup has also been forecasting a big fourth-quarter charge for reorganization in recent weeks, and the company said yesterday that it would incur an after-tax charge of about $900 million, "the bulk of which" would be taken in the fourth quarter.
Although Citigroup said at the time of the merger that it expected after-tax savings of about $1 billion a year, it said yesterday that after-tax savings in 1999 would be only about $442 million and that after-tax savings in 2000 would be only about $634 million.
Analysts said that Citigroup might have to be more aggressive about cutbacks if it intended to meet some of its goals.
"This restructuring charge is chump change when you look at the $40 billion cost base of the company," said Diane Glossman, an analyst with Lehman Brothers Inc. "It's just not a big percentage."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday listing layoffs announced this year at major financial institutions misstated the figure for Merrill Lynch. It is 3,400, not 4,300.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Getting Leaner"
Announced layoffs at major financial institutions in 1998.
 
Citigroup -- 10,400
Chase Manhattan -- 4,500
J. P. Morgan -- 850
Merrill Lynch -- 4,300
 
(Source: Challenger, Gray & Christmas)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (68%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (68%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (91%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CALL CENTERS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (86%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); SALES & SELLING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); SALES FORCE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); CHRISTMAS (62%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN MORRIS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998



364 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Backs Stadium For the Patriots In Hartford

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 15

 BODY:
Concluding that big-league status was worth an expensive gamble, the Connecticut General Assembly voted tonight to build a $375 million stadium for the New England Patriots in downtown Hartford and committed millions more to help fill it with fans.
The approval came after eight hours of debate in a one-day special session, with opponents saying that the bill had been rushed and that crucial details remained unknown. Gov. John G. Rowland has said he will sign the bill in the next several weeks. 
 The deal, which even local boosters had considered to be a pipe dream just a month ago, will give Hartford one of 31 National Football League franchises, relocating the Patriots from the Boston area. "This will change the landscape of Hartford and the way we look at our capital city for the rest of our lives," Mr. Rowland declared.
The House approved the measure by a vote of 97 to 49, and the Senate followed with a vote of 27 to 8. Governor Rowland, a Republican, got solid support from his own party, while Democrats were divided.
Tonight, lights in the windows of the 27-story Travelers Tower, a downtown landmark, spelled out a mammoth "N.F.L." Appearing before two dozen news cameras on the first floor of the Capitol about half an hour after the Senate's vote sealed the deal at 10:32 P.M., Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, thanked legislators.
"I look forward to the day when we can bring many championship trophies here, but also to playing a role in bringing back the city of Hartford," he said. He said criticism that he had roped the state into a sweetheart deal resulted from misinformation. "I think we have done a poor job getting the message out on this plan," Mr. Kraft said. "This is a very good deal for the state of Connecticut and the New England Patriots."
Several leading sports economists said the package was unnecessarily generous to the Patriots and constituted the most lucrative lease ever won by the owner of a professional team. In today's debate, opponents worried that the stadium would tie legislators' hands for years to come and load more debt onto a state with a below-average credit rating.
"This is the fleecing of Connecticut," said Representative John Wayne Fox, a Stamford Democrat. "It is unconscionable that we would incur this unknown expense. We don't have answers to our liability, to certain basic questions."
Those who favored the stadium countered that it was a chance to transform Hartford's blighted riverfront and generate excitement in the city, the nation's insurance capital, which has had little to cheer in the decades that manufacturing plants have been moving out and corporations have been consolidating.
"It sends a message to out-of-state businesses that Hartford is not a city that's going to lay down and die," Representative Edward C. Graziani, a Democrat from Ellington, said during today's debate. "You will have tens of millions of people seeing on their screen the city of Hartford."
The Senate President, Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat from West Hartford, called the team's move "the beginning of the end of that sad notion of Connecticut, lost somewhere between Boston and New York." Mr. Rowland presented Mr. Kraft with a license plate emblazoned "NE PATS," the first in a new series of plates declaring Connecticut to be the home of the Patriots.
At the last minute, legislative leaders stripped the bill of a provision that would have automatically granted state environmental permits for the project if regulators failed to act on the applications within 10 days. Representative Jessie G. Stratton, a Canton Democrat, said this "made a mockery of our environmental permitting process," and the review period was extended to 60 days.
Lawmakers repealed a passage to exempt the project from the state's minority set-aside law, so now some contracts must go to companies that are owned by members of minority groups or that are small businesses.
But some House Democrats failed in an effort to retain the rights to sell the stadium's name, which will go to the Patriots and can be worth tens of millions of dollars. "We are funding the stadium 100 percent, but we're not recognizing any of the benefits," said Representative Stephen D. Dargan, a West Haven Democrat.
Renee A. Boicourt, managing director for state ratings at Moody's Investors Service, said the vote moved Connecticut in the opposite direction of many states in the current economic boom by adding debt instead of paying it. "This move will compound an already weak financial picture, and take away some of the long-term upside potential," she said.
Under the agreement, the state will build an open-air stadium on the Connecticut River and provide it to the team rent free for 30 years. The team is assured a profit by a provision requiring the state to pay as much as $13 million a year if luxury seats or suites go unsold. The stadium, with 68,000 seats and a grass field, is supposed to be ready by the fall of 2001, but state officials have told the Patriots that the completion date could well slip by a season.
Mr. Kraft, the team's owner, said he hoped to retain most of the fans from the Patriots' current home at Foxboro Stadium, outside Boston, and to build a following across a wide region, like that enjoyed by the Green Bay Packers. The stadium, which will be shared with the University of Connecticut, will provide a centerpiece for a long-dreamed-of development known as Adriaen's Landing, which is to include a hotel, shops and a convention center.
Initially, Connecticut officials had feared that they were being used as a bargaining chip by Mr. Kraft, who had spent years trying to negotiate a subsidy for a new stadium from the Massachusetts legislature. But Mr. Kraft said today that he would not give Massachusetts a chance to match the Connecticut offer. "If it's passed, we're coming," he said this morning.
The project faces several more hurdles. A steam plant is now on the land and moving it could cost as much as $100 million -- none of which is included in the budget for the stadium. The ground is also contaminated with coal tar left over from a gas plant that operated there from the late 1800's until 1950.
Since the tentative agreement was announced last month, Mr. Kraft has lobbied legislators in patrician, avuncular tones, assuring them of his desire to be a partner in the city's redevelopment, and has even worked to sell it to the public by taking questions from fans at a Hartford sports bar during a satellite television appearance on the eve of the vote. This morning, the Governor and Mr. Kraft were heralded with the "Rocky" theme as they appeared together at a breakfast of business leaders.
Mr. Kraft spent much of the day in the Governor's office, and the team's lobbyists shuttled in undecided or wavering lawmakers for private chats with him.
When it was first announced, the stadium deal was lauded by members of both major parties, whose leaders predicted it would sail through the legislature with only token opposition. But as they learned of the deal's generous terms, many legislators began to turn against it, forcing the Governor to reopen talks with Mr. Kraft.
Last weekend, the team owner and the Governor seemed to turn the tide back in their direction by cutting the state's guarantees for luxury boxes and seats by about 25 percent. State budget officials estimate that, considering inflation, that still amounts to $1 billion over the 30 years of the lease. But the state and Mr. Kraft have vowed to work together to sell the seats so that few, if any, guarantees will ever have to be paid.
Opponents maintained until the end that the deal had been too hastily assembled and was too lopsided in favor of the team. "My constituents didn't send me here to make Mr. Kraft rich," said Senator Edith G. Prague, a Columbia Democrat.
Representative Andrew M. Fleishmann, a West Hartford Democrat, protested the rush in adopting the bill, which was not vetted by any of the seven committees that normally would have reviewed it. "This process was, for us in the legislative branch, a mugging," he said.
But the Governor dismissed the critics as "small-minded people that have said: 'Well, it costs too much. It's in the wrong location. Where are we going to put the Port-O-Lets?' "
And to the critics who said the money could be better used, Representative Robert Farr, a West Hartford Republican, declared that the coliseums and cathedrals of Europe were a tribute to leaders who recognized that "cities are more than simply dealing with crime and poverty."
 
Among the Deal's Details, Guarantee for Some Sales
Here are key provisions of the stadium deal between the New England Patriots and the State of Connecticut:
 
PATRIOTS
*Will move the team's headquarters to Hartford.
*Will play all preseason, regular-season and postseason home games (except any Super Bowl game) in the stadium.
*Will pay a tax of 10 percent on all ticket sales.
*Will keep "all revenues from or relating to the stadium," including money from signs and naming rights.
*Will allow the University of Connecticut to use the stadium for home football games.
*Will keep concession revenue except from University of Connecticut games.
*Will keep catering revenue from University of Connecticut games.
*Will invest at least $70 million in a hotel and National Football League pavilion near the stadium.
*Will provide $5 million over five years for youth football programs in Connecticut.
*Will pay off the bonds remaining on the stadium, and the money the state would have collected from the ticket tax for the rest of the lease, if the team leaves the stadium before the end of the 30-year lease.
 
CONNECTICUT
Will build an open-air stadium, with 61,000 general-admission seats, 6,000 club seats and 150 luxury suites at an estimated cost of $375 million.
*Will provide the stadium, rent free, to the Patriots for 30 years.
*Will pay the team as much as $13 million a year if luxury suites and club seats fail to sell out.
*Will create a fund to pay for major stadium repairs, growing to $115 million over 30 years.
*Will improve roads "with a goal of achieving full crowd ingress and egress within a period of one hour or less."
*Will pay for the Patriots' property, casualty and general-liability insurance.
*Will pay $15 million for a practice and training center for the Patriots at an undecided location somewhere in Connecticut.
*Will own the stadium and the land it occupies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the Connecticut House voted for a new stadium for the New England Patriots, the House Speaker, Thomas D. Ritter, right, and Hartford's Mayor, Michael P. Peters, held up a celebratory T-shirt yesterday. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map of Hartford, showing the location of the proposed new football stadium: A proposed football stadium would be built in downtown Hartford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); 

PERSON: JOHN G ROWLAND (66%); ROBERT K KRAFT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



365 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD;
The Uffizi Benefits as Italy Updates

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Dec. 14

 BODY:
Visitors have long found the entrance hall of the Uffizi Gallery to be about as warm and welcoming as Lenin's Tomb. People lined up outside for hours, and for the last 10 years vast rooms on the ground floor were closed off and used for storage. After a 1993 bombing attributed to the Mafia killed five people and damaged dozens of artworks, the ground floor was also crammed with rubble from the explosion.
This week, Italy unveiled what it calls the New Uffizi, a major renovation that in addition to repairing damaged rooms added more than 20,000 square feet of museum space, including a new annex for a collection of 144 artworks that have never been shown before. It is the most recent and stunning example of how Italy is seeking to renovate its 760 state museums and monuments and introduce contemporary forms of merchandising at the most important ones. 
 The ground floor of an entire wing of the Uffizi has been reclaimed for visitors: the museum now boasts a bookshop, a coat room, an elegant cafe, a multimedia information center and an electronic ticketing service for advance reservations, promising to reduce the legendarily long lines outside the museum. (Lines could still be long inside.)
The Uffizi Gallery, built for the Medicis in the 16th century by Giorgio Vasari, has some of the most famous artworks in Europe, including Botticelli's "Birth of Venus" and Leonardo da Vinci's "Annunciation." It has long been one of the most eagerly visited museums in Italy. But until this week, tourists who tried to check their coats, buy a postcard or grab a sandwich did so in cramped, dingy places more reminiscent of a Greyhound bus station than one of the world's most important museums. Until 1994, the museum closed at 1 P.M.
"I waited forever," Daniel Berger said, recalling his first visit to the Uffizi in 1956. "All I remember is the line. I don't remember a single painting."
Mr. Berger, who is in charge of merchandising at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, was hired as a consultant by the Italian Ministry of Culture in 1993 to help bring modern marketing techniques to the country's art-rich and service-poor museums. "When you go to a museum, you want it to be clean and well-lit, you want a bookstore with postcards, clean bathrooms and a place to sit down and snack," Mr. Berger explained. "That's what everybody wants."
The opening of the New Uffizi, which cost the Government $15 million (a third of which was raised through the national lottery), is the first step in a plan to triple the museum's exhibition space by 2000.
The effort to capitalize on Italy's extraordinary assemblage of museums is growing. This year, for example, the Palazzo Massimo in Rome, a collection of ancient Roman art, was created -- with a glitzy museum shop -- from the reorganization of the national Roman museum. After closing for a year for repairs, the late-19th-century wing of Rome's National Modern Art Gallery reopened last week. Last year, the modern art museum also unveiled a restored wing devoted to early-19th-century art as well as a chic restaurant with terrace dining overlooking the Villa Borghese.
Palazzo Barberini, a national gallery known for its collection of Renaissance and Baroque art, was once famously neglected. This year it opened a bookstore, a new entrance and beautifully renovated exhibition rooms.
Aside from killing five people, the 1993 bombing in Florence destroyed two priceless paintings. But it also uncovered hidden treasures, 18th-century frescoes that were long painted over. This week, a building attached to the Uffizi that was badly damaged by the bomb was unveiled as a new wing containing the Contini Bonacossi collection of 144 artworks, including a painting by Giovanni Bellini and a sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini.
The collection was donated to the Uffizi in the late 1950's, but the gallery had no room to show it, so the paintings were stored in the nearby Pitti Palace, where scholars could view them only on special request.
Until the bombing, that part of the Uffizi had been divided into private apartments and rented out by the state. The Government reclaimed the apartments after the bombing, and workers discovered and restored the frescoes. "The paintings we lost we will never recover, but we refound the apartments," said Mario Lolli Ghetti, superintendant for architecture and environment in Florence. "The bomb gave us back apartments we would never otherwise have gotten."
The improvements were long awaited. "It should have happened a lot sooner," Antonio Paolucci, the city's Superintendent of Fine Arts and a former Minister of Culture, said rather grumpily as he led a tour around the newly restored 60,000-volume art book library on the second floor, which had also served as a warehouse. "Italy has finally realized that its art is a formidable instrument for economic and social progress." He added, "Lets face it, Italy is not first in anything anymore except its artistic heritage."
Last year Walter Veltroni, then the Minister of Culture, ordered some major museums to stay open until 11:30 P.M. on summer weekends. This year the number was doubled to 69. Close to 30 museums, including the Uffizi, now stay open until 10 P.M every working day from April to October, In the last two years, Italy has added 30 bookshops and six museum cafes.
Mr. Veltroni was replaced in October when the Government of Romano Prodi was ousted. But his successor, Giovanna Melandri, is keen on keeping his experiment going. Mr. Veltroni's plan to hire 1,000 students and college graduates as as guides in 44 principal museums on weekends is expected to start next month, after a 1999 budget is passed.
But Italy's transition to the modern museum age is not uncontested. Museum workers are union members, and they have long viewed the ministry's efforts to lengthen museum hours and reduce full-time personnel with suspicion. In Italy it is almost impossible to dismiss state employees, but the ministry has reduced the numbers by not replacing museum workers who retire.
Unions initially supported the changes, hoping that the renovations and increased spending would create more museum jobs. Now, however, they complain that the Government wants more work done by fewer workers. "There's a big problem with the New Uffizi," said Enzo Feliciani, a union representative in Florence. "the bookstore, the ticketing booth all seem great, but they risk being closed down right after they open because there won't be enough employees to staff them."
So far, the country's efforts to display its heritage better have paid off. This year sales from museum cafes, bookstores and gift shops reached $15.6 million. Such revenue became possible only in 1994, when Italy passed a law permitting state museums to subcontract museum services to private companies.
"It's the profit motive," said Mr. Berger of the Met. "It kind of works."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Persian painting: Detail of "Karim Zhan Zand With a Water Pipe." (Brooklyn Museum of Art); Detail of a work about life in Montmartre in "Counter Culture: Parisian Cabarets and the Avant-Garde," at the Grey Art Gallery in the Village. (Collection of the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey)(pg. E1); A restorer in the Uffizi applies finishing touches to a statue damaged in a 1993 blast attributed to the Mafia. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. E2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); BOOKSTORES (67%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (66%); TICKET AGENCIES (66%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (63%); LOTTERIES (60%); 

PERSON: DANIEL BERGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



366 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: PROSECUTORS SEE NO BIAS IN PINOCHET CASE -- Prosecutors told the House of Lords that its decision to let Gen. Augusto Pinochet be arrested in England and held on a Spanish extradition petition was not tainted by bias. The former Chilean dictator's lawyers want the Lords to set aside the ruling because of disclosures that the law lord who cast the decisive vote, Lord Hoffmann, was associated with Amnesty International. A decision on the appeal is expected on Thursday. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: BILL TO PRINT MONEY -- The Parliament passed a bill to print $1.2 billion, to help the Government pay workers and pensioners, among others. With inflation at 70 percent this year, the infusion could push prices higher. (AP) 

GERMANY: HITLER'S A-BOMB PLANS -- The German Museum in Munich plans to display previously secret details of Hitler's effort to make the first atomic bomb. The United States seized papers after World War II, and they were returned in the 1970's to a German research center. Historians have been promised access to Nazi scientists' writings. (NYT)
 
NETHERLANDS: U.N. DEFENDS SEALED CHARGES -- The Chief Prosecutor for the United Nations, Louise Arbour, defended using sealed indictments to trap suspected war criminals and deflected Russian criticism of her methods. The International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia began keeping charges secret last year to avoid alerting its targets. (Reuters)
 
AZERBAIJAN: 2 NEWSPAPERS FINED IN LIBEL CASE -- Two opposition newspapers have been fined more than $225,000 for libeling Government leaders, including President Heydar Aliyev and his family. The newspapers, Azadlyg and Yeni Musavat, said they would refuse to pay the fines, calling the verdicts politically motivated. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA, CHILE: PACT ON PATAGO-NIAN ICE FIELD -- A treaty to delineate a disputed glacial region in Patagonia was signed by Presidents Eduardo Frei, left, of Chile and Carlos Menem of Argentina. The region has been a thorn in their relations for decades. The accord on the 950-square-mile ice field succeeds a 1991 treaty that neither legislature ratified. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
HAITI: DUVALIER SEEN IN FRANCE -- Jean-Claude Duvalier, the ousted dictator, has been seen in Paris and Cannes, police officials said. The French Government has said that it had lost track of him and that he might have left France. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
BURKINA FASO: CONFERENCE ON CONGO PEACE -- African heads of state will again try to bring peace to Congo at a meeting today in Ouagadougou. The main participants in the conflict, which has involved seven countries, are expected to attend. (Agence France-Presse)
 
ERITREA: MIG'S OVER ERITREA -- Russian MIG-29 jet fighters were seen flying over Asmara this week, confirming speculation that the Eritrean Air force had acquired as many as 10 planes as its border dispute with Ethiopia continues. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
HONG KONG: WALKOUT BY DEMOCRACY ADVOCATES -- Advocates of democracy walked out of a legislative meeting to protest a government proposal to appoint some district council members rather than hold elections. Under the proposal Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa would appoint 1 in 5 positions on the district boards, a move that liberal legislators criticized as a rollback of democracy. (AP)
 
JAPAN: $5 BILLION IN REBUILDING LOANS -- Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi announced $5.1 billion in low-interest loans to help troubled Asian countries rebuild their devastated economies. Mr. Obuchi told the annual meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that the loans would go to countries that were "doing their utmost to reform their economic structures."' (AP)
 
INDIA: ANGERED BY U.S. CRITICISM -- Speaking before Parliament, External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh called the United States "sanctions crazy" for imposing penalties against India because it developed its nuclear weapons program. Mr. Singh accused Washington of "astonishing and unacceptable arrogance" in preaching the opposite of what it practiced. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); ENGLAND (92%); ERITREA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); CHILE (94%); ARGENTINA (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); ENGLAND (92%); ERITREA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); VERDICTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); PETITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); HISTORY (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: AUGUSTO PINOCHET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



367 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Allies Toughen Policy to Reward And Punish Bosnian Leaders

BYLINE: By AL GOODMAN

DATELINE: MADRID, Dec. 16

 BODY:
In a move intended to strengthen the Bosnian peace accord, the United States and other countries agreed here today to reward more aggressively those Bosnian leaders who comply with the pact and punish those who do not.
The enhanced carrot-and-stick policy will still be under the control of the top civilian international official in Bosnia, Carlos Westendorp. Mr. Westendorp was given added authority to remove Bosnian leaders from political posts if they obstructed the 1995 peace accord, especially a provision that lets war refugees return home to areas that other ethnic groups control. And he was given added input over allocating the $1.5 billion in annual foreign aid to Bosnia. 
 The accord was reached among the 46 donor nations at the Bosnian Peace Implementation Council here, the third such meeting since the three-year war ended in 1995.
President Clinton's special representative for carrying out the Bosnian peace plan, Robert S. Gelbard, said Mr. Westendorp's expanded authority should be wielded only on rare occasions.
"We're caught in somewhat of a bind," Mr. Gelbard said. "It's essential for the Bosnian parties to assume responsibility for their future. But there are times, when to break an impasse, it is important to be able to cut through the political tangles that exist."
The two-day meeting ended today with the approval of a document that lays out the most detailed plan yet for the return of an estimated one million refugees and for economic changes to create jobs and compete financially without relying on foreign aid.
The donor nations warned that they would soon reduce aid, although an immediate pullout of the 34,000 foreign troops is not widely expected.
The 39-page document lists a two-year timetable for broad changes, including creating an independent judiciary and multiethnic police forces, a program that Mr. Westendorp said should "make the peace irreversible."
One dissenting voice, Western officials said, was Nikola Poplasen, recently elected leader of the Bosnian Serb republic. Considered a hard-liner by the United States, Mr. Poplasen worried at a news conference here on Tuesday that Mr. Westendorp was growing too powerful.
Another Bosnian Serb leader, Milorad Dodik, told reporters here today about a new atmosphere of cooperation in Bosnia. Mr. Dodik praised Mr. Westendorp's authority to "impose a solution when a mutual accord cannot be found."
Mr. Westendorp has dismissed seven Bosnian officials who he thought opposed the peace plan. But some of the officials stayed active and influential in their political parties, a practice that Mr. Westendorp will have added authority to prohibit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PEACE PROCESS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); REFUGEES (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); ETHNICITY (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



368 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
In the health care business, size can ultimately benefit patients.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein

 BODY:
AETNA INC.'s proposed purchase of the health care business of the Prudential Insurance Company of America has touched off concern among doctors and consumers, but Aetna's large size could ultimately benefit patients.
The acquisition would create the nation's largest health insurer, serving 1 in every 10 Americans and writing contracts with at least half of the nation's physicians. Doctors fear the behemoth will harden Aetna's already aggressive assault on tests and procedures it deems excessive, and some consumer advocates worry that an enlarged Aetna will bully patients. Rival insurance companies recoil at the prospect of competing against a company with the market power to negotiate steep discounts with hospitals. 
 But Aetna's new heft will give it only 10 percent of the national market and up to 30 percent of some regional markets. Those are not formidable numbers. Besides, there are ample remedies if the antitrust authorities find local pockets of excessive concentration.
Critics also overlook a powerful reason in favor of the takeover. If insurance companies spent most of the last decade belligerently cutting costs, they will probably spend the next decade evaluating the quality of patient care. Here, large plans will have a decisive advantage. Tight oversight of patient care requires expensive computer systems only large insurance companies can afford.
Aetna is creating such systems. So too is New York State's largest insurer, Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield. In a rapidly evolving business, size becomes the patient's friend.
Richard L. Huber, the president of Aetna, said as much when he announced the deal last week for Prudential Health Care. Yesterday, he predicted that "the period of cutting more out of the hides of physicians and hospitals is over." He added, "In the future we will use our incredible data base to find out who is going to get sick tomorrow so we can do something about it today." The large size of Mr. Huber's company does not guarantee success. But without large size, it might well fail.
Size will help insurance companies create computerized data systems that track diagnoses, treatments and prescriptions. The idea is to flag errant care before it does harm. The huge development costs for these computer systems can only be absorbed if the insurer can spread the expense over many patients.
Aetna has been developing clinical information systems for almost a decade. Every time one of its 16 million customers files a claim for a procedure, test or drug, the transaction enters Aetna's computer files. Aetna distributes reports to each of its physicians once or twice a year, telling them how their treatment of several prominent medical problems compares with that of their peers.
The physicians learn, for example, how many of their diabetes patients, compared with diabetics nationwide, received an annual eye exam. Aetna reports how many of the doctors' patients filled their drug prescriptions and how many of their asthma patients suffered attacks severe enough to send them to a hospital emergency room. The company contends that doctors are responding to its reports by slowly bringing their treatment practices in line with recommendations by the major medical societies.
Empire has created a sophisticated oversight system that so far covers about 100,000 enrollees, including employees of Merrill Lynch & Company and Circuit City Stores Inc. The important feature of Empire's system, says its president, Michael Stocker, is instant feedback.
Each day, Empire runs data on each of the 100,000 enrollees through its computer to search for "triggers" -- events, like admission to a hospital or prescription for a new drug -- that justify subjecting the patient's medical record to careful scrutiny. Empire says it pulls about 60 files a day for close examination. It then turns the files over to a company that examines the patient's labs tests, prescriptions and medical procedures for evidence of mistaken diagnoses or inappropriate treatment. The files are referred to academic specialists for independent review.
If the review turns up a problem, Empire's doctors call the patient's physicians to suggest corrections. Empire says it makes one or two such calls a day. Jamie Court, a consumer advocate, supports the use of computer systems "when their purpose is to root out errors rather than to deny care for the purpose of cutting costs."
Empire points to cases where errant care was corrected before it did harm. A patient admitted to a hospital for knee surgery led to a finding that he had been taking a unnecessarily dangerous drug to combat colitis. Another patient was found to be taking a blood thinner she did not need but not taking anti-cholesterol drugs that she did need. Nor, her records indicated, had she been properly examined for peptic ulcer disease. A third patient was found to be taking duplicate drugs both to lower her cholesterol and to lower her blood pressure. Empire's system provides daily checks, rather than the quarterly and annual reports of many other clinical-data systems.
Health maintenance organizations argue that by putting a single physician -- called a gatekeeper -- in charge of a patient's care, they eliminate inconsistent therapies. Otherwise patients are prone to visit multiple doctors who know little, if anything, of one another's existence. The intriguing feature of clinical-data systems is that they harness computers to perform some of the error checking that gatekeepers perform. There remains the important task of persuading patients and physicians to adopt wise counsel, a difficult problem that may turn out to be managed care's true advantage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (98%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (98%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (91%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INSURANCE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIABETES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); EYE TESTING (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



369 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Quintiles to Buy Envoy for $1.7 Billion in Stock

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW

 BODY:
In its third acquisition to be announced this week, the Quintiles Transnational Corporation, the nation's largest provider of clinical drug trials, said yesterday that it would buy the Envoy Corporation for $1.7 billion in stock.
Quintiles, based in Research Triangle Park, N.C., has made several acquisitions this year to broaden its range of pharmaceutical services. Aside from conducting clinical trials, the company has become a leading industry provider of sales support and marketing information. 
 By acquiring Envoy, a health-claims processing company in Nashville, Quintiles will be able to expand its marketing base for prescription drugs. Envoy is expected to process 1.2 billion claims this year from doctors, pharmacies, hospitals and health maintenance organizations.
"This purchase gives us a lot of information," said Dennis Gillings, the chief executive of Quintiles.
"We don't compete now with I.M.S. Health," a company that measures pharmaceutical sales trends, he added. "But this purchase will enable us to deliver more real-time data than they do currently."
Analysts considered the deal fairly priced. Quintiles will exchange 1.166 of its shares for each Envoy share, valuing Envoy stock at $65.51 a share, a 55 percent premium based on Tuesday's closing prices.
The deal may be terminated, though, if shares of Quintiles trade beyond a range of $40 to $71.50.
Investor reaction was mixed. Shares of Envoy rose 18.9 percent, or $8, to $50.25. The Quintiles shares fell 18.4 percent, or $10.3125, to $45.875. The selloff in the stock surprised Mr. Gillings and some analysts.
"Investors may have walked because that was Quintiles's third deal in a week," said Kenneth Miller, a senior analyst with Hambrecht & Quist. "They believe the company has bitten off more than it can chew. People may also assume that the deal means there is a problem in the company's core business."
On Monday, Quintiles said it would acquire a drug-development center in Missouri from Hoechst A.G. for $93 million in cash. On Tuesday, the company said it would buy Pharmaceutical Marketing Services, including its Scott-Levin drug-marketing unit, for $197 million in stock.
Analysts and investors were also concerned that Quintiles might not meet earnings projections for next year -- $1.37 to $1.40 a share, according to Zacks Investment Research. Though company executives said yesterday that earnings would meet expectations, analysts had thought the company would surpass them.
"Some investors may not have known what to make of this deal," Mr. Gillings said. "In one sense, it may have looked like Envoy and Quintiles didn't know much about each other. That may have forced these people to spend the day scratching their heads trying to figure it out."
While the Quintiles expansion plan is aggressive -- the company has made more than a dozen acquisitions this year -- analysts have generally applauded it.
Mr. Gillings has moved into contract sales -- renting the services of Quintiles salespeople to sell products for other companies -- and marketing information, a crucial commodity as more drug companies advertise directly to consumers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: Q (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (96%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); ENVOY CORP (91%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (53%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (52%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); PHARMACIES (70%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: DENNIS GILLINGS (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



370 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Italy Ending House Arrest Of Rebel Chief Of the Kurds

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: ROME, Dec. 16

 BODY:
An appeals court in Rome freed a Kurdish rebel leader from house arrest today, further inflaming a bitter diplomatic dispute between Italy and Turkey.
The court determined that Italy had no grounds for detaining Abdullah Ocalan, leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party, which has been fighting for self-determination in southeast Turkey. But Italy's Prime Minister, Massimo D'Alema, quickly said Mr. Ocalan would nevertheless be kept under police surveillance. 
 After the ruling, Turkish officials, already furious with Italy for refusing to extradite Mr. Ocalan to Turkey, expressed outrage and renewed threats of economic retaliation against Italy.
"It will damage Turkish-Italian relations and international law," Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin told Turkish television reporters.
Italy has refused to extradite Mr. Ocalan, who is wanted in Turkey on terrorism charges, because of a law that bans the extradition of prisoners to countries with a death penalty.
Mr. Ocalan was arrested by the Italian police in Rome on Nov. 12 while trying to enter Italy from Moscow on a false passport. Shortly after his arrest, he requested political asylum in Italy.
Italy, which quickly found Mr. Ocalan's presence burdensome, has so far been unable to persuade other European countries to take him off its hands.
Germany, which issued a warrant for Mr. Ocalan's arrest in 1990 on homicide charges, declined to ask for his extradition, fearing repercussions from Turkey and from Turks living in Germany. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder said an international court should try him, but did not volunteer Germany as a venue.
Italy has also suggested that an international trial might be a suitable way of bringing Mr. Ocalan to justice, but was hoping that the court could convene elsewhere in Europe.
Today, both Mr. D'Alema and Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini said Italy would either have to make Mr. Ocalan available for trial or expel him. Neither one mentioned a third option: granting him political asylum.
Early on, Mr. D'Alema, a former Communist, refused to rule out political asylum, a choice favored by some leftists in his coalition. But pressure from Turkey and the United States, which also regards Mr. Ocalan as a terrorist, has made political asylum less palatable. Human rights groups have also accused Mr. Ocalan of killing civilians.
That pressure led Italy and other countries to consider the option of a trial in an international court. But Turkey is vehemently opposed, worried that Mr. Ocalan would try to use such a trial as a forum for airing the grievances of the Kurdish separatist movement.
Mr. D'Alema said today, "Since Turkey does not intend to back a trial for Ocalan outside its territory, this situation represents a very serious obstacle to the search for any solution."
Lawyers representing Mr. Ocalan said that though he was free to leave Rome, he had decided to stay in the apartment where he had been held under house arrest and await a decision on political asylum. A commission of the Interior Ministry was expected to decide on asylum by the end of December or early January.
Mr. D'Alema suggested today that a decision might come sooner. "At this point, it may be necessary to accelerate certain decisions," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); TURKEY (95%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); TURKEY (95%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); ROME, ITALY (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXTRADITION (93%); ARRESTS (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); HOUSE ARREST (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TERRORISM (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



371 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
In the wake of declining ad income, Ziff-Davis is on the lookout for new revenue sources.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
FACED with a significant drop in computer and software advertising, Ziff-Davis Inc., the publisher of high-technology magazines, is pursuing new sources of ad income from car, electronic commerce and other companies.
According to Adscope, of Eugene, Ore., which tracks technology advertising in 400 computer, telecommunications, special interest and consumer publications, technology ad expenditures fell 4 percent in the third quarter compared with figures in the period a year earlier. Revenue dropped 10 percent for computer and telecommunications titles in particular. Adscope also said third-quarter technology advertising revenues were down 8.7 percent for Ziff-Davis and down 7 percent and 11.8 percent, respectively, for its competitors IDG and CMP Media Inc. For the first nine months of the year, compared with the period a year earlier, this spending was down 6.9 percent for Ziff-Davis, down 1 percent for CMP and up 5.2 percent for IDG, Adscope said. 
 Claude Sheer, the former president of Ziff-Davis Publishing who was recently named the company's chief Internet strategist, attributed the decline in technology advertising to four factors: computer companies diverting advertising money to solving the Year 2000 problem; the downturn in the Asian economy, which has depressed computer sales in the region; consolidation within the computer industry, which has cut into ad budgets, and fewer introductions of new computer products, which has also diminished advertising.
"If any one of these happened by itself, it would have been a minor speed bump, but for all four to occur in one year, it's gotten to be a pretty big deal pretty quickly," he said.
As a result of the decline, Ziff-Davis, which is 70 percent owned by Softbank, a Japanese distributor of software, shut down 3 of its 15 magazines, Internet Business, Equip and Windows Pro, in October and laid off 10 percent of its work force of 3,500.
In addition, it is revising its advertising strategy, going after categories that have not traditionally promoted their products or services in Ziff-Davis's titles.
The largest of these categories is automotive advertisers, which the publisher has pursued for the last several years, stepping up its efforts during the summer. To reach this group, Ziff-Davis set up an ad sales office in Detroit in June. It also commissioned a study by ICR, a market research firm in Media, Pa., which it said found that 10 million of the 71 million American consumers who went on line in the third quarter researched a car or light-truck purchase. According to Ziff-Davis, the survey also found that on-line car researchers were twice as likely as the general population to read a computer publication. And it said the demographics of its readers, mostly college-educated males with high household incomes, closely matched the demographics of on-line auto shoppers.
Ziff-Davis said automotive advertising in its four titles that carry car ads -- PC Magazine, PC Computing, Yahoo! Internet Life and Family PC -- rose to 98.5 pages in the first nine months of this year from 60 in the period a year earlier. New advertisers included Volkswagen, Isuzu and Nissan; Ford, General Motors and Suburu increased their buys.
Electronic commerce companies are another category Ziff-Davis is eager to cultivate. Companies that have already bought space include Playboy.com, Cyberian Outpost and Catalogcity.com.
E-Trade Group Inc., the on-line investment company based in Palo Alto, Calif., is about to sign an agreement with Ziff-Davis, worth more than $5 million, to promote its services through Ziff-Davis's magazines and on ZDTV and ZDTV.com, its cable television channel and the channel's Web site. Officials of both companies declined to specify the length of the agreement. In addition, Computershopper.com, the electronic commerce channel on ZDNet.com, Ziff-Davis's Web site, is participating in the electronic marketplace on E-Trade's Web site, Etrade.com.
Jerry Gramaglia, E-Trade's senior vice president for marketing, said the wide range of programs involved in the agreement would allow E-Trade "to hit the bull's-eye of our target," investors who are 35 and older, computer savvy and mostly male. "We will be able to shift in and out of the programs to maximize efficiency," he said.
Cindy Giller, senior vice president and group media director of Young & Rubicam in San Francisco, said that the circulation of Ziff-Davis's two most popular computer magazines -- PC Magazine and PC Computing -- and of IDG's PC World "puts them in the broader category for consumer advertising capabilities."
"The whole category is changing, broadening out," she said. "People who use computers are not as niched as they used to be. That's why these magazines' circulations are growing, and that's why they're viewed as consumer titles, not computer niche trade publications."
Ms. Giller also said that computer magazine readers who were eager to stay in the forefront of technology might have similar feelings about cars, which could make these publications attractive to advertisers.
Sam Whitmore, a former editor in chief of PC Week and the publisher of an on-line newsletter that analyzes technology media, commended Ziff-Davis's efforts to promote all of its products in one package to E-Trade, something he said the competitors IDG or CMP could not offer.
"This is a very new direction for computer publishers," Mr. Whitmore said. "Ziff-Davis is trying to get out from under being a trade publisher. If they stay a trade publisher, they'll wither."
Meanwhile, Mike Perlis, who succeeded Mr. Sheer as president of Ziff-Davis Publishing in November, said the magazines would also pursue other nontechnology advertisers, including financial services companies and those in the fashion, credit card, liquor, consumer electronics and telecommunications industries that are beginning to market their products on line.
"As companies start making selling on the Web a big piece of their strategy, reaching people with knowledge of this will be important," he said. "If they put together our raw demographics, and the fact that our readers are more likely to participate in the Web, they're buying a good one-two punch." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMPX (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CMP MEDIA INC (70%); ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); OREGON, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); EUGENE, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (94%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (85%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (51%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



372 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Minnesota Mining Expects Earnings Declineof 10%

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, one of the nation's industrial and manufacturing giants, warned today that slumping global sales and a slowdown at home would probably cut fourth-quarter earnings 10 percent from the comparable quarter a year earlier.
The announcement by 3M, which makes Post-it notes, Scotch tapes and consumer health products, sent the company's shares down $2.375 each, to $71.375, and is just the latest jolt to hit some of the nation's largest corporations. 
 Since late November, share prices have been sliding after a sharp run-up in October, and that selloff has been intensified by unnerving news from Washington and the onset of the season when American companies traditionally warn Wall Street that they may not meet expectations in their next quarterly report.
The 3M announcement, which encouraged Wall Street to lower its already bleak expectations, lengthens the list of ailing companies that constitute the widely followed Dow Jones industrial average. Of the 30 companies in that stock average, at least 8 have issued earnings warnings this month, and several others have announced reorganization plans or huge layoffs.
The list, of course, is a Who's Who in corporate America: Boeing; Coca-Cola; Merck; Sears, Roebuck; Union Carbide, and Caterpillar. Boeing will cut 20,000 jobs in the next year; Citigroup -- another Dow component -- also issued bad news on Tuesday, saying it would cut 10,400 jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force. The stock of a ninth company, Procter & Gamble, fell sharply last week after it said growth in the number of products sold would not meet expectations in the quarter.
Those announcements have caused the Dow to fall 5 percent from its all-time high over the last few weeks and, for a broader group of investors, the parade of warnings has heightened concerns that the nation's best and brightest companies continue to suffer from global economic turmoil and even threatened to topple a seven-year-long bull market in the United States.
"We're going through the same thing we've gone through in the last few quarters: management is saying things aren't as good as they used to be," said Marshall Acuff, the chief market strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "There are increasing pressures on profit margins for more and more companies, and that pressure is intensifying."
Not all the news is bad, however. For example, the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, said today that it expected its profits to be above Wall Street estimates in 1999.
The 3M warning -- which comes a day after Caterpillar advised of earnings trouble -- is the third time the company has issued a warning in the last five quarters and signals what could be the company's first profit-growth retreat in seven years. It also comes on the same day that shares of Dow Chemical and other chemical companies plunged after Eastman Chemical, one of the largest producers of plastic bottles, forecast sharply lower earnings because of falling demand and prices in Asia and elsewhere.
Although 3M, which is based in St. Paul, will see earnings growth this year, sales growth is slowing around the globe and the company is continuing with a plan announced earlier this year to cut 4,500 jobs, about 2,000 by the end of this year.
About 50 percent of 3M's business comes from overseas, and in Latin America and Asia, excluding Japan, sales are down sharply. In Japan and Europe, sales growth continues, but moderately. But currency translation is hitting the company hard, a spokesman said, and will reduce per-share earnings about 7 percent in the fourth quarter.
Because global manufacturing is slumping, along with commodity prices, demand for 3M products, including even highway reflector signs in the United States, is slumping.
But 3M's predicament is overshadowing much of the manufacturing sector in America. A glut of steel is hurting the steel industry and slackening demand for construction and farm equipment is hurting companies like Deere and Caterpillar.
Wall Street analysts say the hardest-hit companies appear to be in the manufacturing sector, which may be why the Dow average, which is more heavily weighted with industrial companies, is lagging behind other market gauges, which are more technology heavy.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Heeded Warnings"
After these Dow companies warned this month that their fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than expected, their stock prices have slipped.

		Stock price			% change			DAY BEFORE		Date of	WARNING TO		warning	YESTERDAY	 	 	 	Boeing Dec.	2	Down 20.4	Caterpillar Dec.	15	Down 10.5	Union Carbide Dec.	8	Down 8.5	Sears, Roebuck Dec.	2	Down 6.9	J. P. Morgan Dec.	9	Down 5.7	Minnesota Mining	Yesterday	Down 3.2	Coca-Cola Dec.	11	Down 1.9	
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (86%); MMM (NYSE) (86%); MMM (FRA) (86%); UAL (NYSE) (61%); KO (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (86%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (86%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (86%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (61%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (61%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: 3M CO (86%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (61%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); BOEING CO (55%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); CITIGROUP INC (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



373 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Weather Has a Mixed Impact on Economy

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Mild weather was a boon to home building in November, extending the construction season. But it sapped industrial output, as utilities scaled back output, the Government said today.
The reports indicated strong demand for new homes at the same time that manufacturers were feeling growing strain from weaker exports to Asia. 
 The Commerce Department said builders broke ground on new homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.65 million units last month, down 2.7 percent from October but still a hearty pace.
 Separately, the Federal Reserve said November industrial production eased three-tenths of 1 percent after rising two-tenths of 1 percent in October. For the second consecutive month, utilities cut output because of reduced heating needs as businesses over all ran at their slowest operating rate in more than five years.
 The industrial output report showed the nation's mines, factories and utilities ran at 80.6 percent of capacity last month, the lowest since a matching rate in August 1993. It was the third month in a row that operating rates fell. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); WEATHER (89%); HOUSING STARTS (88%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



374 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Seeking anEven Exchange;
Small Firms Say Group That Oversees Nasdaq Favors Giants

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Bigger is better. That seems to be the view of Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, the nation's largest self-regulatory organization and parent of the Nasdaq stock market.
As head of an organization that oversees some 5,500 member brokerage firms, Mr. Zarb's domain is already plenty big. But he wants to become the world's No. 1 market for stocks and has recently acquired the American Stock Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and is expected to announce a Nasdaq alliance with the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong as early as today. 
 There is just one problem. Back home at the very grass roots of his organization, Mr. Zarb is having trouble putting out a little brush fire. Many owners of the smaller brokerage firms that make up the lion's share of N.A.S.D. members, from places like Redwood Falls, Minn., West Hartford, Conn., and Weston, W. Va., are angered by a lack of representation on the N.A.S.D. And they are threatening to loose the stranglehold that large firms like Merrill Lynch, Paine Webber and Goldman, Sachs have on the N.A.S.D.'s rule-making board and its operations.
For the first time in its 60-year history, the securities dealers association's election for seats on the board of governors is being contested. On one side are the N.A.S.D.'s official slate, selected by its nominating committee. They include former President Gerald R. Ford; James Dimon, the former president of Travelers who resigned last month from Citigroup, and Arthur Rock, a top venture capitalist. Opposing these nominees are a slate of four unknowns, put up by associations of small brokerage firms.
Each year, the N.A.S.D. holds elections to replace retiring members of its 35-seat board, which votes on new rules and other issues involving the operations of the stock market and member firms. This year's election, to replace 12 members, will be decided on Dec. 21.
But while other N.A.S.D. elections have been nonevents, this time throngs of small brokerage firms -- those employing 100 or fewer employees but making up 91 percent of the member firms -- are up in arms. They say they have become increasingly disenfranchised, even discriminated against by an organization whose board is dominated by executives from large, household-name brokerages. Believing they are overregulated and underrepresented, the small firms want more say in the oversight process.
"The N.A.S.D. is an organization that is resistant to change," said Alan Davidson, president of the Independent Broker Dealer Association and Zeus Securities, a one-office firm in Jericho, N.Y., that specializes in bonds. Mr. Davidson is also the force behind the independent slate of candidates for the association's board. "They have betrayed the bulk of their membership," he said.
This David vs. Goliath story might be of no concern to the investing public but for one thing. Small broker-dealers, the association's roots, perform several important functions. They create jobs across the country and help small companies that are shunned by big firms raise capital so they can grow and create jobs. Furthermore, many of these smaller brokers make markets in shares of obscure local companies, providing liquidity to investors who are trading these shares.
"It is in the public interest that smaller firms be given the chance to survive and prosper," said Lewis D. Lowenfels, a prominent securities lawyer in New York who represented the American Stock Exchange floor brokers in the exchange's merger with the N.A.S.D. earlier this year. "The N.A.S.D. was built in large part on the entrepreneurship of smaller firms and must be particularly sensitive to the needs of these firms as it builds and expands its global empire."
Exactly what Frank Zarb has been doing all year, says Michael Jones, chief administrative officer of the N.A.S.D. "To say Frank has been aggressively pursuing and implementing the inclusion of small firms would be an understatement," he said. Of course, Mr. Zarb and his colleagues have to serve many masters: large firms and small, investors trading in Nasdaq stocks, issuers whose shares trade on the various Nasdaq markets.
But even more important, Mr. Zarb has had to work overtime to clean up the N.A.S.D.'s image after it was censured by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1996 for failure to regulate its market adequately. Increasing the regulatory structure was a natural response.
Although the N.A.S.D. began as a self-regulatory organization for smaller firms, it has become increasingly oriented to the big firms. Since 1988, eight board chairmen have come from firms with more than 200 employees; twice during that time a Merrill Lynch executive has headed the board.
That the N.A.S.D. favors big firms was one of the problems cited two years ago by Arthur Levitt, chairman of the S.E.C. when it published the results of its investigation into accusations about Nasdaq trading improprieties and other issues. In addition to Nasdaq market makers' unfair trading practices, Mr. Levitt said: "The N.A.S.D. allowed the interests of large market-making firms to have undue influence over the conduct of its affairs and the regulation of the market."
Many small firms believe little has changed since Mr. Levitt delivered his thunderbolt. The N.A.S.D., however, says that much has been done to open the regulatory structure to participants from outside the securities industry and the crucial separation of the regulatory arm from the operation of the stock market. "We've come a long way under Frank's direction to balancing our constituencies," Mr. Jones said.
Evidence of this happened earlier this year when the board reserved one seat for a small broker-dealer. The association also formed the Small Firm Advisory Board to address the concerns of those constituents. That panel is headed by Carl P. Sherr, who runs his own small firm in Worcester, Mass.
But Mr. Sherr is no outsider. He was chairman of the N.A.S.D. in 1984 and has frequently sat on arbitration panels assembled by the association. He is also chairman of one of the association's district committees. "He is supposed to be our representative," Mr. Davidson said. "But he's one of them, not one of us."
Jim Nelson runs Minnesota Valley Investors a full-service brokerage firm in Redwood Falls, Minn., which has seven registered representatives and four offices. "What bothers me is the lack of input asked for from small firms," he said. "I haven't seen any information from the Small Firm Advisory Board on what positions they've taken on any proposed regulation. I know it's out there, but I don't know what they're doing."
Since 1993, members of the securities dealers association have not been permitted to vote on rule changes made by the board. The N.A.S.D. argued that sending out rule changes to an enormous membership was becoming too costly and inefficient. But to small broker-dealers this was proof that their input was unwelcome. It meant that the merger with the American Stock Exchange, which was put to a vote of the Amex members, was not approved by a vote of N.A.S.D. firms.
"The N.A.S.D. owns and operates a television studio, sponsors the Super Bowl, has plenty of money for a multimillion-dollar sign in Times Square, but it doesn't want to spend 32 cents to mail members their own rule changes," Mr. Davidson said.
Smaller firms are also deeply concerned about increasingly stiff fees and fines for even the most minor infractions. Joseph W. Mays Jr., president of Securities Consulting Group in New York, advises small securities-firm clients and was a compliance examiner at the N.A.S.D. from 1982 to 1987. "In the past, some rule violations would have not been considered finable," he said. "Now, they're looking for ways to catch firms in minor rule violations so they can put a dollar sign on the examination. They're turning the membership into a profit center."
For example, critics say that the N.A.S.D.'s approach to overcoming the Year 2000 computer problem has been heavy handed. Many smaller firms clear their clients' mutual fund, stock or bond trades through larger firms, handle no customer money or securities and may not even have a computer. Understanding this, the S.E.C. suggested exempting these broker-dealers from Year 2000 compliance surveys.
But the association said no. Last summer it sent out a 15-page form for all firms to fill out on their preparedness. Many tiny firms were a little late filing their reports. In the past, that would have probably been overlooked.This time the N.A.S.D. has moved to censure the firms and impose fines of $2,500 -- often roughly half the amount many of them have in net capital.
Dues and incidental fees imposed on members have also jumped far in excess of inflation the last three years. The minimum annual fee is $1,200, but with add-ons, a small firm could be charged $3,000 while a much larger firm might wind up paying only $4,000.
Mr. Jones says the association's regulatory costs have increased as the industry has grown. But those increases are onerous to small firms. "We service a lot of jeans-and-sneakers kind of people," said Thomas W. Pringle, president of Mark Securities, a two-branch brokerage firm in West Hartford, Conn. "To treat Mark Securities like it's Merrill Lynch or vice versa is not right."
Even though the structure of the N.A.S.D. calls for one firm, one vote, many of the smaller firms complain that bigger firms carry more weight with the market supervisors.
Small firms, 91 percent of the membership, hold only 10 percent of the industry representation on the board.
Although the large majority of brokerage firms are honest, small firms find themselves standing out more on the association's regulatory radar screen because of the increasing focus on microcap fraud -- securities violations perpetrated on gullible investors in tiny stocks by bucket-shop brokerages like Stratton Oakmont, A. R. Baron and Sterling Foster.
Discussing why small firms seem to be the focus of such scrutiny, Alfred Berkeley 3d, Nasdaq's president, said in an interview in USA Today earlier this year: "The big companies don't do it because they have too much to lose. Little teeny companies and investment banks may have the incentive to fool people. And I'd like to put nails deep in their bodies."
But Chris Nelson, who runs Minnesota Valley Securities with her husband, said many smaller firms are being wrongly tarred by the N.A.S.D.'s brush.
"Out here in a town of 6,000, all you have is your reputation," she said. "You don't have an option not to run a clean operation." Representatives of smaller firms also point to scandals involving big firms, like the sales practices at Prudential Securities that led to a billion-dollar settlement with aggrieved investors and Merrill Lynch's involvement in the Orange County bankruptcy. Small firms are particularly worried about a proposal approved by the board in October that would allow N.A.S.D.'s regulatory arm to issue temporary cease-and-desist orders to "prevent continuing violations of specific N.A.S.D. rules and the securities laws." This essentially means that regulators need no longer show cause to a Federal judge to shut down a brokerage firm.
"The view of the organization is that we deal with each firm on its own merits," said Mr. Jones of N.A.S.D. But many owners of small firms who were interviewed for this article declined to speak for attribution. They believe that retribution by the association would result from on-record criticisms.
LaRae Bakerink, vice president of compliance at SK International Securities in La Jolla, Calif., says they have reason to be concerned. Just weeks after Ms. Bakerink's name appeared on the N.A.S.D. ballot as an independent nominee, she received word that her firm was being audited by the association, more than nine months ahead of schedule.
"Fortunately, I'm not concerned," she said. "We do a really clean business. But I still feel it's intimidation tactics."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Davidson, president of the dissident Independent Broker Dealer Association. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "David vs. Goliath"
The National Association of Securities Dealers is facing its first contested board election in 60 years. Smaller firms contend they are under-represented and over-regulated. Officials of the N.A.S.D., which oversees the Nasdaq stock market, respond that they are simply trying to clean up the industry's tarnished image.
The number of N.A.S.D. firms has been shrinking, while the larger firms are expanding, and the N.A.S.D. tries to root out fraud. Graph tracks number of brokerage firm members of N.A.S.D., total number of branch offices of N.A.S.D. firms, and number of investigations by the N.A.S.D., from 1988 through July 1998. (Source: National Association of Securities Dealers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (57%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (93%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



375 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: War and Impeachment

 BODY:
After hearing for months about Bill Clinton's ability to compartmentalize issues, the country and the world now have to match that difficult trick. By attacking Iraq as House members gathered in the capital to consider his impeachment, Mr. Clinton could not avoid the impression that he is blurring the boundaries that must separate America's foreign conduct from its domestic political turbulence. But that accusation would in large part be unfair. The confrontation with Iraq has played out on its own timetable and happened to reach a decisive point on the eve of the House impeachment debate.
No one but Mr. Clinton knows all the factors that went into his decision to order air strikes, and historians may long speculate whether the threat of impeachment propelled him to exercise his powers as Commander in Chief. Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, and other Republicans immediately questioned Mr. Clinton's motives, a startling departure from the unity that usually accompanies American military action. That is not the only political custom suspended in Washington this strange and eventful week. 
 But viewed outside the prism of impeachment, the decision to launch cruise missiles against Iraq was fully justified. Just weeks after Saddam Hussein had yet again promised to give international inspectors unhindered access, Iraq barred them from sites suspected of housing chemical and biological arms. Richard Butler, the chief United Nations inspector, reported Tuesday that effective inspections were impossible.
Given the prospect that Baghdad would rebuild its arsenal of toxic weapons while United Nations inspectors were handcuffed, Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain had no choice but to use military force to destroy portions of Iraq's arms industry. With the Islamic holy month of Ramadan beginning this weekend, military action had to start or be postponed until late January.
Cruise missiles and the bombing runs that will follow cannot eliminate the threat, but they can severely reduce Iraq's ability to make new weapons or use its old ones. It is essential for American and British forces to limit civilian casualties. Washington and London must also be mindful of the uneven international support for the attack. There are limits on how long and how hard Iraq can be hit before foreign support diminishes.
In the likely event that Iraq refuses to allow inspections to resume after this attack, the Security Council must develop new ways to restrain Baghdad. Mr. Clinton outlined a strategy of containment, promising to use force again if necessary and to maintain economic sanctions on Iraq. These measures may not be popular among all members of the Security Council, but less forceful policies will not work as long as Mr. Hussein remains in power.
Mr. Clinton made only glancing reference to the gathering storm of impeachment in his address last evening, but the convergence of events clearly left Republicans disgruntled and distrustful. The attack on Iraq may delay but will not end the debate over Mr. Clinton's fate or change any votes already committed to impeachment. Congress needs to resolve that constitutional crisis as soon as possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSPECTIONS (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); HISTORY (69%); RAMADAN (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



376 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: A Volatile Windfall

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
It might be called the season of cheer for New York City Transit. Ridership on the city's buses and subways is soaring, and the agency is enjoying a year-end financial surplus so large that city and state officials are offering competing plans on how to spend the money.
But while the transit system's books are in better shape than what was expected a year ago -- before the agency introduced its wildly popular unlimited-ride Metrocard passes -- it is confronting a steady drain on its income from the fare box. 
 In short, more people are riding the transit system. But they are paying less for it.
Instead, the transit system's surplus has stemmed in large part from surging tax revenue tied to the strong economy -- not new money from the flood of riders to the system.
That nettlesome fact serves as a backdrop as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent of New York City Transit, meets today to decide on a 1999 budget. On one side, riders and many politicians want to spend the surplus -- estimated by Gov. George E. Pataki at $379 million -- to expand service. On the other side, more cautious analysts warn that the surplus can quickly disappear if the economy starts to falter.
"There is going to be a day of reckoning, and not too far in the future," said Robert A. Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, who follows the finances of the M.T.A.
"The Governor's estimate on a surplus got the transit advocates all pumped up," he said. "But at some point this wave of new revenue will abate, and there will be some budget balancing to do."
For those charged with setting a financial course for New York City Transit, even larger questions than the 1999 budget will be dealt with in a year, when the M.T.A. must submit its next five-year financial plan. With $150 million in service improvements contained in its proposed 1999 budget -- the acquisition of more than 300 buses, more subway cleaning workers and increased subway frequency on several of the most congested lines -- the five-year plan must tackle such huge uncertainties as what to do with the unbuilt Second Avenue subway, what stations will be renovated and whether fares will increase.
Underlying it all is the volatility of the two main sources of revenue that pay New York City Transit's bills: fares from passengers, which account for two-thirds of its budget, and tax money, which accounts for the rest. Although the amount coming from passengers has been expected to decline because of the discounts offered to people who use Metrocards or free transfers between buses and subways, it has declined less this year than had been expected by the transit agency.
Therein lies one reason for a budget surplus: New York City Transit had based its budget this year on the assumption that passenger revenue would be $166 million less than has actually been collected.
Actually, fares collected from riders this year will be $86 million less than in 1997. And New York City Transit said it expected passenger revenue to fall another $66 million in 1999, pushed down by another discount Metrocard -- the long-awaited $4 one-day pass -- that is to be introduced on Jan. 1. By itself, according to the agency's estimates, the one-day Metrocard will cut its revenue by $50 million a year by luring riders who would otherwise pay full fare.
Although revenue from fares may decline over the next year, transit officials have been able to enjoy surging revenue from taxpayer subsidies as the economies of the city and its surrounding region boom.
Among the several city and state taxes from which the M.T.A. takes a cut each year is a sales tax, a corporate income tax surcharge, a real estate transfer tax and others that generate government income based on the economy. And like other government recipients, the M.T.A. will see the amount flowing in automatically dwindle when the regional economy cools off.
Thomas McMahon, the director of the New York City Council Finance Division and a frequent critic of New York City Transit's finances, said there was some question whether the transit agency could continue to expect growing tax subsidies. Still, he expects the agency's surplus for the current year to be even bigger than the $379 million estimated by Governor Pataki, and said more money should be allocated immediately for service improvements.
Financial analysts expect that questions about how much new service it can offer will bedevil New York City Transit for years as it tries to anticipate how much in service improvements it can afford. "Lots of things look like they are affordable when the economy booms," said Mr. Kurtter. "They have to be careful not to implement new service and an expanded cost structure that can't be supported in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A passenger swiping a Metrocard through a turnstile at the Astor Place subway station. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



377 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Union Director Says He Won't Initiate Talks

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE

 BODY:
A defiant Billy Hunter said he had no intention of calling David Stern to restart talks and predicted that there would not be a resolution to the National Basketball Association's labor dispute before Christmas.
While Hunter, executive director of the players union, said that both parties could come to an agreement after a few days of intense negotiations, he was agitated at times, using a conference call with the news media yesterday to put the onus for closing a deal and salvaging the season on league officials. 
 "We're going to find ourselves locked into the 12th-hour scenario," Hunter said. "At this stage, it's almost like poker. What they're trying to do is see who blinks first. Unless they're prepared to compromise, there's not going to be a season and this thing is just going to go up in smoke."
Where are the talks going on the 169th day of the lockout? Home for the holidays. Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, is planning to leave for a weeklong trip to his Colorado vacation home this weekend, and Hunter said he would return home to Oakland, Calif. Both principal negotiators said they could quickly return to New York if needed.
Still, with neither side in a rush to negotiate, it appears that Jan. 1 is not a hard deadline for an impending settlement. Hunter even spoke of the season beginning Feb. 1, a date that would allow teams a 40- to 50-game season.
"Of course it concerns me," Hunter said, when asked if he was worried about not reaching an accord before Christmas. "Am I overly concerned? Obviously, I'm not. I look at David, and I figure David will be the one to decide when and if we get a deal. When he's ready, he'll negotiate. Obviously, his time line is not affected by the week before Christmas now that he's going to Aspen, Colo."
That was just one of several shots Hunter lobbed Stern's way yesterday. Indicative of how pride has filtered into the negotiations, Hunter also seems to be fed up with initiating conversations to bring the sides back to the table.
"The problem with initial contact, it gives the impression we're weakened," he said. "I know on several occasions they haven't called is because it's an issue of a pride, and that goes before the fall. Maybe this time, I need to stay where I am and see if they want to talk to me."
Stern disputed that Hunter is always the one to make first contact.
"Contrary to Mr. Hunter's assertions, last week's meetings were convened at my initiative alone," Stern said in a written statement. "I called him on Tuesday, met privately with him that evening and outlined to him the compromises the N.B.A. was prepared to make in order to achieve a deal.
"The meetings that followed on Thursday and Saturday were thus the result of my initiative and were without precondition. Mr. Hunter's position at the Saturday meeting was that the union was prepared to accept the N.B.A.'s concessions but was unprepared to make any significant ones of its own.
"As we told the union's representatives, we remain willing to negotiate at any time and at any location if it will be productive."
The most ominous stumbling blocks to a deal remain how large a percentage of revenues will be devoted to salaries, and whether there will be an absolute maximum salary for players with more than seven years' experience. On many other issues, the sides are gaining ground.
"There will be no piecemeal negotiations," Hunter said. "We're not going to sit around and concede. We always concede to the demands of the N.B.A., and we're no longer going to engage in that."
Hunter also addressed the issue of race in the negotiations, a subject that has been openly discussed in articles in Newsweek magazine and The New York Times this past week.
"No, I don't think race is," he said. "The problem is, you've got a group of extremely successful businessmen who own teams. Most of them are billionaires. You've got men accustomed to seeing their dictates honored. When they make a demand, it's customary that most people respond to it.
"On the other side of the table, you've got a group of players who are predominantly African-American in origin. People can read into it anything they want. But I think it's all about dollars. It's about hard economics. People tend to read different things. If things don't go right or tempers flare, the first reaction is, it's got to be racial. I think we have to put that aside and get a deal."
Finally, Hunter also warned of the grave consequences of a lost season, including the formation of a rival league. He spoke of "other individuals who would step up and try to fill the void, create another league, a competing league."
He added: "The N.B.A. would take a hit and never recover. If there's a mass exodus, I think the N.B.A. would be decimated. It's ludicrous for us to not try and reach an accord."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Billy Hunter, head of the players union, spoke of a Feb. 1 start for a 40- to 50-game season. (Associated Press)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); COLORADO, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); COLORADO, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); LOCKOUTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



378 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ;
Clinton's Statement: 'We Are Delivering a Powerful Message to Saddam'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Clinton's address to the nation yesterday on Iraq, as recorded by The New York Times:
Earlier today I ordered America's armed forces to strike military and security targets in Iraq. They are joined by British forces. Their mission is to attack Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs and its military capacity to threaten its neighbors. Their purpose is to protect the national interest of the United States and indeed the interests of people throughout the Middle East and around the world. Saddam Hussein must not be allowed to threaten his neighbors or the world with nuclear arms, poison gas or biological weapons.
I want to explain why I have decided, with the unanimous recommendation of my national security team, to use force in Iraq, why we have acted now, and what we aim to accomplish. Six weeks ago, Saddam Hussein announced that he would no longer cooperate with the United Nations weapons inspectors called Unscom. They are highly professional experts from dozens of countries. Their job is to oversee the elimination of Iraq's capability, to retain, create and use weapons of mass destruction and to verify that Iraq does not attempt to rebuild that capability. The inspectors undertook this mission first 7 1/2 years ago, at the end of the gulf war when Iraq agreed to declare and destroy its arsenal as a condition of the cease-fire. 
 The international community had good reason to set this requirement. Other countries possess weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles, with Saddam there's one big difference. He has used them, not once but repeatedly, unleashing chemical weapons against Iranian troops during a decadelong war. Not only against soldiers but against civilians. Firing Scud missiles at the citizens of Israel, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Iran, not only against a foreign enemy but even against his own people, gassing Kurdish civilians in Northern Iraq.
The international community had little doubt then, and I have no doubt today that, left unchecked, Saddam Hussein will use these terrible weapons again. The United States has patiently worked to preserve Unscom as Iraq has sought to avoid its obligation to cooperate with the inspectors. On occasion we've had to threaten military force and Saddam has backed down. Faced with Saddam's latest act of defiance in late October, we built intensive diplomatic pressure on Iraq backed by overwhelming military force in the region.
The U.N. Security Council voted 15-to-0 to condemn Saddam's actions and to demand that he immediately come into compliance. Eight Arab nations: Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, United Arab Emirates and Oman, warned that Iraq alone would bear responsibility for the consequences of defying the U.N.
When Saddam still failed to comply we prepared to act militarily. It was only then at the last possible moment that Iraq backed down. It pledged to the U.N. that it had made, and I quote, "a clear and unconditional decision to resume cooperation with the weapons inspectors."
I decided then to call off the attack with our airplanes already in the air because Saddam had given in to our demands. I concluded then that the right thing to do was to use restraint and give Saddam one last chance to prove his willingness to cooperate.
I made it very clear at that time what unconditional cooperation meant based on existing U.N. resolutions and Iraq's own commitments. And along with Prime Minister Blair of Great Britain, I made it equally clear that if Saddam failed to cooperate fully, we would be prepared to act without delay, diplomacy or warning.
Now over the past three weeks, the U.N. weapons inspectors have carried out their plan for testing Iraq's cooperation. The testing period ended this weekend and last night Unscom's chairman, Richard Butler, reported the results to U.N. Secretary General Annan. The conclusions are stark, sobering and profoundly disturbing.
In four out of the five categories set forth, Iraq has failed to cooperate. Indeed, it actually has placed new restrictions on the inspections. Here are some of the particulars.
Iraq repeatedly blocked Unscom from inspecting suspect sites.
For example, it shut off access to the headquarters of its ruling party and said it will deny access to the party's other offices, even though U.N. resolutions make no exception for them and Unscom has inspected them in the past.
Iraq repeatedly restricted Unscom's ability to obtain necessary evidence. For example, Iraq obstructed Unscom's effort to photograph bombs related to its chemical weapons program. It tried to stop an Unscom biological weapons team from videotaping a site and photocopying documents and prevented Iraqi personnel from answering Unscom's questions.
Prior to the inspection of another site, Iraq actually emptied out the building, removing not just documents, but even the furniture and the equipment. Iraq has failed to turn over virtually all the documents requested by the inspectors, indeed we know that Iraq ordered the destruction of weapons-related documents in anticipation of an Unscom inspection.
So Iraq has abused its final chance. As the Unscom report concludes, and again I quote: "Iraq's conduct insured that no progress was able to made in the fields of disarmament. In light of this experience, and in the absence of full cooperation by Iraq, it must regrettably be recorded again that the commission is not able to conduct the work mandated to it by the Security Council, with respect to Iraq's prohibited weapons program."
In short, the inspectors are saying that even if they could stay in Iraq, their work would be a sham. Saddam's deception has defeated their effectiveness. Instead of the inspectors disarming Saddam, Saddam has disarmed the inspectors.
This situation presents a clear and present danger to the stability of the Persian Gulf and the safety of people everywhere. The international community gave Saddam one last chance to resume cooperation with the weapons inspectors. Saddam has failed to seize the chance. And so we had to act, and act now.
Let me explain why.
First, without a strong inspection system Iraq would be free to retain and again to rebuild its chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs. In months, not years.
Second, if Saddam can cripple the weapons inspection systems and get away with it, he would conclude that the International Community, led by the United States, has simply lost its will. He will surmise that he has free rein to rebuild his arsenal of destruction and someday, make no mistake, he will use it again as he has in the past.
Third, in halting our air strikes in November, I gave Saddam a chance not a license. If we turn our backs on his defiance the credibility of U.S. power as a check against Saddam will be destroyed. We will not only have allowed Saddam to shatter the inspection system that controls his weapons of mass destruction program, we also will have fatally undercut the fear of force that stopped Saddam from acting to gain domination in the region.
That is why on the unanimous recommendation of my national security team, including the Vice President, Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretary of State and the national security adviser, I have ordered a strong sustained series of air strikes against Iraq. They are designed to degrade Saddam's capacity to develop and deliver weapons of mass destruction and to degrade his ability to threaten his neighbors. At the same time we are delivering a powerful message to Saddam. If you act recklessly you will pay a heavy price.
We acted today because in the judgment of my military advisers a swift response would provide the most surprise and the least opportunity for Saddam to prepare. If we had delayed for even a matter of days, from Chairman Butler's report, we would have given Saddam more time to disperse his forces and protect his weapons.
Also, the Muslim holy month of Ramadan begins this weekend. For us to initiate military action during Ramadan would be profoundly offensive to the Muslim world and therefore would damage our relations with Arab countries and the progress we have made in the Middle East. That is something we wanted very much to avoid without giving Iraq a month's head start to prepare for potential action against it.
Finally, our allies including Prime Minister Tony Blair of Great Britain, concur that now is the time to start. I hope Saddam will come into cooperation with the inspection system now, and comply with the relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions. But we have to be prepared that he will not. And we must deal with the very real danger he poses. So we will pursue a long-term strategy to contain Iraq and its weapons of mass destruction and work toward the day when Iraq is a Government worthy of its people.
First, we must be prepared to use force again if Saddam takes threatening action such as trying to reconstitute his weapons of mass destruction or other delivery systems threatening his neighbors, challenging allied aircraft over Iraq or moving against his own Kurdish citizens. The credible threat to use force, and, when necessary, the actual use of force, is the surest way to contain Saddam's weapons of mass destruction program, curtail his aggression and prevent another gulf war.
Second. So long as Iraq remains out of compliance we will work with the International Community to maintain and enforce economic sanctions. Sanctions have cost Saddam more than $120 billion. Resources that would have been used to rebuild his military. The sanction system allows Iraq to sell oil or food or medicine or other humanitarian supplies for the Iraqi people. We have no quarrel with them.
But without the sanctions we would see the oil for food program become oil for tanks, resulting in a greater threat to Iraq's neighbors and less food for its people. The hard fact is that so long as Saddam remains in power he threatens the well-being of his people, the peace of this region, the security of the world.
The best way to end that threat, once and for all, is with the new Iraqi Government, a government ready to live in peace with its neighbors, a government that respects the rights of its people.
Bringing change in Baghdad will take time and effort. We will strengthen our engagement with the full range of Iraqi opposition forces and work with them effectively and prudently.
The decision to use force is never cost free. Whenever American forces are placed in harm's way we risk the loss of life. And while our strikes are focused on Iraq's military capabilities, there will be unintended Iraqi casualties. Indeed in the past Saddam has intentionally placed Iraqi civilians in harm's way in a cynical bid to sway international opinion. We must be prepared for these realities.
At the same time Saddam should have absolutely no doubt if he lashes out at his neighbors, we will respond forcefully.
Heavy as they are, the cost of action must be weighed against the price of inaction. If Saddam defies the world and we fail to respond, we will face a far greater threat in the future. Saddam will strike again at his neighbors. He will make war on his own people. And mark my words, he will develop weapons of mass destruction. He will deploy them and he will use them.
Because we are acting today it is less likely that we will face these dangers in the future.
Let me close by addressing one other issue. Saddam Hussein and the other enemies of peace may have thought that the serious debate currently before the House of Representatives would distract Americans or weaken our resolve to face him down. But once more the United States has proven that although we are never eager to use force, when we must act in America's vital interests, we will do so.
In the century we're leaving America has often made the difference between chaos and community, fear and hope. Now in a new century we will have a remarkable opportunity to shape a future more peaceful than the past. But only if we stand strong against the enemies of peace. Tonight, the United States is doing just that.
May God bless and protect the brave men and women who are carrying out this vital mission and their families. And may God bless America.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton told the nation of his decision to order the armed forces to strike military and security targets in Iraq. A customer at a Best Buys electronics store in West Mifflin, Pa., watched Mr. Clinton's address yesterday after the bombing. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OMAN (79%); QATAR (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OMAN (79%); QATAR (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); DESERT STORM (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



379 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Suit Demands Ban on Logging in U.S. Forests

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
A coalition of environmentalists plans to sue the Forest Service on Thursday, demanding an end to logging in national forests on novel grounds: the Federal timber program causes more economic harm than good.
The environmental groups, led by Friends of the Earth and Forest Guardians, assert that the Forest Service routinely ignores laws and regulations that require it to calculate the economic costs of logging, like damage to water resources or tourism, and to weigh them against the benefits, like the value of the timber that is sold. 
 In one sense, the lawsuit upends the typical dispute between business groups who say that environmental regulations cost more than they are worth and environmentalists who usually argue that the benefits of strict environmental rules cannot be expressed in dollars. For years, the environmentalists have been fighting attempts in Congress to require cost-benefit tests. Now they are in court seeking exactly that.
The lawsuit has been joined by recreation, hunting and fishing organizations, owners of small forest lots, tourism enterprises and others who say they have been harmed economically by the logging program.
It is supported by some prominent natural resource economists who contend that the worth of forests that are not logged can be measured -- and that these values probably far exceed the worth of the timber they hold and the jobs that are created by logging.
The suit is to be filed in Federal District Court for Vermont, in Burlington, said Brian Dunkiel, a staff lawyer for Friends of the Earth. It follows a yearlong campaign in which the environmentalists filed administrative appeals with the Forest Service challenging hundreds of individual timber sales by the service, including in the Green Mountains National Forest in Vermont, on similar grounds, only to be rebuffed repeatedly.
"The law requires the Forest Service to account for net economic and social values," Mr. Dunkiel said. "It is almost as though the Congress had hired the Forest Service to serve as the public's accountant, to manage these assets. What has become clear is that the Forest Service has failed terribly."
James Lyons, the Under Secretary of Agriculture for natural resources, said he had not seen the complaint and could not address its specifics.
"As an organization we are certainly moving in a direction that takes into account all the resources," Mr. Lyons said. "We are seeking to improve, if not maximize, net public benefits. Our analysis is not focused solely on timber production.
"It's not what we take out of the woods, it's what we leave behind that really matters."
The coalition's lawsuit relies on a new but increasingly influential theory among ecologists that it is possible to put a monetary price on the public benefits that flow from healthy ecosystems, like providing a home for commercial species and protecting drinking water reserves, providing recreation and helping control global warming.
It comes at a time when the Federal timber program, in which the Forest Service auctions off its trees to commercial companies, is under challenge on many fronts. The Clinton Administration is considering sweeping new forest policies aimed at protecting the last pristine stands of trees in roadless areas, and anti-logging forces have proposed Federal legislation that would restrict logging and road construction in tens of millions of acres in national forests.
But some conservationists have complained that the Administration's approach exempts major forests from protection, and the legislation has virtually no chance of being enacted because pro-logging lawmakers control the committees in the House and Senate that have jurisdiction over forests.
Instead, the plaintiffs in the suit are seeking to force the Forest Service to stop logging until it obeys what they say are the requirements of existing laws and rules.
In documents prepared for the suit, John Talberth, the executive director of Forest Guardians, presents the results of a broad review he conducted of the professional literature describing what he calls generally accepted standards for measuring the values of forests and the costs of logging them.
He also presents results of a survey of hundreds of timber sale documents obtained from the Forest Service, which he said demonstrated that the agency "has failed to incorporate significant information about the socio-economic values of unlogged national forests into timber sale program decisions."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (95%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (84%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (84%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LOGGING INDUSTRY (93%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); MOUNTAINS (73%); WATER QUALITY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



380 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
U.S. Attack on Iraq Ripples Through World Financial Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The United States attack on Iraq late yesterday sent ripples through world financial markets and was expected to weigh on American stocks when markets opened today.
But analysts, who noted that predicting market reactions is difficult, said they did not expect a major impact as long the attack succeeded rapidly. 
 Assuming a quick resolution, markets should go back to trading on the basis of the other uncertainties worrying investors -- the impeachment vote looming over President Clinton, slowing corporate earnings and the deepening recession in much of the rest of the world. All of these events, analysts believe, could have a bigger impact on stocks, bonds, the dollar, oil and other commodity prices than the Iraq attack.
"Markets, traders and investors really hate uncertainty," said David Blitzer, the chief economist at Standard & Poor's. "But," he added, referring to the bombing, "they have been through it before and will look at what happened then."
While the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 21 percent after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, it rose 18.5 percent in the two months after the war began in January and Iraq's defeat was assured.
"I don't expect it to have a gargantuan impact," Mr. Blitzer said. "It won't turn the tide."
As in 1991, the Iraqi situation could turn positive quickly, which would prevent much reaction at all. That is why forecasting a market response is so difficult.
Analysts also said that the big negative that threatened all markets in 1991 -- a surge in oil prices that took it quickly to $40 a barrel -- was extremely unlikely now.
Futures contracts on both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, an indicator of how prices would behave this morning, fell after news reports about the attack on Iraq, which came after the American markets had closed. During trading, when it was clear that an attack was possible, stocks were little changed. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 32.70 points, to 8,790.60, while the S.& P. 500-stock index slipped 0.89 point, to 1,161.94. The Nasdaq index fell 3.24 points, to 2,009.36.
Asian markets were mostly lower in afternoon trading today, but the moves were relatively small compared with recent trading. Major indexes were off less than 1 percent in Japan and Hong Kong, a bit more than 1 percent in Singapore and Malaysia, and 2.5 percent in South Korea.
While the Iraq crisis was a dominant theme on Wall Street yesterday, stocks were also affected by profit warnings from blue-chip companies. The latest was Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, which said its fourth-quarter results would miss expectations. Its stock dropped 2 3/8, to 71 3/8.
Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation, said that the impeachment of the President could be far more damaging to stocks, especially if it ever seemed that Mr. Clinton would actually leave office. "The stock market expects the House to vote impeachment but that it will not get through the Senate," he said. Mr. Blitzer added that a long trial in the Senate, regardless of the outcome, could be a problem. "I could see people getting distracted," he said.
Bond market prices rose, and yields, which move in the opposite direction, ended lower just as the official word of the Iraq attack came at 5 P.M. The price of the 30-year Treasury issue advanced 18/32, to 104 3/32; its yield eased to 4.99 percent, from 5.02 on Tuesday.
But one trader said that might just have been a knee-jerk reaction. In early trading in the bond futures market last night, there was very little reaction, with the price of the 30-year bond up just slightly.
In anticipation of the possibility of a bombing, oil prices shot up sharply yesterday after it was announced that United Nations inspectors were leaving Iraq because Saddam Hussein would not cooperate with inspections of his country's weapons programs. Since an attack on Iraq was avoided at the last minute in November, both the United States and Britain had threatened to attack without warning if the inspections program was undermined by Iraq.
The near-month contract for oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped 7.2 percent, or 83 cents, to $12.38 a barrel, the biggest single-day gain in three months.
But Michael Rothman, the senior energy analyst at Merrill Lynch, said, "When this ends, it is very likely oil prices could be under renewed downward pressure." Even with yesterday's rally, oil prices are not far above the 12-year lows they hit earlier this month.
Mr. Rothman said the price of oil rose on the anticipation of the cutoff, if an attack began, of the 1.7 million to 1.8 million barrels of oil a day that Iraq is allowed to sell under a humanitarian exemption from the economic embargo in place since 1990.
He estimated that supply could be disrupted for up to a month. But if sales resumed relatively quickly, he said, the temporary absence of Iraqi oil on the market would not make a significant dent in the glut that is depressing prices.
Mr. Rothman said that he was not expecting the conflict to result in a disruption of oil production from any of Iraq's neighbors.
The dollar also rallied yesterday in Europe, as it often does when there is political or military uncertainty, rising to 1.6728 German marks from 1.6575 marks Tuesday. But it was little changed against the Japanese yen, inching up to 116.53 yen from 116.35 yen Tuesday.
But it is possible that the dollar could lose these gains quickly if it is clear that the attack on Iraq will be successful and will not lead to wider problems. In trading early in Tokyo today, the dollar was lower against both the mark and the yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. c9)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); MMM (SWX) (50%); MMM (NYSE) (50%); MMM (FRA) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 3M CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



381 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: IMPEACHMENT: THE WHITE HOUSE;
A Long Day of Planning And Fatigue, on 2 Fronts

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET and JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
After meeting with his top military advisers in the Situation Room at the White House, President Clinton made a rare appearance just after 8 A.M. today at the daily meeting of his senior aides, in the corner office of his chief of staff, John D. Podesta.
Only 3 or 4 of the 30 staff members in the room knew that within hours United States missiles would strike Iraq. But they all knew that the House would probably vote soon to impeach the tired-looking man in the doorway, and they stood to applaud him. 
 Mr. Clinton thanked them for their hard work, people who were present said, and he assured them that if they kept at it, the American people would support the Administration.
"They'll figure it out," he said, "They always get it right."
For the last 24 hours, from the time he left Israel until he addressed the nation today, Mr. Clinton worked feverishly on two momentous matters that he insisted were wholly unrelated: the pending impeachment vote in the House of Representatives and the air assault on Iraq.
The strain showed. "He's whipped," said Representative Amo Houghton of New York, an upstate Republican who met with Mr. Clinton in the Oval Office this afternoon to discuss heading off impeachment. He attributed the President's apparent exhaustion to "the physical and emotional presure on him day after day after day."
Referring to both impeachment and Iraq, he said, "This is life and death stuff."
Mr. Clinton made the initial decision to strike Iraq on Tuesday night as he flew back from a four-day trip to the Middle East.
Before focusing on Iraq, he spent some time chatting with the members of the Congressional delegation he had taken with him. They talked about the Middle East and about the international economy.
But for the first time, Mr. Clinton also spoke directly to one member of the delegation about the impeachment vote. White House aides said Mr. Clinton had spent about 10 minutes talking with Representative Jon D. Fox, a Pennsylvania Republican who has said he is undecided.
Although Mr. Clinton was clearly enjoying the company of his fellow politicians, his aides were anxious that he turn his attention to Iraq. They also wanted to make sure that he slept on the flight, since three days of high-stakes diplomacy had clearly exhausted him.
After finishing with the Congressmen, the President was briefed on the report from Richard Butler, chairman of the United Nations group overseeing the disarmament of Iraq. Mr. Clinton quickly concluded, aides said, that Iraq was flouting the rules of the international weapons inspection program imposed after the end of the 1991 Persian Gulf war.
Mr. Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser -- all aboard the plane -- conducted a secure telephone conference call with Vice President Al Gore, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen, George Tenet, the director of central intelligence, and Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and other officials in Washington.
"The recommendation was unanimous that the President should go forward," Mr. Berger said.
Later, Mr. Clinton wandered into a conference room on the plane to watch his aides playing hearts, before returning to his cabin to sleep about five hours until the plane reached Andrews Air Force base.
On reaching the White House about midnight, he sat down with Mr. Berger and Mr. Podesta. And from his private study in the White House residence, he telephoned Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, and Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate minority leader, to tell them about the decision. Mr. Cohen, a former Republican Senator from Maine, called Republican leaders on Tuesday night with the same news.
The decision was confirmed this morning at the Situation Room meeting, which began at about 7:15. Mr. Berger said that once again the decision was unanimous.
After stopping by the staff meeting, Mr. Clinton was not done with the question of impeachment for the day. He spent about half an hour in the Oval Office early this afternoon with Mr. Houghton.
Mr. Houghton gave the President a biography of Isaiah Berlin, a don at Oxford when Mr. Clinton studied there, and the two discussed the censure resolution that the Congressman plans to present on Thursday.
Mr. Clinton then set to work on the 15-minute speech he delivered from the Oval Office, and made several telephone calls to foreign leaders as well. Mr. Berger and Mr. Podesta updated him several times on the course of the operation.
The White House was in for a couple of shocks before the assault began. After the President told Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, of his planned strike, White House advisers were astonished to hear Mr. Lott criticize it publicly as a political move.
"The rules we've always had is that politics stop at the shore," one senior White House official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "Somebody changed the rules and it wasn't us." But Clinton advisers said that they expected Mr. Lott's comments to backfire.
As Mr. Clinton, prepared to give his speech tonight, his aides were alarmed by one final detail: his maroon tie. They insisted that he trade it for the blue one worn today by Paul Begala, his counselor.
Then Mr. Clinton took a sip of water, and began. It was only at the very end of his remarks that he brought the two tracks of his day together. "Saddam Hussein and the other enemies of peace may have thought that the serious debate currently before the House of Representatives would distract Americans or weaken our resolve to face him down," he said. But, Mr. Clinton said, today proved that "when we must act in America's vital interests, we will do so."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PENNSYLVANIA REPUBLICAN (66%); WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GULF STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); DISARMAMENT (63%); INSPECTIONS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



382 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-21
 
Clinton Orders Bombing In Iraq, Citing Military Need
President Clinton ordered a "strong sustained series of air strikes" against Iraq, defending the attack as unavoidable. The attacks were ordered, the President said, because of Iraq's refusal to live up to its promise, following defeat in the gulf war, to allow the United Nations to conduct on-site inspections for weapons of mass destruction. A1
 
The United States Congress threw near-unanimous support behind the military strikes, but Republicans were bitterly divided over whether President Clinton timed the attack to help save himself from the impending impeachment. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, stood virtually alone in opposing the air assault on suspected Iraqi chemical, nuclear and biological weapons sites, arguing that the attacks were ineffective. A1 
 The joint American-British attack, which is expected to last at least until this weekend, began with a wave of more than 200 Tomahawk cruise missiles, most of them launched against facilities believed to be used by the Iraqis for the manufacture or storage of weapons of mass destruction. The United States will likely be forced to leave a large force in the region for several more years. A17
 
Indictments in Africa Bombings
Federal prosecutors have charged six men in the bombings at the American Embassy in Tanzania. One of the bombers died in the assault, while another photographed the destruction before fleeing. All five of the suspects are at large and, if convicted, each faces the death penalty in the United States. The indictment brings to 14 the number of men known to have been charged by Federal prosecutors. A10
 
Koreans Claim Cell Cloning
South Korean scientists claim that they have cloned a human cell from an infertile woman, creating a four-cell embryo that theoretically could have grown into a genetically identical replica of the woman. The scientists are believed to be the first to publicly claim that they have taken steps to clone a human being, although their research has not been confirmed or reviewed by other scientists A12
 
Israeli Leader May Fall
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has all but conceded that he expects his Government to be toppled on Monday and has threatened to call for new elections to avoid being evicted from office. A3
 
Italian Banker's Body Exhumed
Italian magistrates have exhumed the body of Roberto Calvi, the Italian banker found hanging from a London bridge in 1982, for an autopsy they hope will establish for certain whether or not he was murdered. Mr. Calvi was dismissed as chairman of Banco Ambrosiano, which collapsed in 1982, the day before he died, leaving behind a $1.3 billion bankruptcy mess and one of Italy's most confounding unsolved mysteries. A19
 
World Briefing A18
 
NATIONAL A22-31
 
Impeachment Vote Delayed After Attack Against Iraq
House Republicans postponed the impeachment vote against President Clinton for perhaps a few days because of the bombing campaign against Iraq, even as the odds against the President looked insurmountable. After more than three hours of raucous, angry and passionate debate, Republicans, despite expressing deep suspicions of Mr. Clinton's motives, finally heeded the call from their incoming speaker, Robert L. Livingston, that the impeachment debate be postponed. A1
 
For the last 24 hours, from the time he left Israel until he addressed the nation, President Clinton worked feverishly on two momentous matters that he insisted were wholly unrelated: the pending impeachment vote in the House of Representatives and the air assault on Iraq. A29
 
Meat Producer Faces Charges
Hudson Foods Inc. and two employees have been indicted on Federal charges of providing false information to the Department of Agriculture in what became the nation's largest meat recall. A24
 
End to Federal Logging Sought
A coalition of environmentalists plans to sue the Forest Service, demanding an end to logging in national forests on novel grounds: the Federal timber program causes more economic harm than good. A24
 
Bias Cited in Traffic Stops
A Federal judge in Boston sentencing a black man for gun possession reduced the sentence because his lengthy arrest record, she said, reflected a tendency by the police to stop black motorists more often whites. A22
 
Murder Defendant Takes Stand
Thomas J. Capano, who is accused of killing his mistress and has admitted to dumping her body into the Atlantic Ocean, broke two and a half years of silence by taking the stand to defend himself in a murder case that is being prosecuted with circumstantial evidence and testimony by his brother and another mistress. A31
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-24
 
Murder Charges Are Filed In Woman's Disappearance
The main suspects in the disappearance of an Upper East Side millionaire were charged with murder and a wide range of other felonies in an 84-count indictment that details what prosecutors said was a highly sophisticated scheme to steal the missing woman's ornate mansion. B1
 
Airport Theft Ring Shut Down
Law enforcement officials said they had shut down a major theft ring that stole millions of dollars in merchandise from warehouses around Kennedy International Airport. More than $5 million in stolen items were recovered, ranging from specialized items like airplane data recorders to bottles of aspirin. B5
 
D'Amato Named to Be Mediator
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who last month lost his bid for a fourth term, has accepted a job mediating a lawsuit brought against German and Austrian banks by Holocaust survivors, whose cause he has championed. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-12
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
ARTS E1-14
 
A Whitney Curator Leaves
Lisa Phillips, the curator of contemporary art at the Whitney Museum of American Art, is leaving after 23 years to become director of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo. She is the fourth top curator to resign from the Whitney since Maxwell L. Anderson took over the museum as director in September. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Chase Profits Near Record
Chase Manhattan said it is within striking distance of posting record profits this quarter, notable in a year when the best and brightest of Wall Street have been battered by financial upheaval overseas. C1
 
3M Expects Lower Earnings
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing warned that slumping global sales and a slowdown at home would probably cut fourth-quarter earnings 10 percent from the comparable quarter last year. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B15
 
William Gaddis
The author of "The Recognitions" and "JR" and a novelist of immense range, complexity and satiric humor was 75. B15
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: War and impeachment; DNA testing proposals; blunting the hard edge of truth; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Christmas.
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E10
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E12
 
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); ITALY (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); ITALY (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (93%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CLONING (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); INDICTMENTS (87%); HUMAN CLONING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); MURDER (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); MAGISTRATES (65%); AUTOPSIES (65%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (63%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); TRENT LOTT (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



383 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE STRATEGY;
Strikes Aimed At Crippling Factories For Weapons

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
Senior Clinton Administration officials say that the air strikes ordered today against Iraq, the largest and most punishing since the 1991 gulf war, will likely leave the United States with little ability to closely monitor Iraq's capability to develop chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
The attack, they said, will almost certainly mean the end of the seven-year-old United Nations weapons inspection program in Iraq, and will force the United States to maintain a large military presence in the gulf region for at least several years. 
 While senior American officials insisted that the air strikes would significantly hamper Iraq's programs to make poison gas and nuclear weapons, they readily acknowledged that the weapons programs would continue and perhaps accelerate after the bombing ends.
Without the United Nations inspection program, they said, the Clinton Administration would have only a limited ability to determine whether Iraq is manufacturing and stockpiling weapons of mass destruction -- and to prevent Iraq from threatening its neighbors with poison gas.
The United States, they said, will need to leave a large military force in the region for the foreseeable future at a cost to taxpayers of billions of dollars a year, ready to strike whenever American intelligence agencies develop evidence from aerial surveillance to show that the Iraqis are close to deploying chemical, biological or nuclear weapons.
"It's a very unpalatable scenario for the U.S.," said an Pentagon official. "We can keep track of some of what's going on the ground with satellites and surveillance planes. But that's not the same as having inspectors on the ground, poking around or at least trying to poke around Iraqi installations."
In his speech tonight, President Clinton warned ominously that "without a strong inspection system, Iraq would be free to retain and begin to rebuild its chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs in months -- not years."
Officials concede that the only other tools left to the United States in containing Iraq are economic sanctions, which the Clinton Administration has struggled to keep in place over the opposition of Russia, France and other nations, and support for the ragtag Iraqi opposition movement, which has yet to prove that it can mount a serious challenge to the authority of President Hussein.
Mr. Clinton has already acknowledged that a military strike like the one that he launched today would sound the death knell for the weapons inspections that have been carried out in Iraq by the United Nations Special Commission, or Unscom.
When he called off air strikes on Iraq last month, President Clinton said then that he had made the decision in part because he believed such an attack "would mean the end of Unscom" and "we would then have no oversight, no insight, no involvement in what is going on in Iraq."
Today, with air strikes against Iraq underway, senior Administration officials said they believed and feared that the Unscom inspection program was dead, as the President had predicted.
"After this, it's hard to imagine that Saddam will ever allow the inspectors back in," said an American official. "So what is our policy? What do we do in a post-Unscom world? I don't know."
While refusing to provide full details on the weapons fired against Iraq today and the number of American warplanes and ships that joined in the mission, Administration officials said the attack was several times larger than any launched against Iraq since the gulf war.
"The others were pinpricks by comparison," an official said. "It's smaller than the war but much bigger than anything else."
In June 1993, the United States fired 23 cruise missiles at Iraqi intelligence headquarters in Baghdad in retaliation for an alleged plot to assassinate former President Bush. In September 1996, 27 cruise missiles were launched against military targets in southern Iraq in retaliation for the movement of Iraqi troops against Kurds in northern Iraq.
American officials said that they have had target lists for the attack ready since last month, when the United States initially planned to launch air strikes against Iraq over its refusal to allow unfettered weapons inspections by Unscom.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



384 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
POLAROID IS WIDENING ITS REVAMPING PROGRAM

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Expanding a revamping program, the Polaroid Corporation said yesterday that it would cut up to 700 jobs, or about 7 percent of its work force, and take a $90 million charge in the fourth quarter. Polaroid, the instant-camera maker, said the additional revamping would help reduce costs by another $20 million to $30 million before taxes in the next two years. The expansion of the reorganization comes about a year after the company, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., announced plans to cut 1,800 jobs and reduce costs by $120 million. Polaroid has also renegotiated terms of a $350 million revolving credit agreement and sold some real estate in Massachusetts for $27 million in cash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PRD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LABOR FORCE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



385 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE DIPLOMACY;
U.S. Decision to Act Fast, and Then Search for Support, Angers Some Allies

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
President Clinton's decision to strike Iraq tonight without the customary round of consulting allies drew sharp criticism from Russia and France, the two countries most reluctant to use force against Saddam Hussein.
While Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright talked to some 16 foreign ministers of the Security Council and European and Arab allies before the bombing began, her purpose was more to inform them of the American decision than to seek their counsel, officials said. 
 Her most heated conversation, with the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, took place only after the air strikes began, officials said. The Russians criticized the attack, but Ms. Albright rejected Mr. Ivanov's contention that the main faults lie with United Nations inspectors and their chairman, Richard Butler, and not with Mr. Hussein.
Instead, she urged Mr. Ivanov to look beyond Iraq to more important common interests that Washington and Moscow share, including Russia's own economic survival.
 In Moscow, Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin said on Thursday that the American strikes against Iraq violated the United Nations Charter and demanded that they stop, Reuters reported.
France was also annoyed with Washington for getting Mr. Butler to pull out his inspectors from Iraq without discussion with the Security Council. The French Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, said his country regretted "the situation that has been created and which prompted these American strikes in Iraq."
But the United States won public support from Japan and Canada, while China joined Russia in angrily denouncing the American strike.
And American officials were in close touch all day with top Saudi officials, given Saudi Arabia's willingness to let American and British planes refuel from Saudi bases.
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said that from the start the United States had planned to work closely with Britain. "We also had the support of many other nations," he said.
Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, also said that when the President and his aides telephoned foreign leaders they found "a good deal of support in the world."
He said the United States decided to avoid the time-consuming process of asking many countries to take part in the military operation.
"We decided that we would act with the British, ourselves, with the support of many other countries, but not necessarily with their participation," Mr. Berger said, adding that pulling together a multinational military operation would have "taken us days, if not weeks."
Tonight, at an emergency meeting of the Security Council, the Iraqi representative, Nizar Hamdoon, called for an immediate halt to the attacks. So did Russia.
Ms. Albright did not speak with Secretary General Kofi Annan at the United Nations, officials said. Mr. Annan issued a personal statement, calling this "a sad day" for the world and "me personally," because of his failure to avert the use of force.
The strikes marked the end of a nearly eight-year effort to police and disarm Iraq through the United Nations itself, rather than through powerful Security Council members.
The inspection process is largely dead, American officials say. Instead, Washington will use other forms of traditional containment, including continued economic sanctions, threats, support for opposition forces and the intermittent use of force to try to restrain Mr. Hussein. But few officials believe that air power alone can eliminate the threat posed by Iraq.
At the heart of the criticism today was America's timing and lack of new consultation, and the fear that Mr. Clinton would be perceived abroad, especially by Arab countries, as acting in his own interests to avoid rapid impeachment.
Senior American officials argued that the surprise factor and the imminence of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month, which begins this weekend, and not the impeachment vote, was forcing the schedule, but experts were not convinced and did not think the world would be.
"When other confrontations with Iraq have dragged out for days and weeks while the Administration geared up for a possible response, checked off all the diplomatic boxes and then usually did not act, how is it possible that the bombing had to happen today?" asked Robert Kagan of the Carnegie Endowment. "A reasonable person is logically forced to view this with a degree of cynicism."
Mr. Clinton had authorized similar air strikes a month ago, then called them off when Mr. Hussein promised full compliance with the United Nations. And American officials emphasized at the time that they expected Mr. Hussein to renege on his promises because, they said, he always intended to keep a core of biological and chemical weapons. The officials said that policy would open the door to the use of force later with less international criticism. And they said they had considerable concerns, about how effective the bombing campaign will be to rid Iraq of its weapons of mass destruction.
Even presuming that Mr. Clinton and his foreign policy team had no political reasons to bomb, said William Quandt, a former National Security Council official under Presidents Nixon and Carter, "my qualms are about what happens the day after the bombing stops."
"Saddam's a disaster, but will this get rid of him?" Mr. Quandt asked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meeting reporters, Secretary General Kofi Annan said yesterday was "a very sad day for me personally" after months of trying to defuse the Iraq crisis. "I deeply regret that today these efforts have proved insufficient." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Chart: "U.S. Forces In the Region . . ."
PERSONEL -- 24,100
 
SHIPS -- 27
Includes:
nCarrier Enterprise, which has about 70 warplanes on board
n1 guided-missile cruiser
n6 destroyers
n1 guided-missile frigate
n1 submarine
n2 minesweepers
 
AIRCRAFT -- 201
Includes:
n15 B-52's on the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia, each with up to 20 2,000-pound cruise missiles, with ranges of up to 1,500 miles.
 
 . . and on the Way
nCarrier Carl Vinson, also with about 70 warplanes on board.
n10 F-117 Stealth fighters
nAn expeditionary force with 36 fighter aircraft
nPatriot missile systems

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); CANADA (79%); BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); CANADA (79%); BRITISH INDIAN OCEAN TERRITORY (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



386 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: ATTACK ON IRAQ: THE OVERVIEW;
IMPEACHMENT VOTE IN HOUSE DELAYED AS CLINTON LAUNCHES IRAQ AIR STRIKE, CITING MILITARY NEED TO MOVE SWIFTLY

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES and STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16

 BODY:
President Clinton ordered a "strong sustained series of air strikes" against Iraq today, defending the attack as unavoidable even as incensed Congressional Republicans charged that it was politically timed to stave off the pending resolution to impeach him in the House of Representatives.
"Iraq has abused its final chance," Mr. Clinton declared in an address to the nation tonight as televised scenes from Baghdad reverberated with flashes of explosions and antiaircraft fire. The Pentagon said more than 200 missiles rained down upon Iraq without any diplomacy or warning about 24 hours after the chief United Nations inspector reported that President Saddam Hussein was again thwarting the inspectors' work. 
 The Associated Press reported from Baghdad that Mr. Hussein in a statement broadcast in Iraq early Thursday called on the Iraqi people to "fight the enemies of God, enemies of the nation and enemies of humanity. God will be only our side and disgrace will be theirs, now and on the day of the judgment."
As Mr. Clinton spoke, House Republican leaders, yielding to the eruption in the Iraq crisis, postponed their plans to begin on Thursday the debate leading to the second impeachment vote in American history.
"We're going to defer," the House Speaker-elect, Robert L. Livingston, said in careful comments emphasizing support for the troops involved.
Mr. Clinton said of the Iraqi President, "I gave Saddam a chance, not a license." He called once more for the overthrow of Mr. Hussein, three hours after salvos of United States cruise missiles were launched against him, followed by air strikes by Navy jets from the aircraft carrier Enterprise in the Persian Gulf.
Among the targets were suspected weapons plants, Iraqi intelligence agencies and fortifications of the military unit known as the Republican Guard, which substantially survived the Persian Gulf war in 1991 despite weeks of sustained bombing. Initial reports tonight suggested that one of Mr. Hussein's marble-clad palaces in Baghdad had also been hit, and that there were ambulances at the scene.
Initial reports from Baghdad by The Associated Press quoted a doctor as saying at least 2 people were killed and 30 wounded in the first hours.
The attacks were ordered, Mr. Clinton said, because of Iraq's refusal to live up to its promise, after defeat in the gulf war, to allow the United Nations to conduct on-site inspections for weapons of mass destruction. The timing, he insisted, was a strategic decision based on a report delivered on Tuesday by Richard Butler, the chairman of the United Nations Special Commission overseeing the disarmament.
"If we had delayed for even a matter of days," Mr. Clinton said, citing the latest reports from the United Nations inspectors, "we would have given Saddam more time to disperse his forces and protect his weapons."
His decision was immediately endorsed by Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who denounced Mr. Hussein as a serial liar. "Saddam has no intention whatever of keeping to his word," said Mr. Blair, who committed 12 Tornado fighter jets and 6 reconnaissance planes to the raids.
Soon after the first explosions, Mr. Hussein confirmed the American attack in a statement to the nation. "Resist and fight them," he declared. "The cowards have bombarded several objectives on Iraqi soil in the belief that they would make you bend."
The attack, called Desert Fox, will continue for three to four days, according to Pentagon officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. While they declined to be precise about the duration, they noted that Mr. Clinton had expressed sensitivity to the religious significance of Ramadan, the Muslim holy period that begins this weekend.
The military strike marked a clear policy departure for the Administration, for the President had earlier indicated that a major military strike could end the attempt to rein in the Hussein war machine by way of United Nations inspection. Senior officials said the Administration might have to rely on aerial surveillance and keep a large force in the region for several more years, ready to strike again when intelligence reports indicate a need.
There are 24,100 American troops in the gulf region; 22 warships, 8 of them armed with Tomahawk cruise missiles, and 201 military aircraft, according to the Defense Department. The carrier Carl Vinson is expected to join the Enterprise in the gulf on Saturday, along with six other warships able to fire cruise missiles.
The President ordered the attack on the eve of the House Republican majority's impeachment move against him after a tumultuous political day in Washington. Republicans questioned Mr. Clinton's motives in the attack as seeming to be rooted more in his political survival in office than in world security.
As the first missiles were striking Iraq, Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, issued a statement questioning "both the timing and the policy" behind Mr. Clinton's decision.
The President made one brief allusion to impeachment near the end of his 15-minutes address when he said:
"Saddam Hussein and other enemies of peace may have thought that the serious debate before the House of Representatives would distract Americans or weaken our resolve to face him down. But once more, the United States has proven that although we are never eager to use force, when we must act in America's vital interests, we will do so."
The first Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired from six destroyers, one cruiser and an attack submarine at about 11 P.M. Baghdad time (3 P.M. Eastern time). They began to hit military and industrial targets in Iraq almost simultaneously two hours later, Pentagon officials said.
The Administration has twice before carried out strikes against Iraq -- in July 1993 and September 1996 -- but today's were described as by far the largest military action in Iraq since the end of the gulf War in 1991.
The continuing operation is expected to include 15 B-52 bombers armed with air-launched cruise missiles as well as more fighters and bombers that Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen sent to the region tonight, including F-117 "Stealth" attack fighters designed to elude radar.
There were no immediate reports on the effectiveness of the raids nor any definitive word on casualties suffered on the ground, although the President said there would be "unintended" Iraqi casualties that planners were trying to minimize.
Speaking from the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton said the mission of the raids was "to protect the national interests of the United States and indeed the interests of people throughout the Middle East and around the world."
"Saddam Hussein must not be allowed to threaten his neighbors or the world with nuclear arms, poison gas or biological weapons," he said.
Amid their doubts, Republicans voiced support for the American forces at risk in the strikes. But one House leader, Gerald B. H. Solomon, chairman of the Rules Committee, was furious in accusing the President of using the attack as a political foil to impeachment.
"It is obvious that he is doing this for political reasons, and I and others are outraged," the New York Republican said outside the Capitol.
But any thought of impeachment as a factor in the military decision was denied by Secretary Cohen, a former Republican Senator. "I am prepared to place 30 years of public service on the line," he said, "to say the only factor that was important in this decision is what is in the American people's best interest."
Mr. Cohen said the raid had been in the works and planned for today since a previously ordered attack was canceled in November during an earlier confrontation with Iraq.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, added, "Militarily it was the right decision, the right date, and that decision was made back in November."
But critics questioned the timing of the attack, with some describing it as intended to exploit a war mentality as a distraction from domestic politics.
The timing "smells to high heaven," said Lawrence S. Eagleburger, who was Secretary of State in the Bush Administration. He said, however, that tough military action against Iraq was long overdue.
Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, said the timing was related to the latest report from Mr. Butler, the chief United Nations inspector, and by the military strategists' advice that any attack begin as quickly as possible. The fact that Mr. Clinton was facing the threat of impeachment, Mr. Berger said, "would not alter what he saw as his responsibility as President."
H. Norman Schwarzkopf, the retired general who was the central commander in the gulf war, expressed approval of the attack. declaring in a television interview, "By golly, the troops are committed, and we can't have people second-guessing the way they did in Vietnam."
Senator Lott, who surprised some Republicans with his statement of opposition to an overseas military enterprise, said he favored a "more clearly defined" operation, not "a cursory air strike." Central to this, he said, should be "the removal of Saddam Hussein from power."
"This Administration has squandered too many opportunities in Iraq," he contended.
Mr. Clinton, however, defended his record as the correct mixture of diplomatic and economic pressures and, finally, force. "Mark my words," he said of Mr. Hussein, "he will develop weapons of mass destruction. He will deploy them, and he will use them. Because we're acting today, it is less likely that we will face these dangers in the future."
He said that even if the United Nations inspectors could stay in Iraq, their work would be "a sham."
"Saddam's deception has defeated their effectiveness," he said. "Instead of the inspectors disarming Saddam, Saddam has disarmed the inspectors."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I gave Saddam a chance," President Clinton said in announcing strikes on Baghdad. As some Republicans voiced suspicions the Speaker-elect, Robert L. Livingston, emphasized support for American troops. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(Associated Press)(Reuters)(pg. A1); Antiaircraft fire from the ground lighted the sky shortly after midnight today, Baghdad time, as United States and British forces began air strikes. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A14)
 
Map showing the location of Iraq: Cruise missiles were fired at Iraq, followed by Navy air strikes. (pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (55%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); INSPECTIONS (75%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); HISTORY (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (64%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



387 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: PLUS: COLLEGE FOOTBALL -- OHIO STATE;
Tailback Wants Eligibility Extended

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Joe Montgomery, the second-leading rusher for third-ranked Ohio State, has petitioned the National Collegiate Athletic Association to return for another season.
 Montgomery, who has gained 670 yards and scored 6 touchdowns, was declared academically ineligible his freshman season after the N.C.A.A. refused to approve an economics course he took at Oak Lawn Richards High School in Illinois. 
 Montgomery, whose team plays Texas A&M in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 1, said that class is now accepted by the N.C.A.A. as a core course.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); CORE CURRICULUM (83%); 

PERSON: JOE MONTGOMERY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



388 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

3M Is Latest Blue Chip To Issue Earnings Warning
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, the industrial giant that makes Post-it notes, Scotch tapes and consumer health products, joined the list of blue-chip companies that have warned that slumping global sales and a slowdown at home could cut fourth-quarter net.
3M's forecast that earnings could fall 10 percent from a year earlier sent its shares down $2.375, to $71.375. Page C2. 

Need Seen for Hedge Fund Scrutiny
Regulators may need to insist that banks scrutinize hedge funds more closely and lend less freely to avoid such crises as the near-failure in September of Long-Term Capital Management, a Federal Reserve official told a Senate committee. C4.
 
Goldman, Sachs in Chinese Rescue
Goldman, Sachs announced that it would enter a partnership with the government of Guangdong province in southern China to help rescue Guangdong Enterprises Holdings, a state-owned investment conglomerate. Goldman will put $20 million of capital into the company once it is reorganized. C6.
 
Ex-U.S. Attorney Pleads Guilty
A former United States Attorney in West Virginia, who also served as the top enforcement officer of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and a second man pleaded guilty to charges stemming from their roles in telemarketing schemes that cheated would-be investors of more than $80 million. C4.
 
Sunbeam Losses Exceed Forecasts
Sunbeam, reporting downward revisions in financial results for the second and third quarters that were worse than analysts had forecast, said it had a $587 million loss for the first nine months of this year. C4.
 
Quintiles to Acquire Envoy
In its third acquisition to be announced this week, Quintiles Transnational, the nation's largest provider of clinical drug trials, said that it would buy Envoy for $1.7 billion in stock. Shares of Envoy rose 18.9 percent, or $8, to $50.25. In contrast, the Quintiles shares fell 18.4 percent, or $10.3125, to $45.875. C4.
 
Home Building Strong in November
Mild weather was a boon to home building in November as builders broke ground for new homes at a strong seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.65 million units. But utilities cut fuel output, and industrial production eased three-tenths of 1 percent. C7.
 
Boeing Chairman Holding On
After a directors' meeting, the chairman of Boeing, Philip M. Condit, sent E-mail to managers saying he was still in charge. The company's commercial airplane division has lost billions of dollars. C8.
 
Phoenix to Buy Zweig Mutual Funds
Phoenix Investment Partners, the 10th-largest publicly traded money manager, agreed to buy the mutual-fund business run by Martin Zweig for as much as $164 million in cash. C7.
 
Donald Yacktman claimed victory, saying a "preliminary tally" of shareholder votes showed that an overwhelming majority supported his effort to win control of the Yacktman Fund and Yacktman Focused Fund. C9.
 
Auction of Thai Loans Falls Flat
Thailand's effort to raise money for its stalled economy by auctioning off billions of dollars in loans has not succeeded, and the authorities acknowledged that foreign investors were not ready to return. C6.
 
Auto Plant in Japan May Close
A Toyota affiliate, Kanto Auto Works, might close a plant, which would make it the latest Japanese auto company to cut excess capacity. Nissan and Mitsubishi have already announced such plans. C6.
 
Japanese Tax Cut Proposed
The tax panel of Japan's governing political party proposed an $80 billion tax cut during the next fiscal year to spur economic growth. C7.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Business Digest on Thursday about Sunbeam's performance referred incorrectly to the release of its second-quarter and third-quarter results. They were released on Wednesday for the first time, not revised downward.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,790.60, down 32.70
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.99%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 116.53 yen, up 0.18
 
Graphs track the share prices of 3M and Envoy, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (92%); MMM (NYSE) (92%); MMM (FRA) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); Q (NYSE) (67%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); VRTS (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (92%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (67%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (71%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: 3M CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL CORP (67%); QUINTILES TRANSNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (67%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); BOEING CO (51%); VIRTUS INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (50%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CHINA (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (71%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FUTURES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); WEATHER (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); TELEMARKETING (65%); 

PERSON: DONALD YACKTMAN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



389 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 17, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 5;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: 56 Are Indicted in Thefts Of Kennedy Airport Cargo

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
Law enforcement officials yesterday shut down a major theft ring that they said stole millions of dollars in merchandise from warehouses around Kennedy International Airport, moving against a crime that officials say saddles customers with incalculable hidden costs on many everyday purchases.
Officials recovered more than $5 million in stolen items that ranged from specialized items like airplane data recorders and designer Italian suits to more common purchases like Disney wall clocks, bottles of aspirin and anti-smoking kits. They said, however, that the $5 million in goods was probably only a small percentage of the total losses from cargo theft in and around the airport. 
 The two-year investigation involved city, state and Federal officials and resulted in the indictment of 56 people, including warehouse owners, teamster shop stewards and owners of stores across the city that sold the stolen goods.
As the announcement was being made, as many as 300 law enforcement officials at all levels were rounding up the suspects, 43 of whom were in custody by last night.
The Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, said that "virtually everything and anything that moves through J.F.K." was included in the theft ring's inventory. He said breaking up the ring was crucial for "protecting one of New York's most valuable economic resources, the airport, but also the consuming public, which in the end foots the bill for all air cargo theft."
The airport's $100-billion-a-year air cargo industry, which has made it the fourth busiest cargo airport in the world, has long been a target of theft and corruption operations that for years had been controlled by organized crime. Officials said that at least two of the people arrested yesterday had ties to the Lucchese and Gambino crime families, but added that organized crime no longer had exclusive involvement in air cargo theft, as most of those arrested were warehouse workers or otherwise legitimate business owners.
"The airport has been known as the mob's candy store for a long time," Mr. Brown said. "But a great number of the people in this ring were not involved with organized crime at all."
Robert M. Caron, a detective with the police of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey who participated in the investigation, said that cargo theft had become so routine at airports across the country that many companies regularly shipped far more items than a retailer ordered because they expected a certain amount to be stolen. He said that the computer industry in particular had become a popular target.
The record of recovered stolen goods read like an exhaustive holiday shopping list. There were hundreds of name-brand laptop computers, 11,000 Remington electric shavers valued at $1.8 million, boxes of Kodak cameras and 10,000 rolls of Kodak film; crates of Hugo Boss and Estee Lauder perfume, racks of designer suits, loads of Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren shirts and sweaters, cases of Versace sunglasses and $242,000 worth of cigars.
Officials said they first learned of the ring in the summer of 1996 when BAX Global, a shipping concern with a warehouse at Kennedy Airport, discovered two employees stealing laptop computers. Mr. Brown said that instead of reducing operations at the airport, the company assisted in the investigation. A task force was created that included the District Attorney's office, the New York Police Department, the New York State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Postal inspection Service.
Officials said that information from the workers at BAX eventually led them to a man named Lewis Luxenberg, 54, who apparently brokered the sale of millions of dollars in stolen goods from his home in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn.
Officials said that workers and owners would contact Mr. Luxenberg whenever they stole items that were being shipped through their warehouses and that Mr. Luxembourg in turn would find shop owners in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island who were willing to sell the goods.
The two people indicted in the ring who officials said were connected to organized crime are Louis Tranese, whom the District Attorney's office yesterday called an associate of the Lucchese crime family known as Old Man Louie, and Frank Daviano, who the officials said was connected to the Gambino crime family and is known as Frankie Suits. Mr Tranese was accused of supplying Mr. Luxenberg with the stolen goods, while Mr. Daviano was charged with selling stolen items on the black market.
Officials said last night that Mr. Luxenberg and Mr. Tranese had been arrested and that Mr. Daviano was being sought.
Investigators used wiretaps to follow the trail of the stolen goods and found dozens of items that were not funneled through the airport but were handled by Mr. Luxenberg, including 180,000 32-cent postage stamps that were apparently stolen from post offices across New York State and cases of cigars stolen from a tobacco company in New Jersey.
Twenty of the 56 people named in the grand jury indictment that was unsealed yesterday were charged under the state's Organized Crime Control Act and face up to 25 years in prison if convicted. The 36 other people were charged with theft and criminal possession of stolen property and face up to 7 or 15 years in prison depending on the specific charges against them.
Workers at other cargo companies at Kennedy Airport said yesterday that they were not surprised at news of the theft ring.
"Theft goes on all the time," said Everett Mann, who works for Atlas Cargo at the airport. "It's a fact of life in these organizations. A lot of it depends on the type of employees you have working for you."
Fred V. Morrone, superintendent of the Port Authority police, said that despite yesterday's announcement, only $3 million in cargo was reported stolen in 1997. But others say only a small fraction of the goods stolen is ever reported to the police.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Thursday with an article about a major theft ring operating from warehouses around Kennedy International Airport was printed in error. The building shown had no connection to the theft ring. The erroneous picture and the correct one, with a corrected caption, appear today on page B5.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A warehouse on Bragg Street in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, that the police said was used to fence goods stolen from Kennedy Airport cargo. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (50%); NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. LARCENY & THEFT (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); ARRESTS (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); SMOKING (74%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS LUXENBERG (81%); RICHARD A BROWN (64%); FRANK DAVIANO (60%); LOUIS TRANESE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998



390 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Tries to Increase Appeal of Electric Car

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
THE General Motors Corporation sent a top technology executive here recently to promote the latest version of its EV1 electric car, which has new batteries that are supposed to double the driving range to 140 miles between charges.
"We're still going after the innovator who wants the latest," said Frank W. Pereira, the G.M. brand manager for advanced technology vehicles. "This will reach a greater circle of people. It will have utility for more of them." 
 In an effort to dispel consumer reservations over the costs associated with the aerodynamic two-seater, G.M. also lowered by $1,000, to $500, the cost of installing a home recharger -- a requirement of ownership, since the charging process takes several hours. There are just 300 public charging sites in Southern California and the San Francisco Bay area. There are 43 charging sites in Arizona; G.M. also leases its electric car in Phoenix and Tucson.
Also this month, Ford cut the cost of its home recharging equipment to $295 and lowered the lease price of its electric Ranger pickup to $349 or $450 a month, depending on the batteries.
G.M. will produce just 500 of the 1999-model EV1's, including the new version equipped with a pack of 26 nickel-metal-hydride batteries that cost $35,000 a car. The nickel-metal EV1 will lease for $499 a month for three years, including the cost of the charger. G.M. will also offer a so-called high-capacity version, with improved lead-acid batteries that are supposed to increase the range by 20 percent and will lease for $424 a month. Last year's EV1, with conventional lead-acid batteries, cost $399 a month.
The new model looks just like its predecessor, whose range turned out to be generally less than the predicted 90 miles between charges.
Demand for the EV1 has been tepid since its introduction in December 1996, with only about 540 being leased. Sales did not even budge after a local utility company offered employees a $100-a-month subsidy last summer, said Robert J. Randall, an EV1 salesman in the Orange County city of Irvine. "That proved to us price was not the issue."
California is the nation's proving ground for electric vehicles, sparked by state regulations requiring that 10 percent of all vehicles sold in the state be emission-free starting in 2003. About 1,700 electric vehicles have been sold in the last two years, including models from Toyota, Honda and Ford. Chrysler plans to start selling an electric minivan here next year.
The state is also a battleground over the best method for recharging electric cars. The EV1 uses an inductive system that transmits energy through a paddle, in the form of alternating magnetic fields. Ford's electric Ranger, Honda's EV Plus and Chrysler's Epic van use conductive charging, drawn from a copper plug similar to those used for clothes dryers and electric ranges. Toyota is switching its 1999 RAV4-EV to inductive charging, from conductive.
The charging dispute is akin to the Beta vs. VHS battle in videocassette recorders, or the Apple vs. Microsoft split in personal computers. The two methods' technical merits and cost differences were hotly debated at the industry conference in Phoenix this month where Ford and General Motors made their announcements.
Left unresolved, the squabble over a single charging standard will hurt the industry, said Tom Gage, business manager of AC Propulsion Inc. in San Dimas, Calif., which makes electric vehicle motors powered by lead-acid batteries.
For electric cars to become more than niche vehicles, charging sites must be ubiquitious and batteries must cost less, Mr. Gage said. The true economic costs of the batteries and the charging infrastructure are being masked by subsidies from utilities, governments and the auto makers. "At some point, it has to become a real business," he said.
Mark H. Sterner, an EV1 owner from Riverside, Calif., said he expected nickel-metal-hydride batteries to assuage fears of running out of charge, as happened to him one cold day when he was driving into headwinds between mountains.
Instead of calling a tow truck, he settled into a motel in Banning, an isolated desert town on the way to Palm Springs, to use a portable 110-volt emergency recharger.
"They look at you funny when you say you only want a place for three hours," he said. He plans to get one of the new, longer-range EV1's soon. "No more nights in Banning," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); LEAD (70%); SALES & SELLING (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



391 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 20; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Assorted Itinerants on a Desolate Southwestern Road

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
The biggest mystery about "Outside Ozona" isn't the identity of the serial killer who cuts out the hearts of his female victims. (The murderer, who is obvious from the moment he appears, is shown doing his dirty work roughly halfway through the film.) The wonder is why reputable actors agreed to appear in a movie whose plodding screenplay, by J. S. Cardone, who also directed, has the feel of an earnest, immature play-wrighting exercise.
The characters in this implausible, awkwardly acted melodrama are Texans and Oklahomans whose tidy little speeches are devoid of vernacular tang or credibility. The story methodically cuts from an Oklahoma radio station where a rebellious all-night disk jockey (Taj Mahal) plays the blues instead of country music, to the chagrin of the station manager (Meat Loaf) and assorted itinerants on the road. 
 Tuning in to the all-night broadcast while driving through the desolate Southwest are three sets of couples and a weather-beaten trucker. While listening to these cardboard characters bicker, it's all too easy to picture them as entries in a screenwriter's notebook, with each one's background details and personality traits duly ticked off as the movie slogs along.
The couples include a grumpy unemployed clown (Kevin Pollak) and his white-trash girlfriend (Penelope Ann Miller); two feuding sisters, one a yuppie nightmare, the other an easygoing salt-of-the-earth type, and a young Navajo woman and her dying grandmother.
Robert Forster is a rugged trucker with a heart of gold who rescues a stray dog at a filling station, and Swoosie Kurtz plays a hard-bitten truck-stop waitress who pines for him. David Paymer is a soft-spoken Chicago psychiatrist who is unaccountably on the road in the middle of the night.
Long before the story culminates in a fiery highway collision, these lifeless creations have worn out their welcome by talking our ears off without saying anything of significance.
"Outside Ozona" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has violence, nudity, profanity and considerable gore.
 
OUTSIDE OZONA
 
Written and directed by J. S. Cardone; director of photography, Irek Hartowicz; edited by Amanda Kirpaul; music by Taj Mahal and Johnny Lee Schell; production designer, Martina Buckley; produced by Carol Kottenbrook and Scott Einbinder; released by Tri-Star Pictures. Running time: 98 minutes. This film is rated R.
 
WITH: Robert Forster (Odell Parks), Kevin Pollak (Wit Roy), Sherilyn Fenn (Marcy Duggan), David Paymer (Alan Defaux), Penelope Ann Miller (Earlene Demers), Swoosie Kurtz (Rosalee), Taj Mahal (Dix Mayal) and Meat Loaf (Floyd Bibbs).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); TEXAS, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); MURDER (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); WRITERS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); COUNTRY MUSIC (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%); DOGS (63%); 

PERSON: ANN MILLER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



392 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: October Trade Deficit Narrowed

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
The trade deficit in goods and services narrowed in October, and improved international demand for American products signaled that a recovery might be near for the nation's exporters.
The Commerce Department said today that the trade deficit unexpectedly dropped to $14.2 billion in October after having narrowed in September to a revised $14.4 billion. Analysts had expected an October shortfall of $15.1 billion. 
 Exports climbed 2.8 percent, to $79.6 billion, as shipments of food and farm products rose to the highest level since February. Exports of semiconductors and computer accessories also increased.
Imports rose, but at a slower pace, increasing 2.2 percent, to a record $93.8 billion. They were led by imports of aircraft and engines and record purchases of autos and advanced technology.
"The deficit seems to be stabilizing and exports are rising," said Joel Naroff, an economist at the First Union Corporation in Philadelphia.
In another report today, the Labor Department said the number of first-time jobless claims filed last week fell by 31,000, to 296,000, the lowest level since September. The less volatile four-week moving average of jobless claims also declined.
Manufacturing has been the only weak spot in economic performance this year. The economy grew at a 3.7 percent annual rate through September, and the current expansion is in its 93d month, a peacetime record. Through October, however, exports of goods declined from a year ago, falling to $556 billion from $562.7 billion in the first 10 months of 1997.
"If Asia continues to recover and Latin America doesn't go into the tank, we may see export growth improve further," said Michael Fenollosa at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston. But, he cautioned, those economies are "still shaky."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (65%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXPORT TRADE (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



393 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Markets Shrug Off Air Strikes and Looming Impeachment Vote

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Financial markets around the world shrugged off the uncertainty posed by the American military strikes on Iraq and the looming impeachment vote in the House of Representatives as investors viewed both events as potentially serious but had little doubt about the outcome.
Across the globe, markets reversed the course they set on Wednesday as events unfolded. Stock prices rose in Asia, Europe and the United States, crude oil slumped nearly 11 percent in New York trading, to about $11 a barrel, the dollar fell and bond prices slipped lower. 
 By the time stocks started trading in the United States, investors had more pressing things on their minds than bombs or impeachment. Shares of Amazon.com opened down $25 -- a drop of nearly 10 percent -- presenting Internet-mad stock traders with one of their best buying opportunities in weeks.
Traders and financial analysts said several factors accounted for the relative calm on Wall Street. Unlike 1990, when Iraq suddenly invaded Kuwait, or even more recently, when the United States had unleashed reprisals on Baghdad or terrorist hideouts in the Sudan, Wednesday's assault evoked little real surprise. President Clinton had backed off a similar attack only weeks ago when it appeared that Iraq might cooperate with United Nations weapons inspectors.
And while oil prices rose sharply on Wednesday in anticipation of the bombing strike, their larger retreat yesterday signaled that the economy was probably in little danger of feeling the jolt that was produced by a sharper and ultimately longer-lasting rise in oil prices after Iraq's aggression in 1990.
Similarly, the impeachment of President Clinton by the House of Representatives is viewed by many on Wall Street as all but certain, and only mild anxiety so far surrounds a possible Senate trial next year. In the meantime, said Edward Collins, head of trading at Daiwa Securities America, the financial markets have other events in view, namely the release of fourth-quarter corporate earnings reports.
"It's probably sacrilegious to say it, but I don't think whoever is in the White House has as much to do with what goes on in the business world or the market as the fact that right now the Federal Reserve is being extremely friendly," Mr. Collins said. By keeping interest rates low and the supply of money flowing, the Fed has most investors feeling they have little reason to worry about a quick downturn in the economy.
Those generally positive views caused investors to push stock prices higher across the board yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 85.22 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 8,875.82, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 18.04 points, or 1.55 percent, to 1,179.98.
Since the stock market's midsummer slump, both of those benchmarks have lagged behind the Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily laden with the technology stocks that have been the hottest performers this year.
Yesterday, the Nasdaq index jumped 34.52 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,043.88, finishing the day more than 30 percent above where it started the year. That is more than double the 12 percent rise in the Dow industrials and well ahead of the 22 percent gain in the S.& P. 500.
In the bond market, Treasury prices fell as reports on trade, jobs and manufacturing signaled the economy was stronger than some investors expected. The price of the benchmark 30-year issue fell 11/32, to 103 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.01 percent, from 4.99 percent on Wednesday.
Certainly events could turn darker for the markets and the economy generally, and investors could even see the return of a bit more volatility to the market today, traders said. Today's session marks the quarterly occurrence known as "triple witching," when options, futures contracts and options on futures all expire, sometimes accompanied by more frenetic trading.
The greatest activity yesterday could be found among financial and technology stocks as investors reacted positively to Chase Manhattan Bank's announcement on Wednesday that its fourth-quarter profits would be better than expected. Chase shares gained 6 3/8, to 69 7/8, their highest level since mid-August.
In addition, shares of the semiconductor manufacturer Micron Technology rose 6, to 52 7/8, as some financial analysts sensed improving demand for computer memory chips. Abby Joseph Cohen, the widely followed investment strategist at Goldman, Sachs & Company, told clients in a recent report that many semiconductor-related companies might be well situated to generate earnings gains.
That view helped to pull technology stocks generally higher, and as they are wont to do, investors used any hint of good news as an excuse to buy shares of Internet-related companies like Yahoo and America Online. Even Amazon.com, which opened the day at 264 after trading above 300 for the first time on Wednesday, cut its losses in half by the end of the day, finishing down 12 1/4, at 276 3/4.
As investors look ahead to the beginning of the year, there are several things that are likely to weigh more heavily on their minds if they have not begun to do so already.
In the wake of the market's October reprise of its August decline, mutual funds have been a bit slower than usual to put new cash to work, financial analysts say. In addition, there is every reason to expect that January will bring a flood of new money into those portfolios as a new cycle of payments into retirement plans begins.
Therefore, institutional investors "are feeling the need to put money to work beforehand," Mr. Collins said.
But other factors could begin to temper the optimism of investors as the year progresses. Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers, said that the new year would only bring more discussion and confusion about the possible effect of the Year 2000 problem.
"It's hard to see how Y2K isn't going to create some distortions in market and economic activity," Mr. Applegate said.
"For example, the preference for just-in-time inventory could turn into just-in-case, and we could see an inventory buildup," he said. In addition, he said, "there are likely to be a whole lot of little credit crunches going on, even before the Year 2000 gets here."
Ms. Cohen of Goldman, Sachs released a report to clients late Wednesday in which she said that stock prices could still gain but at slower rates than in recent years. And stock picking will become more important than simply buying a market index, she added.
"We believe that the S.& P. 500 is roughly at fair value based on our views for the coming year," she wrote. "But several sectors appear to offer more attractive value opportunities," among them semiconductor-related companies and energy stocks.
Mr. Applegate, too, has indicated that gains in the market next year should be more in line with long-term trends -- and far below the returns of 25 percent or more experienced over the last four years.
Mr. Applegate said his 1999 price target for the S.& P. 500 was 1,250, less than 6 percent above yesterday's close. Ms. Cohen, meanwhile, said her year-end price target was 1,275, or 8 percent above the index's current level. That is roughly equivalent to 9,850 for the Dow industrials, she added, or about 10 percent above the gauge's current price.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since December 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C8)
 
Another graph shows that over the two days that Iraq has been under attack, world markets have remained calm . . .
 
. . . meanwhile, oil prices fell yesterday after initial concerns about supplies abated.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); SUDAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); SUDAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. IMPEACHMENT (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); TERRORISM (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



394 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
U.S. Economy, Hotbed of Rest In Sea of Crisis And Confusion

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17

 BODY:
A political crisis is unfolding at home and a military action is under way abroad. But when the Federal Reserve meets to consider interest rate policy on Tuesday, it will face an economic outlook that while complex and a bit confusing is more stable than it has been for months.
The fear that had threatened to paralyze the bond market earlier this fall has ebbed, although it has not disappeared. The stock market is robust again, bolstering spending by consumers, who are also benefiting from the strongest growth in real income in years. 
 Manufacturers and farmers continue to be hit hard by the global financial crisis, but even they got good news today when the Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit in October was $14.2 billion, much lower than expected, and that exports grew 2.8 percent. Asia is showing signs of stabilizing, and Brazil has managed to avoid a meltdown.
Talk of a recession in the United States in 1999 has evaporated. And not only do analysts expect that the Fed will leave rates unchanged on Tuesday after cutting rates three times in the last three months, but chances are increasing that the central bank will remain on hold for months to come.
"The economy has proven stronger than they thought when they were easing, and the prospects for slowing ahead are much diminished, both on account of the consumer and the reopening of the fixed-income markets to new issues," said Rosanne M. Cahn, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
Heading into 1999, Ms. Cahn said, "the Fed will be on hold unless there is another financial market disturbance."
Following its last rate cut, on Nov. 17, the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee signaled that it might hold off on further reductions, saying that financial conditions "can reasonably be expected to be consistent with fostering sustained economic expansion."
Still, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and a number of other Fed officials have remained concerned that financial market strains could put the nation's long expansion at risk if not reversed. By some measures, those strains have eased considerably; companies are finding it easier to issue new debt, for example.
But by others, the problems remain significant. In particular, the spread between the yield on United States Treasury bonds and riskier forms of debt remains abnormally high, suggesting continued risk aversion on the part of investors and a lack of demand from hedge funds, banks and securities firms that suffered big losses in the spasms that gripped the markets in late summer and early fall.
Yet Fed officials are closely studying the real economy as well as financial conditions. They see an economy that is slowing somewhat, tugged between the strength of consumer demand and weak and still fragile conditions in the industrial sector.
The risk of a marked slowdown in growth appears greater to them than the risk of a rapid acceleration in growth, they said. The strength of consumer demand will be driven largely by the stock market. While another big surge on Wall Street is by no means out of the question, they said, anything short of significant increases in paper wealth is likely to bring some slowdown in the growth of consumer demand.
On the industrial side of the economy, much will depend on the recovery of export markets. Today's trade figures were a hopeful sign, showing a rebound in exports of food, semiconductors and computer accessories and manufactured goods. Most big export markets, though, seem more likely to be flat or weaker in 1999 than to be stronger, Fed officials and analysts said.
Japan has shown few signs of pulling out of its economic swoon. South Korea has shown some signs of recovery but remains fragile, as do most other Asian nations and Latin America. Europe appears to be facing a slowdown, a forecast that helped push most of the Continent's central banks to cut interest rates earlier this month.
Today's trade report "does not necessarily indicate a turning of the tide" for American exporters, said Howard Lewis 3d, the vice president for economic policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, which is pressing for further rate cuts by the Fed.
"Looser monetary policy will help provide liquidity to cash-strapped nations in the Far East," Mr. Lewis said. "This will increase the demand for U.S. exports as the Asian economies get back on track."
The Fed has been concerned in recent months that growth next year would dip to below 2.25 percent or 2.5 percent, which many economists consider the level at which the economy can grow over the long run without igniting inflation. But some Fed officials have been raising their growth estimates.
Growth over the first three quarters this year has averaged 3.7 percent, and data in recent weeks suggest this quarter will be equally strong.
"The outlook for the fourth quarter of this year and for next year has strengthened considerably over the past six to eight weeks," Jack Beebe, the director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a report last week. He raised his forecast for growth in 1999 to 2.75 percent from 1.5 percent, although he warned that the outlook was subject to "enormous uncertainty."
Balancing and perhaps even outweighing the concern about growth slowing too rapidly is concern among one camp within the Fed that inflationary pressures will continue to build. That camp sees the prospect of a period of below-trend growth as healthy, suggesting at a minimum that they will be unwilling to support further easing as long as unemployment remains low and the stock market remains buoyant.
Although inflation is dormant by most measures, it is not dead, economists said. Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm, said the core Producer Price Index has risen at an annual pace of 2.2 percent over the last three months, its fastest rate of increase since January 1996.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



395 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Earth Temperature in 1998 Is Reported at Record High

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
The earth's average surface temperature in 1998 is the highest by far since people first began to measure it with thermometers in the mid-19th century, the World Meteorological Organization reported yesterday.
The organization, an agency of the United Nations, said 1998 would be the 20th year in a row that the globe's surface has been warmer than its recent long-term average, which is the average for 1961 through 1990. Seven of the 10 warmest years on record have occurred since 1990 and the other three occurred after 1983. Most recently, new monthly high-temperature records were set in each of the 18 consecutive months ending in October 1998. 
 The results, based on data through mid-December and reported in Geneva, will change slightly when final data are calculated. But experts say it is certain that 1998 will turn out to be the warmest year on record, and almost as certainly by an easy margin over the the previous warmest, 1997.
According to the new figures, the average global temperature this year will turn out to be about 58 degrees, a full degree warmer than the 1961-1990 average.
"This number's amazing," said Dr. Philip D. Jones, a climatologist at the University of East Anglia in England, speaking of a field in which records are normally set in fractions. Dr. Jones provided much of the information on which yesterday's announcement was based.
While there are dissenters who believe the warmer climate can be explained by normal variation, the dominant view among climate scientists is that at least some of the warming trend is a result of emissions of heat-trapping waste industrial gases like carbon dioxide, which is produced by the burning of coal, oil, natural gas and wood.
Despite the 1998 record, a number of scientists said they believed the world was likely to be cooler in 1999 and possibly 2000 as well. The reason, they said, is that a fair measure of the warming in 1998 can be attributed to the effects earlier in the year of El Nino, the extensive pool of warm water that develops from time to time in the tropical Pacific. It both warms the global atmosphere and disrupts worldwide weather patterns.
But even though a dissipating El Nino may allow some cooling next year, several experts said they expected the underlying global warming trend to continue and temperatures to remain above average in the immediate future. The findings about 1998 were not a surprise, since highly publicized analyses by Federal scientists had made it clear since midyear that 1998 was shaping up as the warmest year on record.
Among other contributors to the United Nations agency's report were the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York, the British Meteorological Office, the National Climatic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center and University of Alabama in Huntsville, Ala., the International Research Institute in New York and the Climatic Prediction Center in Washington.
Based on studies of indirect evidence like the annual rings of trees, Dr. Jones has been saying for some time that he believes 1998 to be not only the warmest year in the thermometer record, but also the warmest year of this millennium.
As new global high-temperature records have been established in the 1990's, they have usually exceeded old ones by mere hundredths of a degree at a time. But if the new estimate holds up, 1998 will top the 1997 record by about a quarter of a degree. The difference may appear small, but the world is only 5 to 9 degrees warmer now than in the depths of the last ice age. According to the numbers announced yesterday, the globe is about 1.25 degrees warmer than at the beginning of this century.
The actual average surface temperature of the earth this year will come in at about 58 degrees, according to the British data sets. Other data sets vary slightly.
Mainstream scientists project that the surface will warm by an additional 2 to 6 degrees over the next century if carbon dioxide emissions are not reduced, with the largest increases in temperate and sub-Arctic latitudes. Among other things, they say, this will make hot weather, droughts and floods more likely while reducing the number of extremely cold days, raise the level of the seas, cause climatic zones to shift and produce widespread environmental and economic dislocations.
Not all regions of the world have warmed in recent years, and each year there are some cool spots; in 1998, Eurasia was one of these. One place that has often lagged in the warming trend is the United States. But this year, according to an analysis by the Goddard center in New York, North America led the warming trend, experiencing its warmest year in the last four decades.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (58%); ENGLAND (55%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (70%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (77%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NASA GODDARD INSTITUTE (69%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (58%); ENGLAND (55%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (70%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (77%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. METEOROLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (89%); TRENDS (89%); EL NINO & LA NINA (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); THERMAL SENSORS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (68%); SPACE EXPLORATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (63%); NATURAL GAS (63%); 

PERSON: PHILIP D JONES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



396 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: A New Strategy to Restrain Iraq

 BODY:
The American and British air attacks against Iraq should be the opening move in a new approach for dealing with Saddam Hussein. Several opportunities may exist, notably through new diplomacy in the Middle East. Taking advantage of them will require creative thinking by Washington.
Some of the familiar mechanisms employed over the last seven years to restrain Iraq are unlikely to work when the bombing ends. United Nations weapons inspectors will probably not return to Iraq any time soon. A divided U.N. Security Council cannot provide firm leadership on Iraq. 
 Washington should look to the Middle East for leverage against Baghdad. Iran is one possibility. Larger and more populous than Iraq, Iran can serve as a counterweight to Baghdad's ambitions. Since Mohammad Khatami was elected Iran's President, Washington and Teheran have moved cautiously to end two decades of estrangement. Better relations between America and Iran would serve both countries and intimidate Iraq.
The United States also needs to reinforce its relations with Saudi Arabia, Syria and Egypt. That will require redoubled American efforts to save the Israeli-Palestinian peace, now hostage to probable Israeli elections next year. Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has compounded Washington's problems with his unjustified suspension of Israeli compliance with the Wye accords.
The Saudis, who have themselves begun to repair relations with Iran, can provide the airfields America will need for long-term military containment of Iraq. But Saudi rulers are wary of domestic opposition to such basing arrangements and will be able to move ahead only if there is further progress on Israeli-Palestinian issues. Egypt and Syria both took part in the American-led coalition against Iraq in 1991 and last month joined the Saudis and the gulf emirates in publicly blaming Iraq for forcing a military confrontation with Washington. Both could again become important American partners, reinforcing Arab diplomatic and economic pressures on Baghdad.
In Egypt's case, partnership depends on advancing the Oslo peace agreements. Cairo sees economic and political gains for the Palestinians as crucial to its own security and prestige. Relations with Syria, never easy, could be improved by encouraging a resumption of peace talks between Israel and Syria over Lebanon and the Golan Heights.
Syria and Iran have sponsored terrorism in the past, and harbor their own ambitions to develop mass-destruction weapons. But a collective effort to contain Iraq, linked to a firm break with terror and guarantees on weapons programs, may be possible. America is not the only nation interested in restraining Iraq. Saddam Hussein's neighbors have even greater reason to fear his weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (94%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (72%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (94%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



397 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: ON TWO FRONTS: THE POLLS;
Wide U.S. Support for Air Strikes

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
The American public overwhelmingly supports the military action in Iraq and accepts President Clinton's explanation about its timing and its purpose, according to four national polls taken on Wednesday evening after the bombing began.
Widespread support is customarily the first reaction to any military action by the United States, as the public rallies around the President. These first polls show that that is occurring this time as well, despite questions raised by Mr. Clinton's critics about the timing of the attack. 
 The air strikes against Iraq were viewed favorably by about three-quarters of the public -- 73 percent in the ABC News poll, 79 percent in the CBS News poll, 75 percent in the NBC News poll and 74 percent in the poll conducted by the Gallup Organization for CNN and USA Today.
Most Americans accept that immediate action by the United States was warranted and proper, rather than a ploy to delay yesterday's scheduled Congressional debate on impeachment. In the Gallup poll, 62 percent said Mr. Clinton ordered the strikes "solely because he felt it was in the best interests of the country."
CBS News found that those who support impeachment were evenly divided on whether the timing of the strikes was motivated by yesterday's scheduled debate, while those who oppose impeachment overwhelmingly rejected the notion that the decision was connected to those proceedings. Most Americans (60 percent in the ABC poll) continued to oppose impeachment proceedings.
In the CBS News poll, 62 percent said the military action was worth the costs of attacking Iraq, even if it meant that American lives were lost.
But the public is divided on whether this military action will achieve its goal. In the ABC News Poll, 41 percent said the attack would interfere with Iraq's ability to produce weapons of mass destruction, while 46 percent said it would not.
The national polls were conducted by telephone on Wednesday night; ABC News interviewed 510 adults, CBS News 413 adults, NBC News 503 adults and Gallup 543 adults. The margin of sampling error for each poll was five percentage points in either direction. In addition, polls conducted entirely in one night introduce additional potential error because only people at home during a limited time period can be reached.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton talked to reporters about the air strikes before a meeting yesterday with national security advisers, including, from left, Vice President Al Gore; Gen. Hugh Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; George J. Tenet, the C.I.A. Director, and Rear Adm. Thomas R. Wilson of the Navy. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (92%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); US NAVY (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); US NAVY (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (58%); JAMES D SHELTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



398 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Opens Buick Plant In Shanghai

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Dec. 17

 BODY:
At the crowning moment in today's balloons-and-marching-band ceremony to roll out the first Buick made in China, John F. Smith Jr., chairman of the General Motors Corporation, got behind the wheel of a shiny white 1999 sedan, strapped on his seat belt, and was unable to make the car move.
Mr. Smith reached down to release the emergency brake, but could not find it. Instead, he popped the hood open. Only after engineers rushed frantically to Mr. Smith's side was he reminded that the Buick's brake release was a foot pedal. Finally on his way, he drove the Buick up a red carpet onto a broad stage, to cheers from a crowd of more than 2,000 staff members and guests. 
 "You don't use that brake in America," Mr. Smith said later, chuckling at himself.
It was a small fumble on a day that signified a start for General Motors' grand plans to break into the car market here. But it suggested the challenges facing the company in China, where oversupply and a heavily politicized bureaucracy have to be mixed with the ample difficulty in weaving a merger of two vastly different car cultures.
General Motors is making a big bet on China, sinking $2 billion into 16 ventures here, mostly for auto components. The Shanghai General Motors plant is the biggest of them all, with 1,700 employees and plans to build 100,000 Buick sedans a year. The auto maker's $750 million investment in the factory represents the single biggest American investment in China.
The main question is who will buy the cars. Priced at roughly $40,000 each, the large-engine Buick is not obviously well suited to a poor country with crowded city streets and bumpy country roads. Demand is falling, and the best-selling car in China so far is an unadorned Volkswagen that costs about $15,000.
The next question is whether an experienced car manufacturer like G.M. will have the control it needs to make operations work in areas more complex than the simple use of an emergency brake.
China's clunky bureaucracy still wields tremendous influence over the car industry. Although being in a 50-50 joint venture theoretically means that decisions are shared with its Chinese partner, the Shanghai Automotive Industrial Corporation, having the plant in China inevitably favors the local partner.
The fact that the ceremony was held today is an example. Shanghai General Motors will not actually begin regular production of the car until next April, but the Chinese partner insisted on rolling out the first Buick before the end of 1998, in order to keep to its original state-mandated schedule, so out it came.
Mr. Smith and other G.M. executives insist that they are happy with the arrangement and enjoy strong support from China's Government. They also maintain that they will find a market for an expensive American sedan among the Chinese elite, who have in the past relied largely on imports of 100,000 vehicles a year from Japan and Germany, most of them smuggled to avoid sky-high tariffs.
"We're confident that we'll meet our sales targets," Mr. Smith said in an interview. He also predicted that the Shanghai operation would start turning a modest profit once it passed a break-even mark of 40,000 to 50,000 cars, perhaps in the third or fourth year.
Many auto industry analysts argue that General Motors is making the Buick here, and cooperating with China's demands that it bring up-to-date auto technology for a luxury car, because it was the only way to get into China's car-assembly market. Demand may balloon one day in the distant future, but right now, the China market does not show a hunger for a high volume of high-end cars like Buicks.
Mr. Smith contended that General Motors is fully committed to making the Buick project a success, but conceded that timing was a factor. "I think it is extremely important to be in early," he said. "This is going to be a huge market."
The flexibility built into the new plant, Mr. Smith also said, means that it may be able to shift to making other vehicles in the future. But he denied reports that there are already plans to make a smaller car, like the Opel, if the Buick falters.
Hu Maoyuan, president of Shanghai General Motors, put it another way when asked whether a smaller car would emerge from the Shanghai plant. "Meeting market demand is our aim," Mr. Hu said. "Wherever we are able to meet consumer demands, we will."
Shanghai is not General Motors' first stop in China. In the early 1990's, bureaucrats in Beijing steered the company into a light- truck venture with a Chinese partner in the northeastern city of Shenyang. The trucks did not sell well and the venture was suspended.
Persuaded that passenger cars represented the future in China, where a fast-growing economy seemed to point toward budding consumer demand, General Motors bid aggressively for a partnership with Shanghai Automotive, which is generally seen as the best in a bunch of old-fashioned, state-owned auto makers.
However, after it was selected as a partner in 1995, beating out the Ford Motor Company and Toyota, G.M. had to endure two years of feasibility studies and other bureaucratic hurdles before it could sign a contract.
During that time, the sheen on China's car-market projections began to fade. Other foreign car ventures went south: Peugeot abandoned its plant in Guangzhou; Chrysler cut its production of a Beijing Jeep Cherokee by nearly two-thirds, to 8,972 this year from 25,127 in 1995, and Citroen struggled at its plant in Wuhan, sinking to a low of 3,797 cars in 1995 before rebounding.
The only foreign car venture that has thrived is Shanghai Volkswagen. Although the company will not discuss its profits, or the trouble it has in getting them back to Germany, Shanghai Volkswagen's Santana has won nearly 50 percent of China's passenger-car market, making 235,295 sedans in 1998.
General Motors executives say that much of Volkswagen's success has to do with its partner, Shanghai Automotive, which is now a G.M. partner, as well. As to whether Shanghai Automotive can simultaneously share partnerships with VW and General Motors without dividing its loyalty, Mr. Smith said he was not concerned.
Instead, he praised the can-do spirit and bottom-line orientation at Shanghai Automotive. The new plant in the Pudong section of Shanghai, he noted, was built in just 18 months, and is as modern as any in the world. Other car experts agreed.
"I think the plant is spectacular," said Michael Dunne, president of Automotive Resources Asia, a consultant on the Asian auto market. "They put a lot of money into it; they did not cut corners."
General Motors' plans to produce nearly 20,000 cars in 1999, Mr. Dunne said, will make it the most productive start-up car operation ever in China. At the outset, only 40 percent of each Buick will be made with Chinese parts, but that is projected to rise to 80 percent in a few years.
If making Buicks is not an insurmountable challenge, selling them here may be. A big chunk of Shanghai General Motors' intended market made up of bureaucrats in China's Government and in its large state-owned industry. Yet last year, Beijing issued a directive barring officials below the rank of minister from buying cars with engines exceeding 2.5 liters in cylinder volume. The Buick uses a 2.98-liter engine, and G.M. executives say they are hoping that Government support will mean an exception.
Worse perhaps for the American producer, China is mulling over plans to reduce vast state spending on cars, in favor of compensating officials with a monthly subsidy in place of the existing practice of simply buying cars for the officials. Large or small, a subsidy would not likely be spent on luxury automobiles.
"I'm sure there will be difficulties along the road," Mr. Smith said. "But we want to be here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bringing American auto technology to China, even in partnership with a local producer, requires training. Workers in Shanghai examine a car's undercarriage. (Greg Girard/Contact Press Images, for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Placing a Bet"
General Motors is making the single biggest American investment in China, with plans to sell 100,000 full-size Buick sedans a year for about $40,000 each. But the largest and fastest-growing market segment today is for small, considerably cheaper cars. The graph shows Chinese vehicle sales (Assembled in China) of different types of cars from 1993-1998. (Source: Automotive Resources Asia) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (78%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (94%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (96%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (78%); EAST CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); 

PERSON: JOHN F SMITH JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



399 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Travel Executives Worry Air War Will Hurt Business

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Even if the American and British bombing of Iraq ends in the next few days, as the Clinton Administration has suggested, the uncertainty it has created could linger and hurt airlines, hotels and others in the travel industry at the height of the holidays.
Travel industry spokesmen said yesterday that a terrorist reprisal against a target in the West or an Iraqi strike against Israel would presumably halt much international travel, as it did shortly before, during and after the Persian Gulf war of 1990-91.
In the only response by an air carrier to the current fighting, United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation, canceled its daily round-trip flight between London and New Delhi yesterday. It tentatively planned to resume the flight today. 
 "So far this is only a skirmish, so not many people are likely to postpone their flights," said Michael Boult, an international air travel specialist for Rosenbluth International, a travel-management company. "But it depends on the degree of escalation. If it becomes a full-scale conflict like the gulf war, or at the first sniff of terrorist activity, lots of people will cancel or postpone."
Officials at United States airlines and airports, while reluctant to discuss the subject publicly, acknowledge that they began tightening security as of Wednesday evening, when the missile attacks began. But security has already been at a high level since at least late August, they added, when the United States attacked targets in the Sudan and Afghanistan with cruise missiles.
Yesterday, for example, dogs trained to detect explosives patrolled John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York and O'Hare Airport outside Chicago, the nation's busiest. The police at Kennedy towed illegally parked cars, instead of just ticketing them.
For all the heightened concern about security, though, travel agents said they had not received any cancellations. "I think people are so used to hearing about the possibility of terrorism, especially from Iraq, they no longer panic," said Richard B. Earls, president of the Summit Travel Group in Winston-Salem, N.C. But if the conflict escalates, he said, "I think you'll see people who had planned to visit overseas turning to domestic destinations and the Caribbean."
Many agents warned clients to get to the airport early and to carry identification. "We assume they already know that, but it's still important to remind them," said Michelle Dahan, general manager of leisure travel for Rosenbluth International. The National Business Travel Association reiterated a warning that members headed for destinations considered dangerous or chancy should travel in twos, vary their routines and notify the local embassy or consulate of their presence.
Rob Deliberto, an official with Carlson Wagonlit Travel, who does not anticipate a prolonged war, also does not expect a significant drop in international air travel. "But during the gulf war," he said, "as tensions escalated, international travel dropped to almost nothing."
Passengers on United States airlines fell 44 percent on trans-Atlantic routes in 1991, according to the Air Transport Association, and 20 percent on Pacific routes.
While airlines bore the brunt of the gulf war, the broader domestic travel industry also suffered. Losses during that period were exacerbated by domestic recession. In 1991, hotel occupancy in this country fell to just over 62 percent, compared with a 65 percent break-even figure of that time, and Coopers & Lybrand, now PricewaterhouseCoopers, estimated that 60 percent of the hotels in 1991 lost an average of more than $1,000 a room.
Many cities were hurt by a downturn in the convention business, as corporate America and professional associations tightened spending. Hawaii lost about 850,000 tourists from 1991 through 1993. Most were Japanese who opted for Australia or for staying home, rather than risk the possibility of a terrorist incident on the way to or in the United States.
Many Americans also stayed home as gasoline prices soared -- from an average $1.075 a gallon on Aug. 1, 1990, the day before Iraqi troops invaded Kuwait, to $1.387 by Dec. 4, according to the AAA. In the first nine months of 1991, 2,300 travel agencies closed or went bankrupt, compared with 1,600 for all of 1990. And the war hurt the cruise industry, which had to advertise heavily and cut prices to attract passengers. Cruise lines were also forced to abort sailings to the Mediterranean.
But no industry is more fearful of even a partial re-enactment of the gulf war than the airline industry, which lost $12.8 billion from 1990 through 1993.
Carriers eliminated flights and flew smaller planes; 40,000 airline employees were laid off, and several airlines petitioned for bankruptcy.
Two of the nation's oldest airlines, Eastern and Pan American -- financially weak before the war -- were fatally damaged by a loss of business. Pan Am sold most of its international routes in a desperate but ultimately futile effort to stay afloat; Eastern soon went out of business.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SUDAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (56%); 

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); INDIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SUDAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRLINES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); DOGS (65%); PARKING OFFENSES (63%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998



400 of 661 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: ON TWO FRONTS: RUSSIA;
Moscow Orders U.S. Envoy Home to Protest Air Strikes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 17

 BODY:
Russia recalled its ambassador to Washington today for consultations as a protest for United States' air strikes against Iraq, Moscow's angriest riposte against American policy since the end of the cold war.
The Kremlin's decision to withdraw Ambassador Yuli Vorontsov came as politicians across Russian's political spectrum, usually divided over how to solve the country's own tangled problems, united today and denounced the American attacks. 
 Almost immediately, the Communist-led Parliament registered its displeasure by shelving plans to ratify the Start-2 treaty that would slash strategic nuclear arms. Winning approval of the treaty from Russia has been an important objective of the United States and one that had seemed tantalizingly close. A vote on the treaty, which was widely expected to be approved,had been scheduled for Dec. 25.
Russia's protest stems, in part, from its longstanding ties to Iraq. Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov has maintained close relations with Baghdad since before the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Before the 1991 Persian Gulf war, Mr. Primakov engaged in a hectic round of shuttle diplomacy as he sought unsuccessfully to try to head off the allies attack on Saddam Hussein's forces.
Iraq also owes Moscow billions of dollars -- loans that stand no chance of being repaid unless the war clouds in the Middle East clear and economic sanctions against Iraq are lifted.
But the unusually acerbic tone of Russia's reaction today has more to do with Russia's attitude toward America. Much of Russia's political elite, as well as many ordinary Russians, believe that Washington has begun to throw its weight around since the end of the cold war.
"Russia's opinion was ignored," said Gen. Igor Sergeyev, the Russian Minister of Defense. Gen. Sergeyev conveyed his displeasure by skipping a meeting with NATO officials to fly back to Moscow.
Moscow's distress has been compounded by Russia's unhappiness over the expansion of NATO. And it comes on the heels of other disputes over the Middle East. American officials have complained that Russia has not stopped sharing its missile technology with Iran, as it had promised.
Russia's decision to withdraw Ambassador Vorontsov was conveyed to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright by the deputy chief of the Russian Embassy in Washington during a meeting on the Iraq crisis.
"Secretary Albright was informed that Russia is calling its ambassador for consultation," disclosed a State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin. "That is unfortunate. But we continue to work with Russia on a variety of levels to manage our differences on this use of force."
There are limits, of course, on how far Russia can go in voicing its objections. Russia is too broke to start a military buildup. It also needs aid from Western organizations like the International Monetary Fund, where America has substantial influence.
Putting off approval of the Start-2 treaty would hurt Russia as well as Washington. The Russian military favors the treaty because the aging Russian missile force is shrinking anyway and the accord puts limits on United States military capabilities.
As for Iraq, American officials argued that Moscow has had plenty of chances to persuade Saddam Hussein to allow international inspections but had fallen short.
But those arguments fell on deaf ears here. President Boris N. Yeltsin denounced the attacks as a violation of the United Nation Charter.
President Clinton tried to call President Yeltsin to discuss the situation but was unable to reach him, American officials said.
Vice President Al Gore spoke by telephone to Mr. Primakov, who asked that the bombing be stopped. The unusual solidarity among Russia's otherwise warring politicians led the newspaper Izvestia to write: "It has been a long time since any issue, foreign or domestic, has led to such a complete consensus."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

COMPANY: ELITE AS (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (58%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLD WAR (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1998

 
