

201 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: For Hoyas, a Fight in China Forged Team Unity

BYLINE: By ADAM HIMMELSBACH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the night of Aug. 18, hours after the Georgetown men's basketball team was involved in a disturbing brawl with a Chinese professional team, many of the Hoyas gathered in the hotel room of a team manager at the St. Regis Beijing.
The players were still stunned by what had occurred. They watched video of the fight that fans had already uploaded to YouTube. They tried to piece together the chain of events. And, most of all, they made sure everyone was fine.
''We decided right then, from that point on, we would have each other's backs,'' the senior guard Jason Clark said.
''That was the point where this team really started to come together.'' 
Although the Hoyas do not want to be defined by a fight, they said the experience was instructive and ultimately strengthened their bond. This relatively anonymous group has since forged its identity as one of the nation's most cohesive units.
Georgetown was picked to finish 10th in the Big East in a preseason poll of the conference's coaches, and none of the Hoyas received first-team, second-team or even honorable-mention recognition. But Georgetown has flicked away the low expectations of others, storming to a 22-7 record, a No. 13 ranking and a first-day bye at the Big East tournament, which begins Tuesday.
''We have a selfless group, and as a coach, you hope for that,'' Coach John Thompson III said. ''They know because of our limitations that for us to be good, everyone has to be good. We're all dependent on each other, and that was clear last summer.''
The Hoyas went on an 11-day good-will tour of China in August to soak up the unique cultural experience, to play basketball and to promote their university on an international stage. They were part of a 200-person contingent that included the university's president, John J. DeGioia, as well as alumni, staff members and their families.
A portion of the Hoyas' trip coincided with a four-day visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who was in China to address the nation's economic relations with the United States. On Aug. 17, Biden spoke to the Georgetown players and then watched them defeat the Shanxi Zhongyu Brave Dragons in an exhibition.
The next night, the Hoyas faced the Bayi Rockets, a Chinese Basketball Association team whose players are drawn from the People's Liberation Army.
''It was a very physical game,'' the sophomore guard Markel Starks said. ''And then it got out of hand.''
With the score 64-64 and less than 10 minutes remaining, a shoving match escalated into a benches-clearing brawl. Punches and courtside chairs were thrown, and fans hurled full plastic water bottles at the Georgetown players as they were ushered off the court by university personnel.
''It was chaos everywhere,'' Clark said.
Georgetown's sports information director, Michael Carey, said that when the players entered the bowels of the arena, the lights there had been turned off.
They quickly gathered in the team meeting room -- the same room in which Biden had addressed them one day earlier -- and they were shaken.
Thompson told the players to grab whatever belongings they could and to leave everything else behind. The team was not offered a police escort to its bus.
''Then we all just looked at each other like, 'What just happened?' '' the sophomore forward Nate Lubick said.
Carey said that Kurt M. Campbell, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, made it clear to Georgetown's delegation that it should reach out to the Rockets before leaving Beijing.
The next day, Thompson, Clark and forward Hollis Thompson were among a group that met with the Rockets' coach, Adi Jiang, and two of his players in a private room at Beijing Capital Airport. The two sides exchanged gifts and put the incident from the previous day behind them.
''It was amazing how we all came together as a team after the whole experience,'' the freshman forward Otto Porter said. ''Everybody started caring a lot more.''
Last season, Georgetown was a No. 6 seed in the N.C.A.A. tournament. It lost its opening game to No. 11 Virginia Commonwealth, which marched on to the Final Four.
The Hoyas lost their two best players from that team -- the former McDonald's all-Americans Chris Wright and Austin Freeman -- and they entered this season without a legitimate star or much of an identity.
Their resurgence this season has coincided with their strengthened bond as well as the startling improvement of Henry Sims, the 6-foot-10 senior center whose position carries the burden of great expectations at Georgetown.
The Hoyas' list of big men who went on to the N.B.A. is long -- Patrick Ewing, Dikembe Mutombo, Alonzo Mourning, Roy Hibbert and Greg Monroe, to name a few. But for three years, Sims did little to put his name among the others. Last season, he averaged 3.6 points and 3.2 rebounds a game.
After the Hoyas' N.C.A.A. tournament loss, Sims was moved by the finality of the moment. He realized he had just one more year, one more chance, to leave his mark. He said he completed a basketball workout each day in the off-season, even during a family vacation in rural South Carolina, when he would walk two miles to an outdoor court each day and have his young cousin chase rebounds for him.
This season, Sims's transformation has lifted the Hoyas. He is averaging 11.1 points, 5.6 rebounds and a team-high 3.4 assists, and much of the offense runs through him.
''If he doesn't take that big leap this year as a player, they're not this good as a team,'' said Tim Welsh, an analyst for SNY. ''I never realized he was that good as a passer, and they really maximize his ability.''
Sims also leads the Hoyas in blocks, anchoring a stout defense that makes up for a lack of sizzle on offense. Georgetown is third in the Big East in field-goal percentage defense (38.7 percent) and rebounding margin (5.6)
''When we do something,'' Sims said, ''we do it together.''
That lesson was also learned in China, and for the better part of 11 days, it had nothing to do with a fight.
There was the trip to the Great Wall, when the players assisted the freshman forward Tyler Adams, who was limping around in a walking boot after injuring his ankle. There was the visit to Tiananmen Square, when the Hoyas posed for one picture after another with locals. And there was the impromptu coaching clinic Thompson started with a Chinese youth team that was finishing a workout on a court the Hoyas were going to practice on.
It became clear to Thompson on that trip that his team shared an uncommon bond, a bond that could help the Hoyas continue this season deep into March.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Georgetown Hoyas were involved in a brawl with the Bayi Rockets of the Chinese Basketball Association while on a good-will tour last August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY, VIA REUTERS) (B10)
 Jason Clark, left, and Henry Sims have helped lead Georgetown (22-7) to a first-round bye in the Big East tournament. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (99%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



202 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
EGYPTIAN LAWMAKER FORCED
TO RESIGN OVER NOSE JOB
The first political scandal of Egypt's fledgling electoral democracy erupted after an Islamist lawmaker was expelled from his ultraconservative party, accused of fabricating a story that he had been viciously beaten by masked gunmen. Doctors said the bandages on his face covered up plastic surgery on his nose. Page A4
FORMER LEADER TRIED 
Iceland opened a criminal trial against its former prime minister, Geir H. Haarde, becoming the first country to prosecute one of its leaders over the financial crisis of 2008. Page A6
POLICE OFFICERS KILLED IN IRAQ
At least 20 police officers were killed in western Iraq by dozens of gunmen masquerading as black-clad SWAT teams out to make a high-level arrest, local security officials said. The attack came about 10 days after suicide bombers and gunmen killed dozens of people at police checkpoints across Baghdad and elsewhere in Iraq. Page A8
CHURCH ANGEL IN DEMAND
An artist's modern-day rendering of an angel as a cathedral statue, with cellphone included, has been met with overwhelming popularity in the Netherlands, as people of all ages -- some in need of help, others just because they are lonely -- call numbers associated with the sculpture. Page A8
CONVICTION UNDER REVIEW
President Dmitri A. Medvedev ordered Russia's prosecutor general to verify the legality of the conviction of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former billionaire whose imprisonment has been widely condemned as politically motivated. Page A10
National
VEGAS GUN RANGE OFFERS
NEW WAY TO LET LOOSE
Machine Guns Vegas -- an upscale indoor shooting range complete with skimpily dressed gun-toting hostesses -- opened a half-mile from the Strip with an armory of weapons and a promise to fulfill the desires of anyone wanting to fire off an Uzi or a vintage Thompson submachine gun. Page A11
KILLING WITHOUT A TRIAL
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. asserted that it is lawful for the government to kill American citizens if officials deem them to be operational leaders of Al Qaeda who are planning attacks on the United States, if capturing them alive is not feasible. Page A16
New York
EMOTIONS AT COLUMBIA
OVER SPEAKER AT BARNARD
President Obama's decision to give the commencement speech at Barnard, and not Columbia, his alma mater across the street, has unleashed online exchanges as nasty as any hair-pulling, eye-gouging schoolyard brawl. Page A20
Obituaries
STEVE BRIDGES, 48
He was an impressionist who used prosthetics and wigs in mimicking presidents, particularly George W. Bush, who twice joined him onstage in Washington. Page B14
RONNIE MONTROSE, 64
An influential guitarist whose band was a mainstay of hard rock in the 1970s and the launching pad for the singer Sammy Hagar. Page B14
Business
IN FLOOD OF TABLET DEVICES,
SOME SEE DESKTOP DECLINE
A growing number of analysts and veteran technology industry executives contend that the torrid growth rates of the iPad, combined with tablet competition from the likes of Amazon.com and Microsoft, make a changing of the guard with traditional personal computers a question of when, not if. Page B1
COSTS OF GOING ELECTRONIC
Industry experts have said that electronic health records could generate huge savings -- as much as $80 billion a year, according to a RAND Corporation estimate. But a published study concludes that computerized patient records are unlikely to cut health care costs and may actually encourage physicians to order expensive tests more often. Page B1
Sports
HOYA SAYS TEAM UNITY
STARTED WITH A FIGHT
Players on Georgetown's men's basketball team pointed to an unfortunate brawl on a goodwill tour of China last summer for their strengthened bond and resurgence this season. Page B10
Arts
OLD COLLABORATORS CELEBRATE
YEARS OF CREATIVE TENSION
The conductor Lorin Maazel and the Vienna Philharmonic, though both have complex and sometimes prickly personalities, have through 50 years of collaboration maintained a warm professional friendship. That was made clear in the Playbill for their three Carnegie Hall concerts over the weekend, James Oestreich writes. Page C1
Science
AMATEURS ARE NEW FEAR
IN CREATING MUTANT VIRUS
While terrorists and cults have long been a concern in biosecurity circles, some scientists also fear that publishing the results of two experiments may allow curious amateurs to recreate a mutated form of the bird flu virus. Page D1
TWINS EASILY MISCLASSIFIED
A British study suggests that many parents of twins are misinformed as to whether their babies are fraternal or identical because doctors themselves are confused. Page D6
Op-Ed
Joe Nocera PAGE A23
Frank Bruni PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); FIREARMS (86%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DEATHS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (72%); SCULPTURE (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); POP & ROCK (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); ICELAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



203 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Faces Inquiry Of Subsidiary For Bribery

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
As News Corporation seeks to contain a widening investigation into illegal information gathering at its British publishing unit, the company may face fresh allegations at another problematic subsidiary.
News Outdoor Russia, a Moscow-based billboard company that News Corporation sold to a Kremlin-controlled bank in July, is the subject of an F.B.I.inquiry into whether the company bribed local officials to approve favorable sign placements, The Wall Street Journal reported Monday.
The investigation comes as News Corporation faces allegations of widespread bribery involving ''a network of corrupted officials'' at its British tabloid The Sun. The alleged bribery by reporters in Britain and accusations that News Outdoor Russia paid municipal officials could both trigger the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a law that prohibits overseas arms of United States companies from paying bribes. 
In its investigation, the F.B.I. will seek to determine whether bribery at News Corporation's British publishing arm, News International, and at its Russian outdoor advertising subsidiary were isolated events or indicative of a broader corrupt corporate culture. If it is the latter, News Corporation could face hundreds of millions of dollars in fines and legal fees and criminal charges, according to people close to the company who were not authorized to comment on the record about a continuing investigation.
''The challenge for companies subject to the F.C.P.A. is that acts at one subsidiary can pose risks to the overall enterprise, depending on how many people are involved and how large the scale,'' said William P. Barry, a Washington lawyer who specializes in white-collar criminal defense with an emphasis on the corrupt practices act.
In July, News Corporation retained Mark Mendelsohn, a Washington lawyer who previously worked in the Justice Department's fraud division prosecuting corporations and executives accused of violating the act.
A spokeswoman for News Corporation declined to comment.
Russian officials have historically been uncooperative with foreign officials investigating corruption, often seen as a price for doing business in Russia. Still, some cases have progressed.
In 2010, the Justice Department revealed documents that showed that the German automaker Daimler, which had been merged with Chrysler, had bribed Russian officials to secure a deal to sell cars for its police fleet and official motorcades. The company settled the charges in Federal District Court in Washington and paid $185 million.
News Corporation acquired News Outdoor Russia from a group of Russian businessmen in 2000.Rupert Murdoch, chairman and chief executive of News Corporation, said the company provided a foothold in the booming economy in Russia, where outdoor advertising is splattered on buildings, billboards and bus stops.
The Moscow-based company also controls outdoor signage in the Czech Republic, Ukraine and Romania, but Russia represents by far the largest market, with the company managing more than 40,000 outdoor ads in 90 cities, according to the News Outdoor Web site.
According to the Russian press, News Outdoor Russia often provided on a pro bono basis billboards for images of Vladimir V. Putin, who claimed victory in Russia's presidential elections over the weekend.
In 2002, Maxim Tkachev, managing director of News Outdoor, survived a shooting outside his Moscow office. Not long after that attack, a gunman in a black ski mask shot and killed Vladimir Kanevsky, a Russian billboard mogul and head of the outdoor advertising agency Big Board Group, a main competitor of News Outdoor.
According to the report in the Journal, which is a News Corporation publication, the F.B.I. is also investigating the killing of Mr. Kanevsky and looking into whether it was related to corruption at News Outdoor.
A spokeswoman for News Outdoor Russia told The Journal that the company was an ''investment project for News Corporation'' and that the New York-based media conglomerate ''didn't participate in the operations of the company.''
News Corporation sold its 79 percent stake in News Outdoor Russia for $270 million, well below its estimated value of $1.65 billion in 2008. In a Financial Times interview in 2008, Mr. Murdoch said he wanted to sell the unit before it was ''stolen.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); CZECH REPUBLIC (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



204 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: New Works for a Moody Continent

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
AMSTERDAM -- Even in plush economic times, a festival of new ballets is a risky undertaking. How to find studio hours for all the dancers and choreographers? How to get a collection of new pieces working technically -- lighting, decor, staging -- at the same time? And then the crucial issue: Will the works be any good?
Times are not plush, and the European arts world has withstood brutal budget cuts over the last 18 months. But a festival of new ballets -- no fewer than nine -- called ''Present/s'' is nonetheless what Ted Brandsen, the artistic director of the Dutch National Ballet, planned to celebrate the company's 50th-anniversary season. 
Mr. Brandsen contributed a ballet of his own and mustered an impressive list of participants, including Christopher Wheeldon, Alexei Ratmansky, Hans van Manen and David Dawson, as well as Kryzsztof Pastor, Paul Lightfoot and Sol Leon, Ton Simons and a company dancer, Juanjo Arques. Only two (perhaps three) of these pieces are likely to live beyond Dutch National's brief season, which ended on Saturday, but that's probably a higher-than-average new-ballet success rate.
Of New York City Ballet's first Diamond Project, created in 1992 to generate new work, for instance, just one of the 11 ballets, William Forsythe's ''Herman Schmerman,'' is still performed. And one point that ''Present/s'' made clear was that Mr. Forsythe's style and aesthetic dominate a new generation of choreographers, much as Balanchine dominated a previous one.
The other overriding impression to emerge from ''Present/s'' (isn't deconstructive wordplay passe?), seen at the Het Musiekteater, was that ballet is in a generally bad mood. With the exception of Mr. Ratmansky's ''Souvenir d'un Lieu Cher,'' set to Tchaikovsky's composition for piano and violin of the same name, and Mr. Brandsen's perky ''Rai'' (''Rubies'' meets ''Glass Pieces''), no one seemed to be having any fun whatsoever.
Steps were wrenched from twisting, angling bodies in Mr. Arques's ''Consequence'' and Mr. Simons's ''Nature of Difference''; anguish, angst and hyperactive neurosis predominated in Mr. Lightfoot and Ms. Leon's ''Short Time Together''; dancers ducked, twisted and tangled antagonistically in Mr. Pastor's ''Chapters''; an apocalyptic world of smoke and fire permeated Mr. Dawson's ''Day 4.''
Perhaps it's a collective unconscious response to the shock of the European economic crisis. Even Mr. Wheeldon's ''Duet,'' set to the adagio assai from Ravel's ''Piano Concerto in G Major,'' with its romantic aesthetic, had a prevailing air of melancholy, as its titular couple (Anu Viheriaranta and Jozef Varga, both impeccable) swooped and draped, displaying long, beautiful lines and Mr. Wheeldon's characteristically fluid, inventive partnering.
All that languid prettiness alongside the almost painfully lovely Ravel piano concerto is slightly cloying, despite Mr. Wheeldon's skill; you can't help feeling that he could put this kind of thing together in his sleep. ''Duet'' was nonetheless the best piece on the first night. ''Present/s 1'' also featured Mr. van Manen's ''Variations for Two Couples,'' a puzzlingly incoherent work with occasionally striking moments that somehow segued from moody, modernist deliberation -- all flexed feet and carefully manipulated partnering accompanied by Britten's ''String Quartet in F major'' -- to stony-faced quasi-tango, set to Astor Piazzolla.
Things improved on Saturday in ''Present/s 2,'' with Mr. Ratmansky's ''Souvenir'' showing his brilliance at evoking narrative associations in subtle, ambiguous ways. The quartet begins with two identically dressed couples (Anna Tsygankova and Megan Zimny Gray in slim, greenish-black dresses, Mr. Varga and Artur Shesterikov in dark tights and shiny tops) moving in identical pas de deux. Then one pair stops and watches the other. Are they different incarnations of the same couple, remembering the past? Hoping for the future? Grieving for something or someone?
Mr. Ratmansky sustains the ambiguity throughout a flowing, endlessly inventive first section that occasionally recalls Jerome Robbins's ''In the Night'' in its presentation of different forms of love and relationships. In the brighter, faster second section, a delectably counterpointed, folk- dance-inflected duo for the men and a bravura finish for all four provide a surprising, but somehow inevitable conclusion. It might be showing us the couples' happier past. Or perhaps they are simply dancing.
''Souvenir'' and perhaps ''Duet'' seem likely to endure. And then there was the revelation of talent that you always hope for on a program like this. Mr. Dawson, a British choreographer who was at the Royal Ballet School with Mr. Wheeldon and danced with Mr. Forsythe's company, should be better known than he is. ''Day 4,'' a piece for seven dancers (all marvelous) set to a score by Greg Haines, shows his compositional skill and invention; the way he has absorbed Mr. Forsythe's influence and transformed it into something of his own.
The work is dark, both literally and metaphorically, but also exquisitely, wrenchingly, beautiful; a world of its own that draws you ineluctably within.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Present/s: Jozef Varga and Anu Viheriaranta in Christopher Wheeldon's ''Duet,'' at Het Musiekteater.
 Anna Tsygankova and Matthew Golding in Hans van Manen's ''Variations for Two Couples.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA STERLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); BUDGET CUTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



205 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Fed Study of Student Debt Outlines a Growing Burden

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and RON LIEBER

 BODY:
A report released Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York renews concerns about the growing debt load of college students and graduates.
The report suggests that as many as 27 percent of the 37 million borrowers have past-due balances of 30 days or more. 
''In sum, student loan debt is not just a concern for the young,'' the report said. ''Parents and the federal government shoulder a substantial part of the postsecondary education bill.''
The report, which was created by an analysis of Equifax credit reports, said the total balance of student loans was $870 billion. Of the 241 million with Equifax credit reports (there are 311 million people in the United States), 15 percent had student debt.
Forty percent of the people under 30 had outstanding student loans, and the average outstanding debt is $23,300. About 10 percent of borrowers owe more than $54,000 and 3 percent owe more than $100,000.
Noting that that existing figures on student loans are spotty and largely anecdotal, the Fed said its analysis was an attempt to provide more accurate accounting of delinquency data.
The Federal Reserve came up with the delinquency figure by excluding from their calculation borrowers who were still students or those who were granted permission to postpone payments because of financial hardship, graduate school or some other approved reason. Those borrowers represent about 47 percent of all borrowers. Fed economists suggest that they should not be considered when measuring the delinquency rate because they aren't making payments.
If they were included in the total, the percentage of borrowers who were 30 days late in making payments is 14 percent.
Lauren Asher, president of the Institute for College Access and Success, said the Fed study reinforced the need for borrowers to understand the distinction between federal loans and private loans and to know the available repayment options.
She noted that borrowers of federal loans were eligible for income-based repayment in which caps are placed on monthly payments to make them more affordable. In addition, she noted that borrowers of private student loans, which tend to have higher interest rates and fewer protections than federal loans, could now call the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to register complaints.
The Fed's numbers are similar to those published in a report a year ago by the Institute for Higher Education Policy. That study, based on a sampling of borrowers, found that 26 percent of borrowers who entered repayment in 2005 became delinquent but did not default. Fifteen percent of borrowers not only became delinquent but defaulted on their loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); EQUIFAX INC (57%)

TICKER: EFX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



206 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Knotty Challenges in Health Care Costs

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
The numbers, the projections, make health economists shudder.
The average per capita cost of health care in the United States is over $8,000 annually, double the amount spent in most European countries. The Congressional Budget Office projects that unless costs are brought under control in the next decade, the nation will be spending all of its tax revenues on health care, Social Security, interest on the debt and defense -- but mostly health care.
''If we solve our health care spending, practically all of our fiscal problems go away,'' said Victor Fuchs, emeritus professor of economics and health research and policy at Stanford University. And if we don't? ''Then almost anything else we do will not solve our fiscal problems.'' 
Dr. Fuchs, who has been called the dean of American health care economists, has spent five decades studying the health care problem. In his view, what is needed is the sort of major change that comes once in a decade, perhaps, or even just once in a generation.
But change, he believes, will not bubble up from within the health care system itself.
Here, edited and condensed for space, is a recent conversation with Dr. Fuchs about the nation's health care costs.
Why do we pay so much for health care?
We have higher administrative costs and a very complicated system for billing.
We have a 2-to-1 ratio of specialists to primary care physicians. In other countries the ratio is 50-50. Specialists spend more money and use more exotic interventions and also get paid more per hour of work.
We have more standby capacity. The United States has 4.2 times as many M.R.I. scanners as Canada. We have more malpractice claims.
We have less social support for the poor. Some of the additional spending comes about because we will take a poor sick person in the hospital, discharge them, and then they are back in the hospital for a month.
Drug prices are higher here. And physician incomes are higher.
Is there a large pent-up demand for a single-payer system?
No. Many Americans oppose a larger role for government. Many think their employer is paying for their health insurance, rather than it coming out of their wages.
Do we get anything for all the extra money we spend?
It is not without benefit that we can get a scan more quickly and more conveniently than people in other countries. It is not without benefit that we have specialists. It is not without benefit that we can choose our health plans.
So should we go after each of the contributing factors to our huge costs?
No. If we try to pick things off one by one, we will not accomplish much. Little stopgap measures will not do.
Then what is the big thing we should do to change the system?
The big thing for me is a dedicated value-added tax. It would provide universal coverage, a basic health care system for everyone. But the tax could be used only to pay for basic medical care, and basic medical care could be paid for only with the tax.
We want to subsidize the poor and the sick. The value-added tax is a function of income -- the poor and the sick would pay much less. People are free to buy more health insurance, but they would do it with after-tax dollars.
We would do away with Goldman Sachs executives getting a $40,000-a-year health care plan that is tax-free. Patients would be enrolled in accountable care organizations, like the Kaiser plans in California. The plan gets a risk-adjusted capitation payment for each person enrolled.
But wouldn't that get rid of fee-for-service and private practices? Would people accept that?
I am suggesting an enormous change. It is revolutionary. I don't say it isn't. But nothing else will help solve the problem of cost, access and quality.
Do you think this sort of change could really come to pass?
American history is studded with examples of things that were not politically feasible until they were. The emancipation of slaves. Creation of a strong, independent central bank. The replacement of the gold standard with fluctuating foreign-exchange rates. A trillion-dollar bailout of the financial industry.
Alexis de Tocqueville said that in the United States things move from the impossible to the inevitable without stopping at the probable. Because we are reaching a crisis and the only thing that will solve it is enormous change, we will have enormous change.
What would be the impetus? Wouldn't doctors and insurers and patients and politicians all be opposed to such a change?
Major changes in health care policy usually occur because of something outside of health policy -- large-scale civil unrest, a depression. We cannot expect that change will be generated within a system. There is not enough desire for change, as opposed to desire on the part of many stakeholders not to change.
Given a stimulus from the outside, everything could come tumbling down. One of the things that might trigger it is if China stops buying our bonds. We are financing a huge deficit in Medicare and Medicaid by selling bonds, mostly to China.
Could it be that the current system is the way we want to spend our money? You say most people are insured and most people are perfectly happy with their health care. Why do we care if we devote so much money to health care?
Approximately 50 percent of all the health care spending is now government spending. At the state and local level it is crowding out education, crowding out maintenance and repair of bridges and roads. At the federal level we have a huge deficit financed by borrowing from abroad.
If it were private money and private spending, I would have no objection.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DEAN: Victor Fuchs says change is unlikely from within the health care system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANFORD UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



207 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Have a Manifesto, And Travelers Should, Too

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS they say in the Navy when seas get rough, stand by for heavy rolls. If you think that airplanes are crowded now, if you worry about service to smaller and midsize cities, if you're alarmed by rising airfares, just wait.
''I don't think people realize what's coming,'' said Michael Boyd, the president of the airline forecaster Boyd Group International. ''Airlines are going to do O.K., but doing O.K. means they're going to be dropping a lot of places they now fly. Air travel is going to get accessed by fewer and fewer people,'' as airlines continue to reduce service to many markets to cut costs, he said. 
''This is a mixed metaphor, but it's going to be a sea change in air travel patterns,'' he said.
For over a year, most airlines have been reducing capacity in the domestic air travel system while concentrating on the major routes that provide the most revenue and feed their international routes. Still, they are clearly worried about the future, with fuel now accounting for about 35 percent of costs, and travelers starting to push back against steady increases in fares. Domestic airlines collectively earned $390 million last year, and $2.7 billion in 2010, after a decade in which they collectively lost $53 billion, according to Airlines for America, the industry trade group.
Last week, the trade group issued a detailed ''Case for a U.S. National Airline Policy,'' calling on the federal government to reduce aviation taxes and regulations, assist the industry in facing more aggressive global competition, curb fuel prices and volatility and spend more money on improving the national air traffic control system and other federal services.
The trade group, in its manifesto, said the airlines wanted ''a cohesive policy supporting the integral role of the U.S. airline industry in our economy,'' and argued that without help, ''domestic service levels will suffer,'' especially at smaller cities and rural communities.
With jet fuel at $3 a gallon, the situation would be just ''ugly,'' Mr. Boyd said. At $4 a gallon, it will be a full-blown crisis, he said. At the end of last week, the jet fuel price was $3.23 a gallon, about triple the average price a decade ago.
But as we assess the airlines' credible declarations for more favorable federal assistance, let me make a suggestion. If we travelers are going to have to accept higher fares, a reduced air travel network and less federal regulation as the price of commercial aviation viability, why don't we, as travel consumers, nail up our own manifesto to the airline industry's door?
Let me start with just two items of my own to begin this On the Road Column Airline Consumer Manifesto. Readers may wish to add their own suggestion for a follow-up.
Airlines must be more clear about their relationships with the regional airlines -- the companies they contract with to provide regional jet and some turbojet service for small and midsize airports, where some of the worst disruptions now occur. Far too often, passengers who have problems on connecting regional flights are frustrated in trying to deal with the major airline, which sold them the ticket but sometimes shrugs off its responsibilities to the contractor that flies the plane.
For major airlines except Southwest, regional airlines form the backbone of service between the big airline hubs and many midsize and small airports. Regional airline flights, for instance, account for about two-thirds of the departures at Chicago O'Hare and Washington-Dulles airports. But that business is struggling as major airlines re-evaluate domestic route networks to get the most revenue possible for every mile flown.
''Regional airlines are not airlines,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''They're leasing companies, and the kind of equipment they lease, especially 50-seat regional jets, is becoming less and less economically feasible.'' He added that ''the need for what they provide is going away'' as major airlines drop service on those the smaller jets.
Customer service complaints must be handled better. For one thing, I hear far too often from travelers who are angry about being threatened with arrest, as I noted in last week's column, by airline employees who are merely annoyed by the customer's insistence on getting better information. So I propose that any airline employee who threatens a customer with arrest for any reason be required to file a formal report of the incident for independent evaluation.
As I said, just a few thoughts. Yours are welcome.
Incidentally, I think we can get Ralph Nader, the founder of the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, to join our movement, given his growing vexation with air travel.
''I'm trying to get the Harvard Business School to do a case study'' on how companies can continue alienating customers with bad service and get away with it, he told me recently.
''I never saw anything remotely like this when I started fighting against the airlines back in the 1960s,'' he said. ''Those issues were totally trivial compared with what we're dealing with today. You can expose them and they just don't care.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JET FUEL (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); AIR FARES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



208 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Rediscovery Of Character

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The obituaries for James Q. Wilson, the eminent social scientist, generally emphasized his ''broken windows'' theory on how to reduce crime. That's natural. This strategy, which contributed to the recent reduction in crime rates, was his most tangible legacy.
But broken windows was only a small piece of what Wilson contributed, and he did not consider it the center of his work. The best way to understand the core Wilson is by borrowing the title of one of his essays: ''The Rediscovery of Character.'' 
When Wilson began looking at social policy, at the University of Redlands, the University of Chicago and Harvard, most people did not pay much attention to character. The Marxists looked at material forces. Darwinians at the time treated people as isolated products of competition. Policy makers of right and left thought about how to rearrange economic incentives. ''It is as if it were a mark of sophistication for us to shun the language of morality in discussing the problems of mankind,'' he once recalled.
Wilson worked within this tradition. But during the 1960s and '70s, he noticed that the nation's problems could not be understood by looking at incentives. Schools were expanding, but James Coleman found that the key to education success was the relationships at home and in the neighborhood. Income transfers to the poor increased, but poor neighborhoods did not improve; instead families disintegrated.
The economy boomed and factory jobs opened up, but crime rates skyrocketed. Every generation has an incentive to spend on itself, but none ran up huge deficits until the current one. Some sort of moral norms prevented them.
''At root,'' Wilson wrote in 1985 in The Public Interest, ''in almost every area of important concern, we are seeking to induce persons to act virtuously, whether as schoolchildren, applicants for public assistance, would-be lawbreakers or voters and public officials.''
When Wilson wrote about character and virtue, he didn't mean anything high flown or theocratic. It was just the basics, befitting a man who grew up in the middle-class suburbs of Los Angeles in the 1940s: Behave in a balanced way. Think about the long-term consequences of your actions. Cooperate. Be decent.
He did not believe that virtue was inculcated by prayer in schools. It was habituated by practicing good manners, by being dependable, punctual and responsible day by day.
Wilson lived in an individualistic age, but he emphasized that character was formed in groups. As he wrote in ''The Moral Sense,'' his 1993 masterpiece, ''Order exists because a system of beliefs and sentiments held by members of a society sets limits to what those members can do.''
Wilson set out to learn how groups created a good order, why that order sometimes frayed. He worked patiently and meticulously. The phrase ''we don't know'' rings throughout his writing. He was quick to admit ignorance in the face of knotty social problems.
When Wilson started talking about character, he was surprised that many in the academy regarded him as an archconservative. Why should character talk be conservative? But he accepted the label and responded gracefully. Some conservatives in the academy respond to their isolation by becoming combative and extreme. Wilson's rule was that conservatives should respond by being twice as productive and four times as nice.
In ''The Moral Sense,'' he brilliantly investigated the virtuous sentiments we are born with and how they are cultivated by habit. Wilson's broken windows theory was promoted in an essay with George Kelling called ''Character and Community.'' Wilson and Kelling didn't think of crime primarily as an individual choice. They saw it as something that emerged from the social psychology of a community. When neighborhoods feel disorganized and scary, crime increases.
Over the years, Wilson argued that American communities responded to the stresses of industrialization by fortifying self-control. Thanks to the temperance movement, for example, adult per-capita alcohol consumption fell from 7.1 gallons a year to 1.8 gallons a year between 1830 and 1850.
But America responded to the stresses of the information economy by reducing the communal buttresses to self-control, with unfortunate results. Occasionally, when there was sufficient evidence, Wilson recommended policies that might reverse this slide. In one 1998 Public Interest essay, he promoted ideas to strengthen the family: create publicly supported, privately operated group homes for teenage mothers; increase adoption; investigate ways to increase preschool programs; create a G.I. Bill for young mothers -- if you take care of your kid now, the government will pay for training later; create a religious United Way fund to increase the role of religion in American society.
Wilson was not a philosopher. He was a social scientist. He just understood that people are moral judgers and moral actors, and he reintegrated the vocabulary of character into discussions of everyday life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); CHILDREN (70%); RELIGION (61%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



209 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Digital Records May Not Cut Health Costs, Study Cautions

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Computerized patient records are unlikely to cut health care costs and may actually encourage doctors to order expensive tests more often, a study published on Monday concludes.
Industry experts have said that electronic health records could generate huge savings -- as much as $80 billion a year, according to a RAND Corporation estimate. The promise of cost savings has been a major justification for billions of dollars in federal spending to encourage doctors to embrace digital health records.
But research published Monday in the journal Health Affairs found that doctors using computers to track tests, like X-rays and magnetic resonance imaging, ordered far more tests than doctors relying on paper records. 
The use of costly image-taking tests has increased sharply in recent years. Many experts contend that electronic health records will help reduce unnecessary and duplicative tests by giving doctors more comprehensive and up-to-date information when making diagnoses.
The study showed, however, that doctors with computerized access to a patient's previous image results ordered tests on 18 percent of the visits, while those without the tracking technology ordered tests on 12.9 percent of visits. That is a 40 percent higher rate of image testing by doctors using electronic technology instead of paper records.
The gap, according to the study, was even greater -- a 70 percent higher rate -- for more advanced and expensive image tests, including M.R.I. tests and CT, or computerized tomography, scans.
''Our research raises real concerns about whether health information technology is going to be the answer to reducing costs,'' said Dr. Danny McCormick, the lead author of the study, who is an assistant professor at the Harvard Medical School and a member of the department of medicine at the Cambridge Health Alliance, a health system north of Boston.
Dr. McCormick had three co-authors: Dr. David H. Bor, chief of medicine at the Cambridge Health Alliance; and Dr. Stephanie Woolhandler and Dr. David U. Himmelstein, both professors at the City University of New York School of Public Health at Hunter College.
The research was based on a survey conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics, which collected data from more than 28,000 patient visits to more than 1,100 doctors in 2008.
Health policy experts who have championed the adoption of electronic health records were critical of the study. They noted that the data came from the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, which is intended mainly for another purpose -- to assess how medical care is practiced.
The study, they noted, included any kind of computer access to tracking images, no matter how old or isolated the function.
By contrast, modern electronic health records are meant to give doctors an integrated view of a patient's care, including medical history, treatments, medications and past tests. The 2008 data predates federal incentive payments for doctors and standards for the ''meaningful use'' of electronic health records that began last year.
The new study, they said, was also at odds with previous research. It is ''one of a small minority of studies'' that have doubted the value of health information technology, said Dr. David Blumenthal, a professor at the Harvard Medical School.
Dr. Blumenthal, the former national coordinator for health information technology in the Obama administration, was co-author of a study, published last year in Health Affairs, that surveyed articles in professional journals in recent years on electronic health records.
It found that 92 percent of those articles were ''positive over all'' about the prospect that technology would improve the efficiency and quality of care.
But Dr. McCormick said the previous research had been primarily statistical models of expected savings, like the RAND study, or research that looked at the use of electronic health records at a relatively small number of flagship health systems.
''We looked at not just a few cutting-edge institutions, but a nationally representative sample,'' Dr. McCormick said.
Dr. David J. Brailer, who was the national coordinator for health information technology in the administration of George W. Bush, said he was unconvinced by the study's conclusions because they were based on a correlation in the data and were not the result of a controlled test.
The study did not explore why physicians in computerized offices ordered more tests. Dr. McCormick speculated that digital technology might simply make ordering tests easier.
Dr. McCormick said he hoped the study would damp any inflated expectations about electronic records. But he added that the technology can improve the actual practice of medicine.
The Cambridge Health Alliance, where he practices, made the switch to electronic records in 2005.
''I'm a primary care doctor,'' Dr. McCormick said, ''and I would never go back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nurses at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. Using electronic records may increase the ordering of expensive imaging tests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH SRAKOCIC/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (95%); MEDICAL RECORDS (93%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (75%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



210 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: At Tribe's Door, A Hub of Beer And Heartache

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
WHITECLAY, Neb. -- Four rickety metal shacks that line the main road in this town of maybe 10 people sell an average of 13,000 cans of beer and malt liquor a day. The nearest sizable city is two hours north. But just 240 yards north -- across the state line in South Dakota -- is the sprawling Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, where alcohol has been banned since the 1970s.
Nearly all the alcohol bought in Whiteclay winds up on Pine Ridge or is consumed by its residents, tribal officials say. Pine Ridge is home to the Oglala Sioux Tribe and is one of the poorest places in the country, according to 2010 census data.
In February, the Oglala Sioux filed a federal lawsuit against the stores, and Anheuser-Busch and several other large American brewing companies, accusing them of encouraging the illegal purchase, possession, transport and consumption of alcohol on the reservation. Fetal alcohol syndrome, fatal drunken driving accidents and beer-fueled murders have cast a pall over Pine Ridge for decades. 
After the lawsuit was filed, Whiteclay's two-lane road, Highway 87, bustled with traffic driving to and from the beer stores. Dozens of people in various states of inebriation wandered along the road. Other men and women were passed out in front of abandoned buildings. A Hank Williams Jr. 45, ''I'd Rather Be Gone,'' was among the detritus along the road, as well as empty liquor bottles, a copy of ''Tabernacle Hymns No. 3,'' soiled clothing and a dead puppy.
Thomas M. White, the Omaha lawyer who filed the lawsuit on behalf of the tribe, describes Whiteclay as ''Sodom and Gomorrah.'' There is a lawless feeling in the town.
The Sheridan County sheriff's office, responsible for patrolling Whiteclay, is 19 miles away and has only five deputies. The department says it lacks the resources to properly patrol the town. The tribal police department, which has 38 officers -- down from 101 six years ago -- lacks jurisdiction.
John Yellow Bird Steele, the tribal president, said 90 percent of criminal cases in the court system and a similar number of reservation illnesses were caused by alcohol -- the vast majority of which, he said, was brought illegally from Whiteclay.
''We believe we can't get ahead, or function, without Whiteclay being addressed,'' he said.
On Pine Ridge, which is roughly the size of Connecticut but has a population of about only 45,000, the tribal police last year made 20,000 alcohol-related arrests. As an indication of the depth of the problem, Thomas Poor Bear, a tribal vice president who has been a leader in calling for change in Whiteclay, was arrested and jailed last month and charged with obstructing government function and having consumed alcohol. Mr. Poor Bear has denied the charges, saying he had taken cold medicine. But his lawyer, Tom Clifford, said that his client drank ''a couple of beers'' before his arrest.
The lawsuit seeks $500 million for costs incurred by the tribe for health care, law enforcement and social services related to chronic drinking, and to limit the amount of beer Whiteclay shops can sell. The legal argument is that the brewers and the stores know that they are selling alcohol to people who have no permissible place to consume it, and who are smuggling it onto the reservation for illegal use and resale. Any sign of alcohol -- the smell of beer, walking funny, slurred speech -- can get a person arrested in Pine Ridge.
The suit was filed in federal court because the federal authorities oversee Indian reservations and are the ultimate arbiters on alcohol issues. Anheuser-Busch and the other alcohol companies named in the lawsuit declined to comment or did not return calls and e-mails seeking comment.
Excessive alcohol consumption is the leading cause of preventable death among American Indians, and they are affected at about twice the rate of the national average, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The lawsuit comes amid a growing debate on Pine Ridge and other reservations about the wisdom of alcohol prohibition.
About a third of the nation's 310 reservations ban alcohol, but Pine Ridge is the only remaining dry reservation in South Dakota. It abuts the Rosebud Sioux Reservation, which allows alcohol.
Proponents of repealing prohibition say legalizing alcohol would enable tribes to enact tighter controls and to use new revenue for treatment programs.
''Not to disrespect our elders and ancestors, but we've gone through several generations,'' said Milton Bians, a tribal police captain, who was raised by grandparents because his parents drank.
Though the reservation is dry, nearly every aspect of life there is affected by alcohol. Tribal leaders say four in five families on the reservation have someone with a drinking problem, and one in four babies are born with fetal alcohol syndrome or fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. Rates of diabetes, teenage suicide, crime and unemployment are in some cases exponentially higher than national averages, according to federal and tribal data and officials.
The beer store owners declined to comment, citing the lawsuit. Whiteclay's other businesses, which include two groceries and an auto body shop, say they feel little responsibility.
Victor Clarke, who has lived in Whiteclay 19 years and owns Arrowhead Foods, a grocery that does not sell alcohol, said there would be dozens of places within an hour's drive where alcohol could be bought if the town's annual sale of 4.9 million cans of beer and malt liquor was halted.
He said the widespread fear that Whiteclay's troublesome customers would then move elsewhere virtually guarantees the town's survival.
''People don't want Whiteclay to go away,'' he said. ''The state of Nebraska doesn't want Whiteclay to go away because it allows problems to be isolated in this one little place. You hear people in the towns around here, saying, 'We don't want these guys in our town.' ''
Each side blames the other for the drunken assaults, robberies and murders that are part of Whiteclay's ebb and flow.
''A lot of times, there's a problem that boils up in South Dakota and ends up in Whiteclay,'' said Sheriff Terry Robbins of Sheridan County. About the prospect of more patrols, he said, ''With the economy the way it is, I don't see us doing anything that we're not trying now.'' Deputies patrol the town two to three times a day.
The Arrowhead Inn, one of Whiteclay's four beer stores, has a sign posted saying, ''Cash your income tax check here.'' The store takes a 3 percent commission. Pine Ridge has no banks, so the liquor stores serve that purpose.
The shop sells a 30-pack of Budweiser cans for $27.25 -- a price higher than in New York City, and nearly twice as high as elsewhere in the country. But the drink of choice in Whiteclay is Hurricane High Gravity Lager, a malt liquor brewed by Anheuser-Busch. A 16-ounce can costs $1.50 at the Arrowhead Inn. Its alcohol content is 8.1 percent; regular beer has an alcohol content of about 5 percent.
Daryl Walking, 46, a former Marine who said he has been drinking since he was a boy, said he spends three nights a week in jail for public intoxication and the other four in the cold.
''I'll curl up against the wall and I'll wake up half frozen, but I'll still be O.K.,'' he said.
His friend James Whiteface, 43, was recently released from the tribal jail. It was his birthday, and he showed the date of birth on his arrest form to prove it.
''I came here right after I got out,'' he said, referring to Whiteclay. ''This is where everybody meets.'' he said. Mr. Whiteface, a slight man, said he could drink six 16-ounce cans of Hurricane in one sitting.
A Nebraska State Patrol officer drove past. Someone shouted an obscenity. The trooper slammed on the brakes and shouted obscenities back, threatening to call in the sheriff to ''clear this town.''
An hour later, there was no sheriff, and the crowds of drinkers had grown thicker.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The streets of Whiteclay, Neb., just across the state border from the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, often include groups of people in various states of inebriation.
 The reservation is home to the Oglala Sioux Tribe, which has filed a suit against the stores in Whiteclay that sell beer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ARRESTS (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (77%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); JURISDICTION (74%); MURDER (73%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); SHERIFFS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); CENSUS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (68%); FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME (53%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



211 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Australia's Changing View of the Dingo

BYLINE: By JAMES GORMAN and CHRISTINE KENNEALLY

 BODY:
Thirty-two years ago, 9-week old Azaria Chamberlain disappeared from a campsite in the Australian outback, and her mother's claim that a dingo took the child caused a storm of public outrage and disbelief.
The saga reached far beyond Australia when it inspired ''Cry in the Dark,'' a 1988 movie starring Meryl Streep. And as popular culture transmuted tragedy into morbid comedy, a misquote from the movie, ''A dingo ate my baby!,'' caught on, popping up in ''Seinfeld,'' ''The Simpsons'' and other shows.
The reason the whole story became so well known, of course, was that in reality it has remained unclear whether the dingo did it. And over the ensuing decades, the human drama and the figure of the dingo, Australia's enigmatic wild dog, have become entangled. Like the wolf in America, the dingo is a symbol that may mean one thing to hunters or sheep ranchers and another to scientists and nature lovers. 
Now the Chamberlain case, and dingoes themselves, are back in the spotlight. On Feb. 24, testimony ended in the fourth coroner's inquest on Azaria's death, and the office of the Northern Territory coroner, which held the inquest, said a ruling would be handed down within the next two months. This time, the Chamberlain family hopes that the coroner will conclude, once and for all, that a dingo killed Azaria.
Lindy Chamberlain, Azaria's mother, has struggled for years to get such a ruling. She was originally convicted of killing her child and sent to prison. She was released after three years and acquitted only after Azaria's jacket was found near a dingo den.
When Azaria disappeared, dingoes were thought to be shy of people, and with no known attacks on humans, it was hard to believe one had been aggressive enough to come into a campground and take a baby from a tent.
But in the past decade or so, there have been a number of reported attacks, some disputed, and one unarguable fatality. Adrian Peace, an honorary associate professor of anthropology at the University of Queensland, who has studied the change in attitude toward dingoes, said, ''The demonization of Mrs. Chamberlain has been replaced by the demonization of the dingo.''
Much of the change, Dr. Peace says, comes from public encounters with dingoes on Fraser Island, a nature reserve visited by hundreds of thousands of tourists yearly. Starting in the '90s, minor human-dingo incidents started worrying managers of the reserve, and in 2001 two dingoes killed a 9-year-old boy, Clinton Gage, and injured his brother. ''That was really the game-changer,'' Dr. Peace said. There were calls for the extermination of dingoes on the island, which did not happen, but rangers kill any dingoes believed to pose a danger.
Dingoes are generally classified as a subspecies of wolf, Canis lupus dingo, although in the past they have been classified as a subspecies of dog and as a separate species. Physically, they resemble a generic, medium-size dog, about 40 pounds, usually tan-colored, with pricked ears and a bushy tail.
They do not have some of the physical signs of domestication found in many dog breeds, like barking as adults. They breed once a year, like wolves, and when undisturbed they have a stable pack structure topped by one male-female pair, the only ones in the pack that reproduce.
Bradley Smith, a research associate in public health at Flinders University in Adelaide who has studied dingoes, said by e-mail that experimental tests put dingoes closer to wolves in the kind of intelligence they display. ''Both dingoes and wolves, being highly effective predators, are great at problem solving, working well in groups, and independent problem solving,'' he said.
But they also understand humans in a way that wolves do not. They get it when a person points at something, while wolves are clueless or supremely uninterested. Dingoes are not as good as dogs, however, at following a human's gaze.
Dingoes, Dr. Smith wrote, ''seem to be a prime example of one of the first types of 'dogs'. Not domestic dogs as we know them now, but some form of early dog that made it easier for the human-canid relationship to develop. You could almost say dingoes are frozen in time -- as they have made a very good home in Australia and have been isolated for many thousands of years.''
Dingoes came to Australia 3,500 to 5,000 years ago, probably with Asian seafarers, and already at least partly domesticated. At the time, people had been on Australia for almost 50,000 years, without dogs. The dingo quickly became an essential part of Aboriginal life and stories.
Deborah Rose, a professor at Macquarie University in Sydney who has done research with Aboriginal peoples and is the author of ''Dingo Makes Us Human,'' said the dingoes were a deep part of Aboriginal life. ''The dingoes had names, they had kinship classifications, which makes them so unlike all other animals in Australia,'' she said. ''They had a place at the campfire.'' Or even closer. The phrase ''three-dog night'' has been attributed to indigenous Australians as a way of describing how cold it was. However, it does not seem that Aborigines bred dingoes selectively.
Europeans, who brought sheep with them, did not share the Aboriginal affection for dingoes. They killed them as pests, and built a 3,300-mile fence to keep them out of southeastern Australia. The result is a confusion in even the legal status of dingoes. In some parts of Australia dingoes are pests, but in other parts they are protected. Their status can change with shifts in public opinion.
For instance, Ernest Healy, a founder of the National Dingo Preservation and Recovery Program, said that in the state of Victoria in 2009, the legal status of the dingo changed overnight. ''It had been legally categorized as an introduced pest species with pigs, feral dogs, foxes, and it is now endangered wildlife,'' he said.
In the United States something similar happens with wolves. They may be endangered one day and hunted the next. Wisconsin, for instance, is now considering a wolf hunting season.
Whatever the outcome of the coroner's inquest, and even as new science shows the ecological importance of dingoes, their populations are under some kind of pressure all over Australia.
Arian D. Wallach, at James Cook University in Queensland, said research has shown that dingoes, as top predators, are essential to preventing ''breakouts of opportunistic species'' like rabbits and feral cats, and should be left alone as much as possible.
But even protected populations are controlled, she said, by shooting, trapping, poisoning -- what Dr. Wallach calls ''persecution.'' Killing adults, she says, destroys pack structure, and means the young are more likely to kill livestock or cause other problems. They are, she said, like ''hooligans,'' whereas in a traditional pack, ''they'll have jobs to do; they won't be unemployed.''
The problem, Dr. Wallach said, is that from sheep country to Fraser Island to national parks, ''every single population of dingoes that I know of in Australia is persecuted.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about changing views of the dingo in Australia misstated the region of the country where a ruling is expected in the fourth inquest into the 1980 death of Azaria Chamberlain, whose mother claimed the infant was taken by a dingo. It is the Northern Territory -- not the Northwest Territories, a part of Canada.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROWING CONCERN: More dingo attacks have been reported in recent years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE FLETCHER/GETTY IMAGES)(D1)
 A NEW INQUIRY: Lindy Chamberlain and her daughter Azaria in 1980. Ms. Chamberlain said a dingo took Azaria during a camping trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWS LTD., VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CAMPING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (52%); SHEEP FARMING (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (79%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (78%) AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



212 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: In Rejection, F.D.A Wants More Data From Merck

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration on Monday rejected an application by Merck to combine a cholesterol-fighting pill with the generic version of Lipitor.
Merck had hoped the combination drug would offer an alternative to its troubled cholesterol drug Vytorin. 
In announcing the F.D.A decision, Merck said the agency had asked for additional data that could lead it to reconsider the drug combination.
The proposed new drug would combine Merck's drug Zetia, which lowers low-density lipoprotein (L.D.L., or ''bad'' cholesterol) with the generic version of Lipitor, the best-selling statin made by its rival, Pfizer, that lost its patent protection last year.
The news is a setback for Merck, which has had trouble with Vytorin, which combines Zetia with a different statin. Zetia, known chemically as ezetimibe, has been shown to lower bad cholesterol, but it is still not known whether it reduces heart disease. It is not known whether Vytorin, which was approved in 2004, is more effective than a statin alone.
''It's still out there dangling,'' said Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist at the Scripps Clinic and a professor of genomics at the Scripps Research Institute. He added that a trial investigating Vytorin's effectiveness was still under way. As a result, he said, the F.D.A. might be ''very reticent at this point to do it again.''
The agency's rejection came days after it issued new warnings about the increased risk of diabetes and memory loss from the use of statins, a widely prescribed class of drugs that reduce the amount of cholesterol produced in the liver. But Dr. Topol said he thought the F.D.A.'s rejection of the Merck pill most likely had more to do with concerns over the effectiveness of ezetimibe.
The Vytorin combination ''has been on shaky ground for years now,'' he said. ''So as an extension of that, are you going to approve another drug that has ezetimibe in it?''
Pam Eisele, a Merck spokeswoman, declined to make the F.D.A.'s nonapproval letter public, saying it is considered proprietary information. But she said the trial involving Vytorin was not mentioned in the F.D.A.'s letter and said data expected later this year might address the agency's comments. Three clinical trials of the pill are expected to be completed by July.
Sales of Vytorin have dropped steadily since 2007, when the drug brought in $2.5 billion, through 2011, when it generated about $1 billion, according to IMS Health, a health care services company in Danbury, Conn.
Pfizer sued to block Merck's proposed new drug last year, arguing that Merck had infringed on its Lipitor patent in filing its application for the new Zetia combination pill. Lipitor lost its patent protection in November, but Pfizer argued that the Merck drug would have used Lipitor's crystalline structure, which is still under patent.
Shares of Merck rose Monday by 1.37 percent, to $38.45.
Online Correction: March 5, 2012, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this article stated that sales of Vytorin had dropped steadily since 2007, when the drug brought in $247 million through 2011, when it generated about $105 million, according to IMS Health. Those figures are $2.5 billion and $1 billion, respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (95%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (93%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (89%); PATENTS (89%); PATENT LAW (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (88%); CLINICAL TRIALS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (70%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (69%); CARDIOLOGY (67%); HEART DISEASE (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); DIABETES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); GENOMICS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (51%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); CARE SERVICE CO LTD (60%); PFIZER INC (58%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); 2425 (JASDAQ) (60%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (60%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



213 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Camp David, Not Chicago, To Host G-8

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has boasted for months about playing host to the annual summit meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations this May in his hometown, Chicago. But on Monday, without explanation, the White House announced a shift to the secluded setting of Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland. 
Administration officials and associates, speaking only on condition of anonymity, said the president in recent weeks began discussing the idea of a more intimate setting for the world leaders -- both to ease their communications and to cut down on the security concerns and traffic tie-ups of a big-city meeting.
Also, several noted, attendees will include Vladimir V. Putin, a harsh critic of the United States, who will return as Russia's president after his election on Sunday.
''To facilitate a free-flowing discussion with our close G-8 partners, the president is inviting his fellow G-8 leaders to Camp David on May 18-19 for the G-8 Summit, which will address a broad range of economic, political and security issues,'' the brief White House statement said. Camp David is about an hour from Washington and open only to the president and people he invites.
Still, the change was unusual given the months-long lead time that such events require.
Administration officials and others said the prospect of the antiglobalization protests common to such gatherings was not a factor in the decision to change locations. After the G-8 gathering, the separate summit meeting of 28 NATO countries and Russia will go on as planned in Chicago, where leaders will discuss the future of the Atlantic alliance and specifically the coalition's exit from Afghanistan by 2014, and the size and makeup of any residual force there.
After it was determined in December 2010 that the United States would be the host of the G-8 and NATO summit meetings, the Obama administration announced within months that Chicago would be the site. The idea was less Mr. Obama's than the brainchild of Rahm Emanuel, then the White House chief of staff and now the mayor of Chicago.
In a statement, Mr. Emanuel emphasized that Chicago would still entertain the NATO heads of state. ''We wish President Obama and the other leaders well at the G-8 meeting at Camp David and look forward to hosting the NATO summit in Chicago,'' he said in the statement. ''Hosting the NATO summit (still) is a tremendous opportunity to showcase Chicago to the world and the world to Chicago.''
The G-8, which besides the United States consists of France, Germany, Italy, Britain, Japan, Canada and Russia, is increasingly seen as a less effective forum for deliberations on the global economy and security at a time when other nations -- among them China, India and Brazil -- have become global powers in their own right. That has given rise to an expanded Group of 20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (96%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



214 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Obama Presses Israel to Resist Strikes on Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Israel warning of a possible military strike on Iran's nuclear facilities, President Obama urged Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House on Monday to give diplomacy and economic sanctions a chance to work before resorting to military action.
The meeting, held in a charged atmosphere of election-year politics and a deepening confrontation with Tehran, was nevertheless ''friendly, straightforward, and serious,'' a White House official said. But it did not resolve basic differences between the two leaders over how to deal with the Iranian threat.
Mr. Netanyahu, the official said, reiterated that Israel had not made a decision on striking Iran, but he expressed deep skepticism that international pressure would persuade Iran's leaders to forsake the development of nuclear weapons. Mr. Netanyahu, according to the official, argued that the West should not reopen talks with Iran until it agreed to a verifiable suspension of its uranium enrichment activities -- a condition the White House says would doom talks before they began.
Speaking later on Monday to an influential pro-Israeli lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, Mr. Netanyahu said, ''We waited for diplomacy to work; we've waited for sanctions to work; none of us can afford to wait much longer.'' 
Mr. Obama, the official said, had maintained during their Oval Office meeting that the European Union's impending oil sanctions and the blacklisting of Iran's central bank could yet force Tehran back to the bargaining table -- not necessarily eliminating the nuclear threat but pushing back the timetable for the development of a weapon.
''We do believe there is still a window that allows for a diplomatic resolution to this issue,'' the president said as Mr. Netanyahu sat next to him before the start of their three hours of talks.
Both leaders agreed to try to tamp down the heated debate about Iran in their countries, officials said. Mr. Obama said the talk of war was driving up oil prices and undermining the effect of the sanctions on Iran. Mr. Netanyahu expressed frustration that statements by American officials about the negative effects of military action could send a message of weakness to Tehran.
Keeping a measured tone may be challenging, however. At the Aipac conference under way in Washington, speakers have delivered fervent calls for tougher action on Iran.
The Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, used his speech to lay out conditions under which he would introduce a bill in the Senate authorizing the use of military force against Iran. ''We have now reached the point where the current administration's policies, however well-intentioned, are simply not enough,'' the Kentucky Republican said. An Aipac official noted that this idea originated with Mr. McConnell, not with Aipac.
When Mr. Obama spoke to the group on Sunday, he articulated many themes that he and Mr. Netanyahu discussed the following day in their meeting. Despite their sometimes acrimonious relationship over the Middle East peace process, Israeli and American officials said the two leaders were in sync about the need to stop Iran from joining the ranks of nuclear states.
''My policy here is not going to be one of containment,'' Mr. Obama said before the meeting on Monday. ''My policy is prevention of Iran obtaining nuclear weapons.'' He added, ''When I say all options are on the table, I mean it.''
Mr. Netanyahu, noting that Iran's leaders vilify the United States as the ''Great Satan'' and Israel as the ''Little Satan,'' said there was no difference between the two countries. ''We are you, and you are us,'' he said. ''We are together.''
The prime minister thanked Mr. Obama for affirming, in his speech on Sunday, that ''when it comes to security, Israel has the right, the sovereign right to make its own decisions.''
An American official said the president was trying to avoid the perception that he was publicly pressuring the Israeli leader, though supporters of Israeli interpreted it as a signal that the United States recognized Israel's right to make its own decision on military action. Whether Israel could, in fact, carry out an effective strike on Iran without American support is unclear.
''My supreme responsibility as prime minister of Israel is to ensure that Israel remains the master of its fate,'' Mr. Netanyahu said.
Israeli officials said they were gratified by the president's explicit reference to military force as an option, his rejection of a containment policy and his reaffirmation of Israel's right to make decisions on its national security.
Still, beneath the tableau of shoulder-to-shoulder solidarity, the differences in their views were on display in their statements before the meeting. Mr. Netanyahu said nothing about diplomacy and the sanctions that Mr. Obama has advocated. And while the president repeated his vow that ''all options are on the table'' to halt Iran's pursuit of a weapon, he did not explicitly mention military force, as he had on Sunday.
Nor has the president embraced another crucial Israeli demand: that military action come before Iran acquires the capability to manufacture a bomb, as opposed to before it actually builds one. The two men did not close the gap on this issue, the official said, though he added that Mr. Netanyahu did not press Mr. Obama on it.
Mr. Netanyahu also did not push Mr. Obama to lay down sharper ''red lines,'' or conditions, that would prompt American action, as had been rumored last week, Israeli and American officials said.
Indeed, in his speech to Aipac, Mr. Netanyahu did not speak of preventing Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability, only a nuclear weapon itself. ''For the sake of our prosperity, for the sake of security, for the sake of our children, Iran must not be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons,'' he said.
As he has in previous speeches, Mr. Netanyahu dwelled on the threat posed by a nuclear-armed Iran. Tehran, he said, was the world's leading sponsor of terrorism, trying in the past year to murder the Saudi ambassador to Washington. Iran, he said, plotted to destroy the state of Israel ''every day, each day, relentlessly.''
Israeli officials seemed most gratified with Mr. Obama's explicit refusal to follow a policy of containing a nuclear-armed Iran. The president said Iran's acquisition of nuclear weapons would ignite an arms race in the Middle East, raise the specter of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorists, and allow Iran to behave with impunity in the region.
The mood in the Oval Office was somber and businesslike, as it usually is in meetings between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu. But the chemistry was better than it had been in previous meetings, officials said.
In their last Oval Office encounter, in May 2011, Mr. Netanyahu summarily rejected a proposal by the president to revive moribund peace negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians. With a stone-faced Mr. Obama sitting next to him, Mr. Netanyahu said Israel would not pursue a ''peace based on illusions.''
This time, the peace process barely figured in the discussions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the Oval Office on Monday in an atmosphere of election-year politics and a deepening confrontation with Tehran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



215 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Possible Last Hurrah For a Liberal Lion of Ohio

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a liberal icon who tried twice to win the Democratic nomination for president, was fighting for his political life in a mostly empty meeting hall in central Toledo.
Mr. Kucinich, who started in politics more than 40 years ago in Cleveland, has fallen victim to redistricting, a redrawing of the electoral map that sliced two Congressional seats out of Ohio -- one of them his.
Toledo is new territory for Mr. Kucinich, and he was trying to talk to Hispanic voters here, a potentially important constituency. About 20 came to hear him speak on Friday, along with a University of Toledo student wearing a Ron Paul pin, though they were almost outnumbered by journalists, TV crews and campaign workers. 
Mr. Kucinich, 65, is battling Marcy Kaptur of Toledo, a fellow incumbent and fellow progressive, in a Democratic primary on Tuesday. Less than half of the new district, a barbell-shaped piece of land that stretches about 100 miles along Lake Erie, is made up of Mr. Kucinich's old turf, and he has spent recent weeks traversing it in an all-out effort to get votes.
On Saturday, Russell Simmons, the music mogul (and a fellow vegan), came to Ohio to stump for him, followed by Robert F. Kennedy Jr. on Sunday. Willie Nelson, a friend, held a benefit concert.
Mr. Kucinich frames the election in the starkest of terms, as a test of Democratic -- as in Democratic Party -- values. He points to his voting record -- against the American invasion of Iraq and the Patriot Act, and for the pro-immigrant Dream Act. He supports same-sex marriage and has shifted over time on abortion, now backing abortion rights.
''This little Congressional seat, between Cleveland and Toledo, suddenly ends up being a place where these great questions are being tested,'' he said in an interview on Friday. ''The Democratic Party will be defined by this race.''
Ms. Kaptur argues that she is also progressive: She was featured in the Michael Moore film ''Capitalism: A Love Story,'' on the financial meltdown. Like Mr. Kucinich, she also voted against military action in Iraq (though unlike him she voted to pay for the war after it began), and more recently opposed intervention in Libya.
But her stance on social issues is more conservative -- she does not support federal funds for abortion, for example -- than Mr. Kucinich's, reflecting the sensibilities of her district, said her campaign spokesman, Steve Fought.
''There's no way to out-liberal Dennis Kucinich,'' said Mr. Fought, who added that their campaign focused on kitchen-table issues that he argued were more important to people in the district than national issues Mr. Kucinich had sought to emphasize.
Mr. Kucinich has a self-styled flair and does not always follow the party line. He has brought articles of impeachment against George W. Bush and Dick Cheney. He has taken a keen interest in foreign policy, visiting Syria in 2007 and praising its leadership for accepting Iraqi refugees, an unusual step for an American politician. Even the mechanics of his campaign are unorthodox: His press secretary seems to takes pride in carrying a ''dumb phone,'' which does not receive e-mail.
''Dennis is John Belushi in 'Animal House,' '' said Dennis Eckart, a former Democratic congressman from Cleveland. ''Marcy is the librarian who tells folks to be quiet and get their homework done.''
Tim Hagan, the Democratic nominee for governor in Ohio in 2002, praised Mr. Kucinich's philosophical consistency, which he said was not a result of political posturing but genuine conviction. But Mr. Hagan said the runs for presidency had hurt Mr. Kucinich in Ohio, where they seemed to send a message that he was more involved with his own national ambitions than the local issues people cared about, like the economy.
''He's got a very loyal constituency, but the national stage has diminished him as a candidate,'' Mr. Hagan said.
Ed FitzGerald, the Cuyahoga County executive, whose district includes Cleveland, Mr. Kucinich's hometown and an important part of the new district, has refused to endorse Mr. Kucinich. While Ms. Kaptur ''was meeting with my staff and me about local projects,'' Mr. FitzGerald said, Mr. Kucinich was not around much, an absence that he said ''caused a great deal of grumbling among local officials.''
Many political analysts in Ohio agreed that Mr. Kucinich faced an uphill battle on Tuesday, something Mr. Kucinich's supporters did not deny. But few were willing to write him off, saying that his determination to remain part of the American political conversation means he will remain in the public sphere, even if he loses here.
One possibility might be running in Washington State, something he had been exploring last year.
''Dennis Kucinich has more lives than Felix the Cat,'' Mr. Eckart said. ''He's been pronounced politically dead a dozen times. You're tempted to say, 'He's going to lose.' Then you realize he does lose frequently, but he comes back every time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a battle to save his seat because of redistricting, Representative Dennis Kucinich hit the campaign trail, speaking here in Lorain, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Marcy Kaptur 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); WRITERS (69%); ABORTION (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); MUSIC (66%); US PATRIOT ACT (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (92%); MARCY KAPTUR (79%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



216 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Slowing in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GUANGZHOU, China -- The nights are a little darker now here in the main metropolis of southeastern China, at the center of one of the country's largest export hubs.
It is but one sign of the slightly dimmer economic outlook for China that Premier Wen Jiabao forecast on Monday, when he reduced the government's minimum growth target for 2012 to what would be, if growth fell that far, the lowest rate in more than two decades.
Construction sites across Guangzhou used to be floodlit, so that work could continue through the night on the forests of new residential and office towers reaching toward the stars. But now, during a nationwide real estate downturn, builders are not starting projects or scrambling to finish ones already under way, so there is little need for night-work illumination.
The Chinese economy, after nearly three decades of rapid, almost uninterrupted growth, seems to be settling down to a still strong but less blistering pace. But some sectors are struggling, including exports and luxury residential real estate construction. 
Premier Wen said in his annual report to the National People's Congress on Monday morning in Beijing that the government had scaled its economic growth target back to 7.5 percent this year, down from the 8 percent that Beijing has set as a minimum growth target in recent years. If growth does come in at only 7.5 percent, it will be the slowest pace in 22 years.
As Mr. Wen delivered his lengthy report, broadcast nationally and watched on countless TV sets in diners and shops here in Guangzhou, the mood at construction sites and factory districts seemed more downbeat than usual.
Shop clerks in a wholesale market complained about the scarcity of customers. At a factory gate, workers said that few jobs were available except at the minimum wage. And at an employment office, the jobless fretted that even if they found work, they would have little hope of buying apartments typically priced beyond their means.
Su Weizhong and three other clerks late Monday morning stood at a desk with little to do at a plumbing supplies store in the wholesale market.
''A year ago, there were people in every shop, looking and asking about the prices,'' Mr. Su said. ''Projects are finishing, but there are absolutely no new projects this year.''
With China having been the world's main growth engine in recent years, a slowdown is hardly welcome news for the global economy. Neither is the prospect of a restive population -- a continual worry for Beijing, if it cannot meet the aspirations of a rising middle class.
In some ways, though, the United States could actually benefit from slower Chinese growth, many economists believe. China's appetite for commodities has helped push up prices for everything from oil to iron ore. But those price pressures could ease, as China shifts toward an emphasis on slower but more sustainable economic expansion.
And while less rapid growth could dampen China's demand for imports, that would have little impact on most American businesses. Exports to China represented just 0.6 percent of the United States' economic output last year.
At its peak, in 2007, China's economy grew at an annual pace of 14.2 percent. As recently as 2010, it was 10.4 percent. Now, though, the government is trying to guide the economy toward a minimum average annual growth of 7 percent through 2015.
Slower growth partly reflects a government attempt to shift the economy more toward personal consumption, with less emphasis on exports and investment in big domestic construction and infrastructure projects. But government officials have given a series of signals since mid-February that growth may be slowing more than they intended.
The central bank on Feb. 18 gave permission to state-controlled commercial banks to lend a larger share of their assets. The next week the commerce ministry announced that it was drafting plans to increase tax rebates for exporters, as financial troubles have weakened demand in Europe, China's largest export market. The commerce ministry also said it was looking for ways to reverse a slump in foreign investment this winter from Europe and the United States.
Shortly after Mr. Wen spoke on Monday, dozens of would-be workers waiting for job interviews milled around outside the gates of the large Liteon Guangzhou electronics manufacturing complex. Standing behind them were clumps of employment agents who had brought the workers in buses and were hoping for commissions from Liteon for helping to find labor.
Urban minimum wages are rising briskly, particularly here in Guangzhou and elsewhere in the industrial Pearl River Delta region of southeastern China. And they are supposed to keep rising 13 percent a year under Beijing's five-year plan. But many of the job applicants and their friends from nearby factories said that they did not feel they were benefiting from the labor shortage.
''It's hard to find a good job; it's easy to find just any job,'' said Gao Qing, a 21-year-old who was hoping for a quality-inspection position. Many of the available jobs pay only the local minimum wage, around $200 a month before overtime, and many of the jobs are at small factories with questionable reputations for paying workers on time.
And some of the smaller factories have reduced or eliminated traditional subsidies for workers' food, housing and other benefits to offset the cost of higher minimum wages, Ms. Gao and other workers said.
At a downtown Guangzhou employment office Monday afternoon, Ma Yaoguang, an unemployed security guard, said he worried how he would afford rent of $30 to $45 a month for a tiny room even if he could find a job. Echoing a worry for tens of millions of young Chinese, Mr. Ma added that, ''I cannot even dream of owning an apartment.''
Exorbitant real estate prices are a national preoccupation. A 1,000-square-foot apartment in central Guangzhou costs about the equivalent of $300,000 -- nearly 50 times the starting annual salary of a new college graduate with a marketable skill like computer engineering, although graduates who do find career-track jobs typically start receiving regular raises.
The government is trying to engineer a decline in real estate prices to improve affordability, without damaging investor confidence so much that prices tip into a multiyear downward spiral of the sort seen in the United States. Down payments have been raised to 40 percent or more and many regulations discourage investors from buying more than one home.
Government and private indexes of residential real estate prices in China suffer from many methodological flaws. But they now consistently show slightly weaker prices, along with a nose dive in transactions as buyers wait for further price declines.
Two Guangzhou real estate brokers said that prices here had dropped by up to 20 percent over the last year. The nationwide slowdown in real estate cost thousands of agents their jobs and led to the closing of hundreds of brokerage offices.
''There is no buying sentiment in the market right now,'' said a broker here who gave only his last name, Leung, because he feared retaliation for publicly questioning government policies.
The government has ordered a sharp increase in the construction of low-income housing. But in Guangzhou and elsewhere in China, there is considerable cynicism about whether political connections will be needed to buy such apartments, which are supposed to be priced at a little less than half the square-foot rate of commercial-market properties.
Exports have also been weak this winter, a trend expected to continue in February statistics due out later this week, after adjusting for the Chinese New Year. Zhu Wei, the export manager at the High Hope Zhongding Corporation, a maker of festive lights and lanterns in Nanjing, said in a recent telephone interview that orders were down 30 percent from a year ago and still sliding, mainly because of the slack economy in Europe.
Chinese business leaders complain that steeply rising wages and increasingly stringent labor and environmental regulations are driving up their costs and undermining their nation's competitiveness, said Stanley Lau, the deputy chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, a trade association whose members employ 10 million people in the Pearl River Delta region.
''Minimum wage increases are too fast and too high, and we also worry about the new regulations being introduced -- too many and too quickly,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A roadside barber plied his trade in front of a stalled construction project on Monday in Guangzhou, China. (B1)
 Above, workers at a building supplies market in Guangzhou, China, are idle as luxury residential real estate construction suffers. Below, the government has ordered more low-income housing. (B6) CHART: Slowing Down: If China's economy hits only its official growth target this year, it would be the slowest pace since 1990. (Source: China National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC Data) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); PLUMBING SUPPLY STORES (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



217 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Sticks to a Bare-Bones Style

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
WESTERVILLE, Ohio -- On the eve of Super Tuesday, more than two full months into the presidential nominating season, Rick Santorum's campaign is still a bare-bones operation, with little of the slickness that many presidential campaigns exhibit by this time in the process.
This is a badge of honor for Mr. Santorum. He is fond of saying that his campaign lives off the land -- he drove around Iowa before the caucuses with a single aide, or sometimes by himself, and he ended up winning that state, although belatedly, after a botched count initially declared that he had come in second to Mitt Romney. 
Now Mr. Santorum has three more victories under his belt, and he and Mr. Romney are running neck and neck here in Ohio, the most important prize of the 10 states that vote on Tuesday.
And yet, Mr. Santorum's campaign events still seem to be stuck in the pre-Iowa past. The events are bigger. More people are attending. The number of television cameras and news reporters has multiplied. And the campaign is millions of dollars richer.
But the money goes mostly for travel and for commercials, not for a bloated campaign operation or elaborate advance work. And it shows, as the media and even supporters scramble to keep up with schedules that sometimes are made public with little notice.
Mr. Romney's campaign, by contrast, is flush with money and devotes much of it to the meticulous, well-planned staging of events. The settings often reflect Mr. Romney's message -- on Monday, for example, he spoke at a guard-rail factory in Canton where he discussed jobs and the economy. He made a point of referring to the factory and talking about its products -- and what taxes it would pay under his polices, compared with those of President Obama.
By contrast, Mr. Santorum spoke on Monday morning in the cafeteria of a Christian school outside Dayton. He spoke in the afternoon here in this Columbus suburb at an American Legion Hall. Often, he holds his events in dreary hotel ballrooms with bad lighting, the kinds of places that might be available for a last-minute booking.
Only recently have his aides started tacking up a sign (''Made in America'') to serve as a backdrop for Mr. Santorum while he stands at a lectern. It is a chance for a little product placement, but Mr. Santorum has not maximized its potential.
As much as Mr. Santorum lauds Ronald Reagan, his aides have not sought to imitate the Reagan campaign's legendary focus on what are called ''the visuals'' -- how his events looked on television. When his campaign began, his disregard for them could easily have been attributed to lack of money or lack of organization. But now that he has more of both, many of his events are still staged in places that are generic and mundane. They offer few clues that place him in any particular state or region.
Some might suggest that the disregard for staging an eye-catching event is the product of a weak organization. The Romney camp has argued that Mr. Santorum's organization is so weak that it failed to file a full slate of delegates in Ohio. And that, they say, is a warning sign that it would not be able to overcome Mr. Obama in the fall.
The Santorum campaign says the minimal staging is intentional. In fact, aides said, that is exactly the message -- what you see is what you get. The stripped-down events are meant to convey what they say is the candidate's authenticity and to show, not just tell, that he would not spend the taxpayers' money on frippery.
''The press oftentimes has seen so many of these candidates and seen so many events, they expect lights and music and a production, a show, a teleprompter, a few well-scripted one-liners -- but that isn't Rick Santorum,'' said Hogan Gidley, Mr. Santorum's spokesman.
''It's not that we can't or won't do those things,'' he said. ''We just don't do them. He doesn't want people thinking he's contrived.''
At the American Legion Hall, Mr. Santorum pointed out to the wall-to-wall crowd that he was wearing his signature sweater vest. He said he and his family wore the vests ''to remind us where we come from -- which is basically out of nowhere.''
In recent weeks, his campaign does appear to have printed up more yard signs and has been distributing them to supporters who attend events. But for weeks, people who came to see him lamented that they could not find buttons or bumper stickers.
For all of Mr. Santorum's rejection of the trappings of a traditional campaign, he is clearly pleased to have at least one -- the addition of a statewide officeholder as wingman. Mr. Santorum has been joined by Mike DeWine, Ohio's ubiquitous attorney general; they are old friends from their days in the Senate together.
Mr. DeWine has traversed the state with Mr. Santorum, introducing him at events and vouching for him, recalling the days when they worked together in that establishment institution that Mr. Santorum does not often mention, the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



218 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Romney and Santorum Roll Up Their Sleeves for Blue-Collar Votes

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Canton, Ohio, and Allison Kopicki from New York.

 BODY:
ZANESVILLE, Ohio -- If Mitt Romney defeats Rick Santorum in the bellwether primary here on Tuesday, it will be in no small part because he managed to win over one of the most hotly contested and elusive segments of the electorate: white working-class voters.
At a metal works in Canton and a welding factory in Youngstown, in mailboxes and on the radio, Mr. Romney's intense focus on these Republican-leaning voters was in evidence on Monday as he made his closing appeal in Ohio -- if not as an everyman, then at least as a chief executive who knows how to generate blue-collar jobs and get factories running again.
''Other people in this race have debated about the economy, they've read about the economy, they've talked about it in subcommittee meetings, but I've actually been in it,'' Mr. Romney told workers at a guardrail factory in Canton, where he walked among huge coils of steel. ''I understand what it takes to get business successful, and to thrive.'' 
Introducing a new slogan -- ''more jobs, less debt, smaller government'' -- Mr. Romney's factory visits were not just about the Ohio primary. They were part of a broader strategy, hatched at his Boston headquarters, to fight Mr. Santorum for both working-class voters and conservatives on what aides consider to be Mr. Romney's turf, the economy, rather than on social issues.
And while Mr. Romney's immediate goal is a strong showing in Ohio, one of 10 Super Tuesday states and a crucial test of whether Mr. Santorum can remain a credible challenger for the nomination, he is also seeking to prove he can maintain his party's traditional advantage among working-class voters in a general election matchup with President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who has mixed his faith-based appeal with a workingman's sensibility born of his Pennsylvania coal and steel country roots, was not about to cede that ground.
At Dayton Christian School in Miamisburg on Monday, he urged a capacity crowd to vote for ''a guy who grew up in a steel town in western Pennsylvania who no one gave any chance to be standing here in Ohio in March, because he went out and believed in free people'' and in ''building a stronger economy based on manufacturing.''
Noting that Mr. Romney's far better-financed campaign had vastly outspent him in Ohio, he added: ''Money's not going to buy this election. The best ideas and believing in the American people is going to win this election.''
Mr. Santorum's success with working-class voters in some states, notably Iowa and Michigan, has helped expose Mr. Romney's potential vulnerabilities with them. Mr. Romney's background as a wealthy private-equity manager and some of his off-the-cuff remarks -- like his comment at Daytona two weekends ago that ''I have some great friends who are Nascar team owners'' -- have only emphasized his challenge in connecting with blue-collar voters.
Advisers inside and outside Mr. Romney's campaign headquarters had grown alarmed that such comments had opened him up to criticism that he was an elitist. But those concerns coincided with a recognition that a prolonged diversion into social conservative touchstones -- abortion and contraception -- had diverted the campaign from its core economic message, giving Mr. Santorum an opening.
The aides concluded that the only way for Mr. Romney to improve his performance among these critical voters was to spend less time talking about the modest upbringing of his father, who went on to become the governor of Michigan, and more time telling the stories of real workers he met at factories.
In the past few days, they staged events in more working-class settings like the campaign stops he made Monday.
The campaign carefully choreographed the stops, featuring images of Mr. Romney surrounded by heavy equipment and talking about galvanizing steel.
''This piece equipment behind you, you know what that does?'' Mr. Romney asked, pointing to a big blue machine. ''That shreds cars. In 12 seconds, you put a car in at one end, out the other end comes little pieces of metal and rubber and glass and whatever.''
Speaking at a rally here in Zanesville -- a town in central Ohio with a median family income of $31,932 -- Mr. Romney said the 2012 election revolved around ''whether the stresses on families are going to be alleviated, where you've got a mom working the day shift and a dad working a night shift and the kids not sure who's home when.''
Mr. Romney, whose net worth is estimated at more than $200 million, has consistently won high-income voters in primary states, according to exit polls.
Working-class voters have been less loyal to any one candidate, with Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum -- and at times Newt Gingrich, who is not competing strongly here -- often fracturing their allegiance.
In that sense, they have emerged as a potential decisive swing vote, particularly in Ohio, where voters earning $30,000 to $100,000 a year constitute 67 percent of the Republican primary electorate, making them an essential group for each candidate.
They will be no less important in the general election, and Mr. Santorum has argued that his ability to connect in these manufacturing regions would make him a stronger opponent against Mr. Obama.
Mr. Romney's aides have made clear that they are thinking about how to compete for the Rust Belt constituency against Mr. Obama, who had similar struggles with working-class Democrats during the 2008 primaries and caucuses but overcame them in the general election. He defeated Senator John McCain in Ohio, for instance.
But the many ups and downs of the nominating contest have kept Mr. Romney's aides from focusing heavily on a potential general election, and on Monday their concerns were far more parochial. With polls showing a very tight race here, they were on tenterhooks, believing that they had enough momentum to beat back Mr. Santorum in Ohio's popular vote but hardly certain.
Mr. Romney's struggles to connect with individual rank-and-file voters have become clearer as the Republican primary season has continued, and his challenges were apparent in interviews on Monday.
''I've heard some people say that Mitt doesn't know how to pump his own gas,'' said Scott Williams, a dentist, who saw Mr. Romney speak in Zanesville. But, he added, ''I find that offensive. Who of us wouldn't want to be rich? But he didn't just inherit all his money. He knows how to work.''
Patrick Sullivan went to the Santorum event at Dayton Christian School, a converted NCR Corporation training center that had been shuttered. He pointed to Mr. Romney's background as a rich businessman as a reason he was supporting Mr. Santorum.
''Obama will absolutely label him the 1 percent, especially when they get into what he did at Bain,'' said Mr. Sullivan.
Bain is the leveraged-buyout firm that Mr. Romney led and that his opponents, even on the Republican side, have portrayed as preying on struggling companies (portrayals that Mr. Romney has called unfair).
But in a sign that Republican voters may be moving reluctantly toward accepting Mr. Romney as the nominee, Mr. Sullivan said he would support him, if only out of antipathy for Mr. Obama.
''Look,'' he said, ''I'd vote for a dead dog instead of Obama.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VETERANS: An audience at an American Legion hall in Westerville, Ohio, on Monday heard Rick Santorum's appeal for support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FACTORY WORKERS: Employees at Gregory Industries in Canton, Ohio, got a visit from Mitt Romney on the eve of Super Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
A day before Super Tuesday, Rick and Karen Santorum, above, left a campaign event in Westerville, Ohio. Ron Paul, far left, toured a factory in Sandpoint, Idaho. Newt Gingrich arrived at a luncheon in Kingsport, Tenn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MATT MILLS MCKNIGHT/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) GRAPHICS: Super Tuesday Delegates at Stake: The outlook for the candidates in each state and how the day's 437 delegates are allocated. (Sources: Republican National Committee
state committees
 Joshua T. Putnam, Frontloading HQ) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RELIGION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (59%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RON PAUL (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012



219 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Meet Jonathan Foley, 'Climate Pragmatist'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Revisiting a call for "climate pragmatism" from a top climate and biodiversity analyst. 

 BODY:
Late in 2010, Jonathan Foley, who directs the Institute of the Environment at the University of Minnesota, wrote "Becoming a Climate Pragmatist," an essay published online then and the following spring in the institute's magazine, Momentum. You can get a feel for his work and views in the video above in which he explains 2009 research on "planetary boundaries." I also encourage you to read his 2011 paper, "Solutions for a Cultivated Planet."
I've mentioned his essay a couple of times but am overdue to draw direct attention to it, in part because as others have adopted or bashed the term "climate pragmatism," Foley's own views have largely been missed.
He is a scientist on the leading edge of climate change analysis who proposes an end run around paralyzing climate disputes by focusing on energy and forest policies with multiple benefits and on fostering resilience to climate extremes. Yes, there is "selection bias" here, but I'm posting as a counterweight to the broader selection bias in climate discourse, which focuses on the loudest voices in the room. Here's the core of Foley's pitch: 
Many of my conservative friends are deeply suspicious of climate change, and they hate carbon taxes and cap and trade. They're not interested in adapting to a supposedly hypothetical future. Fair enough. Everyone is entitled to an opinion.
But these same friends embrace ideas like U.S. energy independence, reducing foreign oil imports, promoting economic growth, protecting our families from harm and improving the U.S. balance of trade. And many of these same friends, while skeptical about climate change, see the wisdom in protecting rain forests and the world's biodiversity.
Guess what? Many of the things that help reduce the threats of climate change can also be good for our economy and national security, and vice versa. Many of the changes proposed to adapt to climate change are readily justifiable as approaches to shelter our wealth and well-being against the erratic forces of nature such as Hurricane Katrina and the recent floods in Australia. Why not work to boost innovation, the economy, disaster preparedness and national security, and be pleasantly surprised when greenhouse gas emissions and vulnerability to climate change go down, too? Why not approach the debate from another direction, and be happy that we find allies instead of adversaries?
Of course, some vested interests and ideologues will find ways to fight even this approach, but they can be marginalized. And, of course, certain political realities in Washington, particularly the need for 60 votes in the Senate to move significant legislation, are a daunting roadblock to just about push for change.
But Foley (and I) see plenty of merit in broadening a base of support for a menu of steps that can build a more resilient and inventive nation and global society and foster a shift toward an energy policy that works for the long haul.
I liked how he closed his essay, as well:
I honestly don't care who "wins" or "loses" the climate debate. I just want to solve the problem. And I know that there are good people, with good ideas, on the other side, who want to solve the problem too. Maybe, if we all can find the humility to care more about finding real solutions than winning the debate, we can get somewhere.
Tom Friedman's column on Sunday echoed Foley's thoughts, which was why I posted this note on Twitter:
What would you say (in 140 characters) on this question?

        
Two Nobelists Offer Views of Human-Driven Global Warming
        
More on Tar, Oil, Pipelines and Presidents
        
Gas Leaks on the Path to a Post-Fossil Future
        
Indoor Living and the Global Greenhouse
        
Filling the Global Energy Research Gap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (68%); RAIN FORESTS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); HURRICANES (61%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); DISASTER PLANNING (60%) Climate Change; energy; Global Warming; greenhouse gases; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Biodiversity; Carbon Dioxide; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Sustainability

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



220 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Paulson's Post-Traumatic February

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: One of Paulson &#038; Company's main funds lost 1.5 percent in February. As these things go, that's not a horrible month. But given the history of this particular fund, which lost more than 50 percent in 2011, it could be a scary reminder of the not-too-distant dark days. 

 BODY:
Pulses may be quickening at Paulson & Company, the hedge fund giant, after one of the firm's main funds lost 1.5 percent in February. 
As these things go, that's not a horrible month, but given the history of this particular fund, which lost more than 50 percent in 2011, the month could be a scary reminder of the not-too-distant dark days. And the loss comes just as things were starting to look up for Paulson Advantage Plus, a leveraged fund that -- thanks to a strong January -- is still up about 3.5 percent for the year, according to an investor. 
With the catastrophic losses of 2011, the firm, founded by John A. Paulson, will now have to make more than 100 percent in investment gains to reclaim the lost ground. That is significant because the hedge fund cannot charge the industry's coveted performance fees until it reaches that so-called high water mark. 
Other Paulson funds, while not as badly battered, are also climbing out of deep holes this year. Some are doing quite well. The Recovery Fund, which bets on the recovery of the United States economy, is up more than 6 percent so far. Paulson Partners Enhanced, which uses leverage is it takes positions in companies expected to be engaged in merger activity, is up 11 percent through February, according to the investor.
A spokesman for Paulson & Company declined to comment.
This year, like last year, all eyes are on Mr. Paulson. His investors are hoping that he can pull off another bet like the one that made him famous in 2007, when he wagered big on the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and minted billions for himself and his clients. 
Wall Street is following Mr. Paulson, too, although with schadenfreude.

        
Many Hedge Funds Still Smarting From the Financial Crisis
        
More Turbulence at Falcone's Harbinger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (63%) Citadel Investment Group; Harbinger Capital Partners; John A. Paulson; Kenneth C. Griffin; Paulson & Company; Philip A. Falcone; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Paulson, John A; Hedge Funds; United States Economy

PERSON: Paulson, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



221 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: "The extent of fake wine at all quality levels in China is jaw-dropping,'' Jancis Robinson writes, and, of course, the problem is not just in China. -- Eric Asimov
Salon: "How do you stay a decent member of society while abandoning the foods that most people eat every day?" A convert to the gluten-free gospel tries to keep the faith while not driving everyone around her nuts. -- Patrick Farrell
Gilt Taste: The international "Coupe du Monde de la Boulangerie," the World Cup of bread, is under way in Paris; American Mike Zakowski is seeking to recapture his 2010 crown in baguettes. -- Julia Moskin
Smithsonian: Everything you ever wanted to know about the genetic development of the new Tango mandarin orange (Citrus Reticulata Blanco VI 765) that has been designed to dominate the citrus market. Tastes like chicken? -- Glenn Collins 
The San Francisco Chronicle: In the Santa Rita Hills of western Santa Barbara County, Jon Bonn sees evidence of a stylistic change, as he finds more wines that are lively, structured and leaner rather than hefty and opulent. -- Eric Asimov 
Epicurious: For mixing that nutri-tini: vodka made from quinoa. -- Patrick Farrell
The Economist: Health researchers are studying a surprisingly paradoxical new nutritional phenomenon striking the families of farmers in Lebanon, as well as mothers and children in Egypt, Peru and Mexico: Youthful populations that are suffering from both obesity and malnutrition, simultaneously. The reason? They are eating too many calories, without enough nutrition. -- Glenn Collins 
The New York Times: An alarming increase in cavities among American preschoolers is traced in part to nonstop snacking, sugary drinks at bedtime and bottled, unfluoridated water. -- Patrick Farrell 
Homesick Texan: Not being Texan, it doesn't matter that I missed the chance to celebrate the state's independence day last week with this grapefruit-pecan sheet cake with cream cheese frosting. I can make it any time I please -- like, today. -- Julia Moskin
: Nol Pinguet, the longtime face of Domaine Huet in Vouvray, recently departed, apparently after a difference of opinion with the majority owner. Chris Kissack looks at Pinguet's final vintage, while offering some retrospective perspective. -- Eric Asimov
The New York Daily News: The food tour, which has riddled Manhattan with long lines outside bakeries and restaurants, discovers Queens. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINE (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); CHEESE (78%); BAKERIES (75%); RETAIL BAKERIES (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); OBESITY (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); MALNUTRITION (70%); FAMILY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



222 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Rights Erode Before Women's Eyes

BYLINE: ALISON SMALE


HIGHLIGHT: "Can it really be that we are losing ground, sisters?," Alison Smale, the editor of the IHT asks, as she introduces our new special report on The Female Factor. "Are Western women in fact no longer in the vanguard of progress for women, as sisters in Africa, Asia and Latin America surge past taboos in emerging economies?" 

 BODY:
PARIS - This year, in the International Herald Tribune's series on The Female Factor, we thought we would look at women from all over who make a difference.
We started off in China, which is home to one in five of the world's women, and probably tells us something about the future...
If so, it is not a really heartening picture. What Didi Kirsten Tatlow found is that rights, many of them gained in the era of Mao Zedong, are being rolled back. Representation in the top leadership echelons is virtually zero - a serious impediment to gender parity in a one-party state. Brave women like Liu Ping, who has suffered broken bones and heavy harassment since launching an unsanctioned (and unsuccessful) bid to run for her local council in southern China, are being turned away. 
Even women who feel as if they are getting ahead - Didi talked to a rural immigrant who landed in Beijing at 17 and now counts herself the successful owner of a farm - face hardships.
In Britain, too, many women feel up against it as austerity bites. Services like child care - essential for any woman hoping to work after becoming a mother - are shutting down, and women who thought they had a place in the middle class find themselves clinging on tight, losing sleep over how to pay credit card bills that are the only thing that keep them going. As one woman told Beth Gardiner, it feels like a return to the days when women had no independent income of their own, and depended on their male breadwinner to come home and plonk the week's wages on the table.
Can it really be that we are losing ground, sisters? Are Western women in fact no longer in the vanguard of progress for women, as sisters in Africa, Asia and Latin America surge past taboos in emerging economies?
Finally,we go to Russia and look at a rare figure - a Russian woman holding her own in politics. Irina Prokhorova is the sister of Mikhail Prokhorov, who just took a somewhat quixotic run at the presidency (won, of course by Vladimir Putin). Mikhail may be Russia's third-richest man and a seemingly typical oligarch, but his sister is something else. Nine years older, Irina favors plain suits, a sensible haircut and resembles a liberal arts professor, Sophia Kishkovsky found. She is also an acknowledged expert in Russian history and culture, and in American and English literature, running a well-respected publishing house. Most notably, she stunned Oscar-winning film director Nikita Mikhalkov into silence during a televised debate - and he admitted that if she was running with her brother, he would vote for her!
Could it be that a woman like Irina, or the Chinese of an earlier era, had more rights because Communism, for all its murderous failings, at least paid lip service to gender parity? As Viviane Reding, Europe's justice commissioner, told the IHT this week, she intends to follow suit. It is no longer enough, she said, to embrace women on corporate boards. Quotas are the only thing that works, and so she will start mobilizing for new laws to ensure that women can occupy up to 60 percent of the seats on corporate boards.

Take a moment to tell us what you think. Whom do you know who makes a difference for women? Whom should we profile this year? What issues, where, are not being covered by the media, or are being covered incorrectly? 
And what do you plan to do to mark International Women's Day on Thursday? We'll be running a profile of one of the bravest women on Earth: Aung San Suu Kyi.
Leave your questions below in the comments area to be answered by Alison Smale and the reporters of The Female Factor pieces.

        
Fighting for the Chinese Enlightenment
        
Womenscapes
        
Israel's Clash of Civilizations
        
On a New TV Show in China, Cue the Firing Squad
        
A Chinese Scholar, Summoned for Tea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); HISTORY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); BONE FRACTURES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); POLITICAL DEBATES (61%); LITERATURE (60%); PUBLISHING (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%) China; women; women and girls; women's rights; Prokhorov, Mikhail D; Reding, Viviane; Women and Girls; International Herald Tribune; Great Britain; Russia; The Female Factor

ORGANIZATION: International Herald Tribune

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%) Prokhorov, Mikhail D; Reding, Viviane

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Great Britain; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



223 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: K.K.R. and Chesapeake Energy Form $250 Million Partnership

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is teaming up with Chesapeake Energy to invest in oil and natural gas projects in the United States, the latest move by private equity in the lucrative energy sector. 

 BODY:
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is teaming up with the Chesapeake Energy Corporation to invest in oil and natural gas projects in the United States, the latest move by private equity in the lucrative energy sector.
The companies will invest $250 million in the effort, with K.K.R. providing 90 percent of the cash, or $225 million. Chesapeake will source, manage and acquire the projects.
"As the largest oil and gas leasehold owner and most active driller in the U.S., we are uniquely well positioned to leverage our operating footprint to pursue profitable and related business opportunities," Aubrey K. McClendon, chief executive of Chesapeake, said in a statement. "We are delighted to partner with K.K.R., a leading investor and partner to the energy industry, to expand our royalty acquisition business."
 Private equity firms have shown increasing interest in the energy sector. On Feb. 27, the Blackstone Group said it had invested $2 billion in Cheniere Energy Partners, a subsidiary of Cheniere Energy, the Houston-based energy company. The investment will help the company build a production facility in Louisiana in which natural gas will be compressed, chilled and shipped to Europe, Asia and other international markets.
K.K.R.'s partnership with Chesapeake is its latest effort to tap this expanding industry. In November, a consortium led by K.K.R. agreed to buy the Samson Investment Company, a large privately held energy firm, for roughly $7.2 billion, in one of the biggest leveraged buyouts since the financial crisis.
The Chesapeake partnership is another effort to take advantage of new energy reserves in the United States, according to Robert W. Antablin, a K.K.R. director who runs the firm's royalties investment strategy.
"We continue to see attractive opportunities to invest behind the domestic exploration and production of oil and gas," Mr. Antablin said in a statement.

        
A Record Buyout Turns Sour for Investors
        
Under Volcker, Old Dividing Line in Banks May Return

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); OIL & GAS LEASES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (52%) Chesapeake Energy; K.K.R.; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &; Energy; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (96%); CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (92%); SAMSON INVESTMENT CO (67%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); CHENIERE ENERGY INC (56%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (96%); CHK (NYSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (58%); LNG (NYSE MKT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



224 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: What Is Modern Slavery? Investigating Human Trafficking

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Learning about the difficult topics of human trafficking and sexual servitude by reading the work of Nicholas D. Kristof, a Times columnist, in a lesson developed in conjunction with Global Nomads Group. 

 BODY:
For today's lesson, we collaborated again -- as we did last fall on a lesson about the famine in Somalia -- with the Global Nomads Group, an international organization that creates interactive educational programs for students about global issues, to foster dialogue and understanding about the world.
This lesson can be taught on its own or used in conjunction with Global Nomads' Human Trafficking webcast, scheduled for Thursday. If you are interested in participating with your classes, visit the Global Nomads Web site.
Update: March 19, 2012: Global Nomads Group has posted theirHuman Trafficking Web cast on YouTube.
Overview | In this lesson, students learn about human trafficking, also known as modern slavery, and how it has become one of the largest industries in the world. Using coverage of human trafficking by Nicholas D. Kristof, a Times columnist, they explore the causes of and consequences for victims and traffickers, the role of globalization and ways to respond effectively. 
Materials | True-false quiz about human trafficking (see below); computers with Internet access.
Note to Teacher | The topic of human trafficking and the specific content in New York Times coverage can be graphic and may be disturbing to some students. Please preview this lesson and all related content to determine appropriateness for your group, and consider providing students with alternative materials or an alternative option.
Warm-Up | Before class, create a true-false quiz with the following five statements:

        
Human trafficking only affects underdeveloped countries where poverty is an extreme problem.
        
Human trafficking is the fifth-largest criminal industry worldwide.
        
The estimated global annual profits made from the exploitation of all trafficked forced labor are $31.6 million.
        
The majority of trafficking victims are 18 to 24.
        
Numerous Internet sites are used to facilitate sex trafficking.
Before students arrive, put the term "human trafficking" on the board and invite students to define the term. Write definitions or create a word web on the board with the words and phrases students contribute. Then clarify any misunderstandings and provide them with the definition. Define any unfamiliar terms.
Next, explain that they will be asked to share their basic understanding of human trafficking. Give students the brief quiz to complete independently. After a few minutes, invite students to share their responses and provide the correct answers (1. False; 2. False; 3. False; 4. True; 5. True). Ask: What surprised you?
Explain that they will now read a piece about human trafficking by Nicholas D. Kristof, a New York Times columnist who has made human trafficking one of the focal points of his work.
Related | In the Sunday Review article "Fighting Back, One Brothel Raid at a Time," from Nov. 13, 2011, Mr. Kristof puts the story of one human trafficking activist into broader context:
Against my better judgment, I found myself the other day charging into a well-armed brothel in a police raid. But I was comforted to be with one of my heroes, Somaly Mam.
Somaly dedicates her life to battling forced prostitution, for she herself was sold as a child to a Cambodian brothel. After enduring torture and rapes, Somaly escaped and reinvented herself as an anti-trafficking activist.
It's partly because of grass-roots activists like Somaly, both in the United States and abroad, that human trafficking is increasingly recognized as a central human rights challenge. A U.N. agency estimates that more than 12 million people are engaged in forced labor, including sexual servitude. Another U.N. report has estimated that in Asia alone, "one million children are involved in the sex trade under conditions that are indistinguishable from slavery."
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Who is Somaly Mam, and what work do she and her foundation do?
        
How many people, including children, are thought to be engaged in false labor, including sexual servitude?
        
What kinds of challenges and risks face those in the anti-trafficking movement?
        
According to Mr. Kristof, what is the way to end human trafficking and sexual slavery?
        
What signs of progress has Mr. Kristof observed?
Activity | Split the class evenly into class into two groups. Explain that each group will delve deeper into an aspect of the topic of human trafficking. Group 1 will look at the overall picture of human trafficking, and Group 2 will explore the contributing factors.
Provide each group with the following guiding prompts.
Group 1: Overview of Human Trafficking
 To investigate where human trafficking is occurring and in what forms, and how it has played out worldwide.

        
What forms do human trafficking and sexual servitude take around the world?
        
Where in the world is human trafficking a serious issue? Highlight the countries on a world map.
        
What forms does it take in the United States?
        
Are there certain cities and towns where it is a serious problem? Highlight these places on a map of the nation.
        
How are victims found and "trafficked"? What is the process?
Group 2: Causes of Human Trafficking
 To investigate the roots of human trafficking and the factors that play a large role in the industry.

        
What factors contribute to and exacerbate human trafficking and sex slavery?
        
How are human trafficking and economics intertwined? Consider all parties involved: victims and their families, traffickers, customers, local law enforcement agencies and so on.
        
How does this issue relate to social, cultural and gender-based factors, laws, politics and poverty?
        
What initiatives have been undertaken to combat human trafficking? Do any of these target specific root causes, and if so, which ones and how? How effective do they seem to be?
Resources to use include all New York Times coverage of human trafficking, including Mr. Kristof's coverage in his column and on his blog, as well as the interactive feature "Fighting Human Trafficking, Country by Country" and the related article.
When group work is finished, each group presents its findings.
Then share this excerpt from one of Mr. Kristof's columns, in which he tells the harrowing story of yet another sex trafficking victim, Srey Pov:
Discuss the presentations and Mr. Kristof's statement. Ask: What factors contribute to the growth the industry? How are the United States and other countries - on governmental, institutional and individual levels - trying to combat human trafficking? What obstacles face abolitionists? What can students do to try to raise awareness about and combat human trafficking and sexual slavery?
Going Further | Participate in the Global Nomads Group's live webcast on human trafficking on Thursday.
The class can also decide to get involved in the fight against human trafficking, much the way one fourth-grade class from Brookline, Mass., took initiative on an issue the pupils felt strongly about.
One way to do this is to develop a service learning project in connection to human trafficking. You might consult ideas about how to help from organizations like Restore NYC, the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women and Do Something.
For a project focused on raising awareness, students might do a digital story project, using photographs to tell the stories of the human trafficking industry using videos, photographs, social media or tools like Glogster.
To start the digital story project, students should first identify which facet of the industry they would like to shine a spotlight on. Identifying an angle will allow students to create a storyline and hone in on their message. They should decide on the main character and the setting for the story, as well as eye-opening facts that correlate to the pictures you've chosen.
Completed digital stories can be shared at a school event like an assembly, with a wider audience online or in another way that you and your students determine will be effective.
To expand from the topic to delve further into women's issues worldwide, students read the New York Times Magazine excerpt of Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn's book "Half the Sky." After reading the article, they peruse the "Woman's World" photo feature and look at the winners of Mr. Kristof's "Half the Sky" contest.
They then choose a cause and an organization to support, or do a consciousness-raising campaign to respond to Mr. Kristof and Ms. WuDunn's assertion that "the paramount moral challenge" of our age is rectifying the injustices suffered by women around the globe.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Behavioral Studies
1. Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior.
Economics
2. Understands characteristics of different economic systems, economic institutions and economic incentives.
Geography
2. Knows the location of places, geographic features and patterns of the environment.
6. Understands that culture and experience influence people's perceptions of places and regions.
10. Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's cultural mosaics.
11. Understands the patterns and networks of economic interdependence on Earth's surface.
13. Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface.
World History
44. Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world.
45. Understands major global trends since World War II.
46. Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.

        
PUB-DATE: March 13, 1964
        
PUB-DATE: March 6, 1857
        
Poetry Pairing | 'To the Ladies'
        
Who's Got the Power? Reflecting on Healthy and Abusive Relationship Dynamics
        
Jan. 31, 1865 | House Passes 13th Amendment, Abolishing Slavery

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMAN TRAFFICKING (94%); SLAVERY (91%); SEX TRAFFICKING (90%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); WEBCASTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); FAMINE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (64%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); PROSTITUTION (62%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%) collaboration; exploitation; Human Trafficking; Nicholas Kristof; servitude; Slavery; women; Kristof, Nicholas D; Crime; Crises Around the World; Geography; Global Economics; Global History; Human Rights; Lesson Plans; Teaching with The New York Times; Women in the World

PERSON: Kristof, Nicholas D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOMALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012



225 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 44 words

HEADLINE: Broadway and Morris Street, 8:19 A.M.

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: N.Y. See: Demonstrators held mock pink slips in Lower Manhattan as part of a rally to highlight the plight of unemployed Americans. 

 BODY:

        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat
        
City's Unemployment Rate Dipped in October
        
New York State Registers Dip in Jobless Rate
        
City's Jobless Rate Dips for First Time in Months
        
Christie Talks of a Comeback, but Jobs Data May Say Otherwise
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); RIOTS (86%) Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Unemployment; Labor; N.Y. See

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2013



226 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
As an Adviser, Goldman Guaranteed Its Payday | Lloyd C. Blankfein had a script prepared for his phone call with Douglas L. Foshee, chief executive of the El Paso Corporation, the big energy company that last fall was in talks to be sold to Kinder Morgan, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in his DealBook column.
"I was very pleased you reached out to us on this most recent matter," the script goes, thanking Mr. Foshee for using Goldman Sachs as El Paso's adviser in the transaction.
Somewhat awkwardly, Goldman had a 19.1 percent stake in Kinder Morgan, the pipeline and energy storage company, and two seats on its board. So the script said, "We have asked our board members to recuse themselves and I know you have taken on a second adviser."
About a month later, Kinder Morgan announced it had agreed to acquire El Paso for $21.1 billion in cash and stock.
When the deal was announced, buried at the end of the news release was a list of Wall Street banks that had advised on the deal, including Goldman Sachs. Goldman received a $20 million fee for playing matchmaker for El Paso. The fee, of course, was not disclosed, nor was the Kinder Morgan stake owned by Goldman Sachs's private equity arm, worth some $4 billion. Nor did the release disclose that the Goldman banker who advised El Paso to accept Kinder Morgan's bid owned $340,000 worth of Kinder Morgan stock.
Now, however, a court ruling in a shareholder lawsuit has laid bare the truth: Goldman was on every conceivable side of the deal. As a result, El Paso may have unwittingly sold itself far too cheaply. DealBook Column 
 DEAL NOTES
Why Banking Chiefs Shouldn't Tell Jokes | At JPMorgan Chase's investor day last week, the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, told a joke about pay at newspapers, comments that some took as a mockery of a struggling industry. DealBook 
Watson Gets a Wall St. Job | I.B.M.'s Watson computer, which handily beat human "Jeopardy!" champions on the game show last year, will be used as an analyst for Citigroup, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Mealtime Moneyball: Hacking Seamless | Fast Company is out with an article about how value-minded Wall Streeters can game Seamless, the Web delivery system. DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Chinese Investors Find an Entry to U.S. Energy Deals | Chinese companies have found that making relatively low-profile deals, like joint ventures, allows them to invest in the United States oil industry, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sinopec Encounters Resistance at Home | The Chinese energy giant Sinopec, which has been buying assets around the globe, has met opposition from shareholders over a $2.15 billion proposed takeover of a Chinese natural gas company, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
A.I.G. Completes $6 Billion Asian Sale | The American International Group completed its sale of a stake in American International Assurance, sending shares of the Asian business tumbling on Tuesday, Reuters reports. REUTERS
G.M. and Peugeot Detail Partnership | Peugeot Citron said it would offer $1.3 billion of shares at a 42 percent discount to its Monday closing price as it looked to finance its alliance with General Motors, Reuters reports. G.M. said it was paying about $423 million for its 7 percent stake in Peugeot. REUTERS
Monster Worldwide Retains Advisers | Monster Worldwide, whose chief executive told investors on Thursday that the online jobs listing company was weighing "strategic alternatives," has retained Stone Key Partners and Bank of America Merrill Lynch as advisers toward that end. DealBook 
El Paso Delays Vote on Kinder Morgan Deal by a Few Days | The El Paso Corporation said it had pushed back the meeting by a few days to allow shareholders to weigh a Delaware judge's criticism of the process that led to the company's $21.1 billion sale to Kinder Morgan. DealBook 
Temenos Prepares to Fight for Misys | Temenos is considering raising its offer for Misys, after rival bidders approached the British software maker, The Financial Times reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the talks. FINANCIAL TIMES
Australian Coal Merger Moves Forward | Yanzhou Coal Mining and Gloucester Coal are continuing with their merger of Australian mining assets, under revised terms, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Banks Give S.&P. the Cold Shoulder | After Standard & Poor's held up a $1.5 billion deal by Goldman Sachs and Citigroup last year, those banks and JPMorgan Chase, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley have been turning to rival credit rating firms to rate commercial mortgage bonds, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Greece's Goldman Deal | From the beginning of its ill-fated deal with Goldman Sachs, the Greek government owed the firm $793 million more than the $3.7 billion it borrowed, Bloomberg News reports. "The Goldman Sachs deal is a very sexy story between two sinners," said Christoforos Sardelis, who oversaw the transaction as the head of Greece's Public Debt Management Agency. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman's Asia Unit Lost Money on Stock Holdings | Goldman Sachs lost $103 million in Asia last year, for the first time since 2008, as the firm's stake in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China generated a $517 million pretax loss, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Corporate Borrowers Come to Market | At least 18 companies sold nearly $20 billion of debt on Monday, for the highest number of borrowers so far this year, according to Dealogic, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Handicapping the Buffett Succession | On his blog, Jeff Matthews makes the case that Greg Abel, chief executive of MidAmerican Energy, is the likely successor to Warren E. Buffett as chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway. DealBook 
A Note of Caution on Central Bank Lending | The infusion of cash from the European Central Bank does not necessarily mean normality has returned to the Continent's banking system, Patrick Jenkins writes in a column in The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
European Lawmakers Propose Curbs on Banker Pay | Members of the European Parliament have proposed that a draft of a law on bank capital should include rules governing pay, as leaders look to curb risk-taking, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
K.K.R. Forms $250 Million Partnership with Chesapeake Energy | Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is teaming up with the Chesapeake Energy Corporation to invest in oil and natural gas projects in the United States, the latest move by private equity in the lucrative energy sector. DealBook 
Wave of European Buyout Debt Set to Mature | European companies that were taken over in leveraged buyouts have about $550 billion of debt maturing over the next five years, according to a study from Linklaters that used Dealogic data, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Ross Named to Exco Board | Exco Resources named Wilbur L. Ross Jr., whose funds own 13.7 percent of the oil and natural gas company, to its board. DealBook 
Education Software Maker to Go Private | Archipelago Learning said it had agreed to be acquired by Plato Learning, which is privately owned, for $291 million in cash, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Singapore's Temasek Said to Sell Stake in Oil Rig Maker | Temasek Holdings, the investment company owned by Singapore's government, raised $261 million on its sale of shares of Sembcorp Marine, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person with direct knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Texas Teacher Pension Buys Bridgewater Stake | The Teacher Retirement System of Texas can now share in the upside returns of Bridgewater Associates without paying the high costs, but it also is betting on the long-term viability of a hedge fund linked to one enigmatic founder. DealBook 
Paulson Fund Slid in February | John A. Paulson's Advantage Plus Fund lost 1.5 percent last month, paring this year's gains to 3.5 percent, Bloomberg News reports, citing an investor update. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Fund Manager Leaves HSBC | Tim Gascoigne, who oversaw a $2.4 billion fund of hedge funds at HSBC Alternative Investments Limited, left the company last month, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Large Hedge Funds Grew Slowly Last Year | Hedge funds with $1 billion or more in assets grew by 3 percent last year, the slowest growth on record, according to a survey by AR Magazine, Dow Jones Newswires reports. DOW JONES
LightSquared Negotiates With Satellite Company Over Payments | Inmarsat, a satellite company that caters to the maritime industry, said it did not know whether it would receive outstanding payments owed by LightSquared, the wireless company run by Philip A. Falcone, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
A.I.G. Deal Improves Prospects for Hong Kong | Bankers say the insurer's $6 billion sale of A.I.A. shares underscores a recovery in sentiment among stock market investors in Hong Kong, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Politicians Expect Facebook Lift | The millionaires that will emerge from Facebook's I.P.O. could wield political influence with campaign contributions this year, following the example of Peter Thiel, who donated to a "super PAC' that supports Ron Paul, Politico reports. POLITICO
Man Suing Facebook Retains Milberg | Paul Ceglia, who claims he is entitled to a 50 percent stake in Facebook, has hired the law firm Milberg, Dow Jones Newswires reports. DOW JONES
Zynga to Buy San Francisco Headquarters | The online game company Zynga plans to buy the 670,000-square-foot building that contains its San Francisco offices for $228 million, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Venture Capitalist Pioneer Talks Taxes, Tech and Facebook | Even as the market remains wobbly and the economy weak, Frederick R. Adler is optimistic about the country's prospects. DealBook 
Redpoint and BV Capital Form Brazilian Venture | Redpoint Ventures and BV Capital's eVentures have jointly begun a new venture capital firm called Redpoint eVentures based in So Paulo, Brazil -- the latest illustration of the country's growing Internet start-up ecosystem. DealBook 
Trying Not to Be the Next Pets.com | With a start-up called PetFlow.com, an entrepreneur has set out to prove that selling pet food online can be a viable business, and has attracted $10 million in venture capital, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Schumer to Meet With Apple and Google | "It sends shivers up the spine to think that one's personal photos, address book, and who knows what else can be obtained and even posted online without consent," Senator Charles E. Schumer said in a letter to the Federal Trade Commission, Nick Bilton writes in The New York Times Bits blog. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former F.D.A. Chemist Sentenced to 5 Years in Insider Case | The chemist pleaded guilty to using confidential information about drug applications pending with the Food and Drug Administration to make nearly $4 million in illegal trading profits. DealBook 
Group of Greek Bondholders Agrees to Exchange | The Institute of International Finance, a group that represents large private sector investors in Greek debt, said 12 members of its steering committee, which includes firms like Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas, would take a loss of as much as 75 percent on their bonds, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
The Volcker Rule's 'Glaring Flaw' | The language of the proposed Volcker Rule is flawed, contends the Economics of Contempt blog, because by not defining proprietary trading "it put the regulators in the position of having to define every form of legitimate trading that banks do." Economics of Contempt
The Mounting Costs of Internal Investigations | Is there any way to cap costs? Probably not, but a bill introduced last year may signal a way for companies to give themselves a mechanism to recover some payments if a former officer or director is found to have violated the law, Peter J. Henning writes in his White Collar Watch column. DealBook 
S.E.C.'s Money Market Plan Meets Resistance | The proposal to regulate the money market mutual fund industry has drawn criticism from within the Securities and Exchange Commission, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Japanese Regulator Files Criminal Complaint Against Olympus | Japan's Securities Exchange and Surveillance Commission said it was requesting criminal charges against individuals involved in the Olympus accounting scandal, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Mets Owners Dealt Setback in Madoff Case | A judge has ordered the owners of the New York Mets and their business partners to hand over $83 million they withdrew from Bernard L. Madoff's company, with a jury set to decide if they need to pay more, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Jury in Stanford Trial Told to Keep Deliberating | The judge in the trial of the accused Ponzi schemer R. Allen Stanford told the jury to try again to reach a verdict, after jurors said they were deadlocked, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Insider Trading Case in London | In the largest insider trading case ever brought by Britain's Financial Services Authority, seven men have been accused of participating in a 1 million fraud, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Dykstra Sentenced to Three Years in Prison | Lenny Dykstra, the former Mets outfielder and financier, was sentenced to California state prison after pleading no contest to grand theft auto and filing a false financial statement, The Los Angeles Times reports. LOS ANGELES TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (75%); MERGERS (75%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LITIGATION (64%)

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); KINDER MORGAN INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (50%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); KMI (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); SNP (NYSE) (50%); SNP (LSE) (50%); 0386 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS L FOSHEE (92%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (73%); JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



227 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Before Hearing on Complaints, Bloomberg Hails Success of Letter-Grading

BYLINE: GLENN COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: New York's mayor lauded the city's new health inspection letter grades for restaurants, a day before the City Council hears restaurateurs' gripes. 

 BODY:
Salmonella? Down. Restaurant revenues? Up. Food sanitary practices? Way up.
These, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced Tuesday, are among the successes of the city's 19-month-old health inspection program, which has brought A, B and C grades to 24,000 city restaurants. 
The announcement, at a news conference in the restaurant Trattoria Zero Otto Nove on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx, came a day before the City Council's scheduled hearing on the new program -- a session prompted by what Speaker Christine C. Quinn has said is a groundswell of complaints from restaurateurs about inspectors, inspections and punitive fines. 
The mayor - speaking with the health commissioner, Dr. Thomas A. Farley, and Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs - announced that "New Yorkers overwhelmingly support the grading system," citing a recent survey by Baruch College at the City University of New York. It showed that 91 percent of New Yorkers approve of restaurant grading and 88 percent consider letter grades when dining, according to a telephone survey conducted in January and February. 
Salmonella infections, an indicator of food-borne illness, fell 14 percent during the first full year of letter grading, bottoming out at the lowest level in the last 20 years, Dr. Farley said. Salmonella rates in the rest of New York State, Connecticut and New Jersey were largely unchanged, he said.
He added that the city's restaurants had made significant improvements in sanitary practices, since more than 72 percent of them earned A grades, up from 65 percent a year ago. "A year and a half into the letter grading program, all of the signs are that it is working just as we had hoped," the commissioner said. And as the economy has recovered, restaurant sales in the city increased 9.2 percent, or $800 million, in the first nine months since grading began, compared with the same period in the previous year, he added.
Mr. Bloomberg said, "Restaurant grades have been good for public health and good for the economy," adding that "New York City is known for its great restaurants and now it will be known for food safety, too." 
The mayor also announced a new free mobile app for iPhones, IPads and IPod Touch devices called "ABCEatsNYC," which lets New Yorkers check letter grades from any street corner in the five boroughs. The app is listed under the title "NYC Restaurant Grading" at the iPhone App Store, and can be downloaded after searching for mobile devices. An Android application will be available in several months. 

        
Health Inspection Hearing Set for Next Week
        
Hundreds of Restaurateurs Sound Off on Sanitary Inspections
        
At City Hall, Street Vendors Protest Fines
        
City Council to Hold Hearing on Restaurant Inspection Complaints
        
Di Fara Pizza Reopens After Passing Inspection

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); RESTAURANTS (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (90%); BACTERIA (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); MAYORS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (88%); SMARTPHONES (87%); FOOD SAFETY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); RETAILERS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); TABLET COMPUTERS (65%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (65%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (63%) letter grades; Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City Council; New York health department; restaurant inspections; Restaurants

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



228 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5041 words

HEADLINE: Live Coverage: Super Tuesday

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: We'll be bringing you data-driven analysis, exit poll information, historical perspective and state-by-state results. 

 BODY:
The biggest day so far in the race for the Republican presidential nomination -- 11 states weigh-in -- could solidify Mitt Romney's grip on the nomination or upend the contest. We'll be bringing you data-driven analysis, exit poll information, historical perspective and state-by-state results.
0:54 A.M. | The Aesthetics of Ohio and Michigan
Mitt Romney's margins in Michigan and Ohio - the Associated Press has called Ohio for Mr. Romney, although The New York Times has not yet - weren't much different from one another: 3.2 percentage points in the former state, and 1.0 percentage points in the latter.
But the benefit of winning a state is mostly symbolic, especially in a state like Ohio which divides most of its delegates by Congressional district and the remainder proportionately. And the aesthetics of Ohio and Michigan were much different, although for somewhat arbitrary reasons.
Michigan counted its vote very quickly, and Mr. Romney led almost the whole way along - often by slightly larger than the 3.2 point margin that he wound up with.
Ohio counted its vote slowly, and Mr. Romney trailed for most of the evening, sometimes by as many as 3 or 4 points.
In Michigan, Mr. Romney's win came by a slightly larger margin than polls expected, but the difference was in well within most survey's margin of error. In Ohio, Mr. Romney leads by a slightly smaller margin than some polls called for, but the polling average was nevertheless very close.
Mr. Romney's narrow win in Michigan came at a time when his campaign seemed to be struggling. His probable win in Ohio came when he seemed to have the momentum and expectations were higher.
In Michigan, there was nothing else to look at except for that state's results - that and Arizona, where Mr. Romney did very well. But on Tuesday night, Mr. Romney had lost four other states by the time that the A.P. called Ohio, changing the context that Ohio was viewed in.
Should any of this matter? In my view, it probably shouldn't. In fact, I tend to find Mr. Romney's one-point lead in Ohio more impressive than his three-point win in Michigan since the latter was his home state - something that is probably worth at least several points to him.
But, factors like these do affect the way that the results are reported upon and can therefore affect the momentum of the race, for better or for worse.
- 
0:32 A.M. | Some Perspective on Romney's Ohio Margin
Mitt Romney's lead in Ohio - currently reported as 12,040 votes - might seem tiny, and it is in any reasonable sense.
Still, at least we're talking about a difference in the five figures, as compared to the eight-vote margin that Mr. Romney initially led by in Iowa.
In fact, the 10,425-vote margin is larger than the entire turnout in one Republican state, Maine, where just 5,585 people participated in that state's caucuses.
- 
0:17 A.M. | In Ohio, Two House Members Go Down in Primaries
The Republican presidential primary in Ohio may still be too close to call, but two incumbent members of the House of Representatives have already fallen victim to Ohio primary voters.
Representative Jean Schmidt has lost to Tea-Party-backed candidate Ben Wenstrup in the Republican primary to represent Ohio's 2nd Congressional District. Mr. Wenstrup becomes the favorite to win the seat; Republican Senator John McCain won 54 percent of the district's vote in 2008.
Meanwhile, in the state's 9th Congressional District, it looks like Representative Marcy Kaptur has ousted fellow Democratic Representative Dennis Kucinich. With over 80 percent of precincts reporting, Ms. Kaptur is leading Mr. Kucinich 60 percent to 36 percent. The two incumbent Democrats had been forced to face-off after Ohio redrew its district lines.
- 
0:06 A.M. | Tiny Turnout in Virginia
All of the vote has been counted in Virginia, and just 265,527 Republicans turned out to vote there in a contest where only Mitt Romney and Ron Paul were on the ballot.
Turnout was about double that, 489,252 Republicans, in the contest there in 2008. And that year was only semi-competitive, since Virginia held its primary after Super Tuesday when candidates like Mitt Romney had already dropped out.
- 
11:54 P.M. | An Updated Cuyahoga Count
News network vote tabulations have been slow to report results in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, where Mr. Romney leads but much of the vote is uncounted.
The Cuyahoga County Board of Elections has more updated results, however. They show 954 of 1,082 precincts reporting, and a Romney lead by 14,662 votes.
The network tally, which had 635 precincts reporting, had Mr. Romney up by 10,425 votes in the county, so he will gain some votes as these additional precincts are added to his statewide totals.
- 
11:42 P.M. | The Santorum Belt
All of the states that Rick Santorum has won so far - North Dakota, Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Tennessee and Colorado - are contiguous with one another, forming a belt that stretches north-to-south through the midpoint of the country.
Although it is aesthetically pleasing to look at this on the map, most of these states have relatively low populations. Mr. Santorum has so far not been able to expand map eastward into the industrial Midwest - although that will change if he pulls out Ohio. He has also been blocked by Newt Gingrich so far in the Deep South.
A state that would appear to be within the Santorum Belt, Kansas, holds its caucuses on Saturday. And Alabama and Mississippi, which vote a week from today, are on the southern frontier of it.
- 
11:38 P.M. | In Ohio, Margin Hovers Near Recount Threshold
In addition to who wins in Ohio, pay attention to the margin. Ohio state law dictates that if the winning margin is less than 0.25 percent a recount is triggered.
Mitt Romney's current lead over Rick Santorum exceeds that threshold, but 9 percent of precincts have yet to report.
- 
11:25 P.M. | Santorum Falling Just Short of Ga. Delegate Threshold
With 95 percent of the vote counted in Georgia, Rick Santorum has 19.6 percent of the vote. The decimal place is important because candidates need 20 percent of the vote to be eligible for proportional delegates in Georgia.
But Mr. Santorum will probably fall just short; most of the uncounted results so far are in DeKalb County, where Mr. Santorum has just 12 percent of the vote so far.
- 
11:18 P.M. | Romney Wins Clermont County
We told you just a moment ago to watch the results carefully in Clermont County to the east of Cincinnati, where only one precinct had reported. The votes are in, and it went for Mr. Romney, who won the county by 900 votes.
Although the margin wasn't huge, that's a much better result for Mr. Romney than in the first areas to report in Clermont, which had given Mr. Santorum a lead. Extrapolations that we were making earlier based on the initial precincts there had assumed that Mr. Santorum would gain rather than lose ground in Clermont - which would have been key to counteracting uncounted votes in Cleveland's Cuyahoga County, which have gone for Mr. Romney so far.
Now that the Clermont results are in, the bulk of the uncounted vote appears to be in areas that will favor Mr. Romney, although there are a few stray industrial and rural precincts left to report here and there.
- 
11:05 P.M. | Cuyahoga, Medina and Clermont
Mitt Romney has closed his deficit with Rick Santorum to about 2,500 votes. Can he get over the top?
He probably would if the only votes left were in Cuyahoga County, home to Cleveland, where Mr. Romney leads by about 7,000 votes so far - but only 40 percent of precincts have reported. That could yield a net of 10,000 votes or so for Mr. Romney. But it's hard to say for sure because Cuyahoga contains both Cleveland itself - where Republican turnout should be light - as well as more suburban areas.
Mr. Romney should also gain votes in Medina County, which has reported very few results.
But apart from Cuyahoga and Medina, much of the results in Mr. Romney's more favorable areas have been counted; the Columbus area is about 90 percent reported and Cincinnati and its suburbs are about 80 percent reported.
One exception in the Cincinnati area is Clermont County to the west of Cincinnati. Just one of 200 precincts has reported there so far, and that precinct voted for Mr. Santorum, but it contains a combination of suburban and exurban areas that could yield mixed results.
Suffice it to say, this remains too close to call.
- 
10:38 P.M. | Gingrich Performing Poorly Outside Georgia
Newt Gingrich notched a big win in his home state of Georgia tonight which was called almost as soon as polls closed. But there is little sign of success for him elsewhere.
In fact, outside of Georgia, Mr. Gingrich is running in third place or worse in all states that have reported results so far. He is behind Mitt Romney in Oklahoma and Tennessee, and has only about 15 percent of the vote in Ohio - not enough to receive proportional delegates there, which would require a 20 percent margin. Nor has he shown any sign of life in the caucus states.
- 
10:18 P.M. | Democratic Vote May Prove Decisive in Ohio
Operation Hilarity, in which Michigan Democrats planned to meddle in the Republican nominating process by voting for Rick Santorum, was not successful, at least not enough to tip the state into Mr. Santorum's column.
But if Mr. Santorum holds on to win Ohio by 1 or 2 percentage points, Democrats may account for at least part, and perhaps all, of the margin.
According to exit polls, Democrats constituted 5 percent of the Ohio primary electorate, and 45 percent of them voted for Mr. Santorum. Just 25 percent voted for Mitt Romney.
That translates roughly into a 1 or 2 percentage point bump for Mr. Santorum.
- 
10:17 P.M. | More Ohio Extrapolations
In our last update, we extrapolated where the Ohio results were headed based on an assumption that turnout would be proportional to 2008, and found a very slight advantage for Mr. Santorum by that method.
A simpler approach is to be to extrapolate out the results based on the percentage of precincts that have reported in each county so far. This method also shows a slight advantage for Mr. Santorum, putting him on pace to win the state by about 35,000 votes or 2 percentage points over Mr. Romney.
Still, this method ignores counties that haven't reported results at all yet. A key one could be Medina County, which is in suburban Cleveland and is reasonably well off - possibly strong territory for Mr. Romney. About 19,000 Republicans voted in Medina County in 2008.
- 
9:41 P.M. | Where Is Ohio Headed?
Rick Santorum now leads Mitt Romney by about 3 points in Ohio with a third of the vote counted. But are the areas that have reported so far representative of the entire state?
One way to get an idea of this is to assume that each county will account for the same share of the state's vote that it did in 2008. This method is potentially more reliable than making extrapolations based on the number of precincts that have have reported in each county, since precincts can vary significantly within a county in the number of voters they contain.
If you weight the 2012 margins between Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney as reported so far by the 2008 turnout in each county, it suggests that Mr. Santorum's margin might narrow slightly, but that he is perhaps the slight favorite to hold on; that method would have him winning statewide by 1.2 percentage points.
Obviously that is very close and there are some problems with this method. A handful of small Ohio counties haven't reported results at all, for instance, and the assumption that turnout will be proportional to 2008 is not necessarily correct. But it looks like Mr. Santorum has the slightest of edges here.
- 
9:32 P.M. | A Warning for Romney in Gallup Tracking Poll?
So far, Mitt Romney is under-performing his polls in most states that have reported results so far, while Rick Santorum is over-performing his - possibly by a wide enough margin to swing Ohio, where Mr. Romney had appeared to have a slight advantage in the surveys but Mr. Santorum now leads in the vote count.
Although the polling data generally showed improving numbers for Mr. Romney over the course of the last week, there was one exception. The Gallup national tracking poll released on Tuesday afternoon showed Mr. Romney's numbers declining by 4 points, and Mr. Santorum gaining 2.
Although only a portion of the Gallup poll's interviews were conducted on Monday, that still postdates the polls that were in the field in Ohio, Georgia, and Tennessee, almost all of which closed shop on Sunday night. Exit polls from Ohio, meanwhile, suggested that while Mr. Romney performed more strongly than Mr. Santorum among voters who decided over the past week, the reverse was true among voters who made a choice just today.
It's possible that some of the momentum that Mr. Romney received from his big wins in Arizona and Michigan faded - as happens fairly often after a candidate gets favorable headlines for several days. A similar situation may have contributed to Hillary Rodham Clinton's upset win in New Hampshire in 2008, which had followed Barack Obama's win in Iowa.
- 
9:37 P.M. | A Democratic Primary of Note
The Republican primaries taking places around the country are not alone. There is at least one Democratic primary of consequence tonight: the first redistricting-induced incumbent vs. incumbent primary is taking place in Ohio. Democratic Representatives Dennis Kucinich and Marcy Kaptur are facing off for their party's nomination to run in the new 9th district.
With 17 percent of precincts reporting, Ms. Kaptur is leading Mr. Kucinich by just over 2000 votes.
- 
9:12 P.M. | The Urban-Rural Split in Ohio
We warned you earlier that the Ohio results would tighten once more rural areas began to report their vote. And they have; in fact, the advantage has now flipped to Rick Santorum, who holds about a 2 point lead there.
So far, Mitt Romney leads Mr. Santorum by about 10 points between Cuyahoga, Franklin and Hamilton counties, where Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati are located. But Mr. Santorum leads by about 5 points elsewhere in the state.
Cuyahoga, Franklin and Hamilton Counties accounted for about 20 percent of the Republican primary vote in 2008, and about 19 percent of the vote tallied so far this year. So the votes we have seen so far are reasonably representative.
- 
8:49 P.M. | Santorum Margin in Tenn. Likely to Exceed Polls
Many networks have already called Tennessee for Rick Santorum. He was projected to about a 7-point win by exit polls there, and leads by more than that, almost 15 points, in the precincts that have reported so far.
Pre-election polls in Tennessee had projected a tighter race, showing both Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich closing on Mr. Santorum and reducing his lead to about 2 points. One pollster, in fact, We Ask America, actually gave Mr. Romney the lead there in its final survey.
It looks like Mr. Romney may underperform his polls somewhat, but the bigger miss may be on Mr. Gingrich, who is not assured of reaching the 20 percent threshold required to win proportional delegates there. Most of the movement in the Tennessee polls had been between Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum, with Mr. Romney's numbers somewhat steadier; it looks like the that late surge did not materialize for Mr. Gingrich, or that Mr. Santorum's advantage in early voting had been too large.
- 
8:48 P.M. | Close Race in Ohio Breaks With Tradition
Whether Rick Santorum or Mitt Romney win the primary in Ohio, this year's Buckeye state contest is likely to be the narrowest Ohio Republican primary since the modern primary system was established in 1972.
The 2012 primary's only real competition is the 1976 contest between sitting President Gerald Ford and former California Gov. Ronald Reagan, which Mr. Ford won 55 percent to 45 percent. After 1976, the next closest G.O.P. primary in Ohio was former President George W. Bush's 21 percentage point victory of Senator John McCain of Arizona.
Ohio Democrats have had a few close contests, including the victory in 1984 by then Senator Gary Hart of Colorado over former Vice President Walter Mondale, 42 percent to 40 percent.
The main reason for Ohio's traditional lack of competition on the Republican side is that before 1996, the state held its contest in the spring, usually long after the fight for the nomination had been settled.
- 
8:32 P.M. | Ohio Margin Should Tighten as Rural Areas Report
Mitt Romney leads Rick Santorum by about 6 percent in Ohio based on the precincts that have reported so far. However, this vote is in some of his strongest areas, and the margin should tighten as more rural areas report.
About 60 percent of the votes tabulated so far are from Cuyahoga, Franklin and Hamilton counties, home to Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati, respectively. But only about 20 percent of the votes in the Republican primary in 2008 was cast in one of those counties, meaning it the current vote count is disproportionately weighted toward these areas.
- 
8:23 P.M. | Suburban/Exurban Divide in Georgia
Newt Gingrich is headed to a sweeping win in Georgia tonight, but there is some question about whether he will win all 14 of the state's Congressional districts. Georgia allocates most of its delegates at the district level; candidates win 3 delegates if they take an outright majority of the district, and they are split 2-1 among the top two finishers otherwise.
The only place where Mr. Gingrich could be vulnerable to Congressional district losses is in suburban Atlanta. There, he and Mr. Romney were virtually tied in the exit poll.
However, the Atlanta metropolitan area sprawls out through most of northeast Georgia, and Mr. Gingrich is running significantly better than Mr. Romney in more far-flung exurban areas, leading him 48 to 26 there, according to the exit polls. A few Congressional districts could be interesting to watch based on their suburban-exurban mix.
- 
8:12 P.M. | Exit Polls Have Santorum Holding in Oklahoma
Oklahoma was one of those states that didn't get polled a lot in the final few days of the campaign - a period during which Rick Santorum was slumping in other states.
The exit polls, however, suggest that Mr. Santorum should be okay there. They have him at about 38 percent of the vote, with Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich at about 26 and 24 percent, respectively.
Although that would be a decent result for Mr. Santorum, it wouldn't be a great one. Oklahoma's delegate rules default to winner-take-all if a candidate hits 50 percent of the vote there, something which had seemed possible for Mr. Santorum in Oklahoma a few weeks ago. With the candidates in the range suggested by the exit polls, however, they will be relatively proportionate.
- 
8:05 P.M. | Romney Favored to Win All Mass. Delegates
Massachusetts' delegate allocation is proportional with one important exception - candidates must receive at least 15 percent of the vote to qualify for delegates there.
An easy bar to clear, right? Not in a state where Mitt Romney is so dominant. There is little vote in from Massachusetts yet, but exit polls projected Mr. Romney's next-closest competitor, Rick Santorum, to about 12 percent of the vote there instead. If the result holds, Mr. Romney would take all 38 delegates from the state.
- 
8:06 P.M. | In Vermont, New Hampshire's Grass Looks Good
The Republican primary in Vermont has been called for Mitt Romney. That shouldn't surprise anyone. Mr. Romney won the G.O.P. primary in neighboring New Hampshire, and since Vermont reinstituted its primary in 1976, after a 60-year hiatus, the state has voted for the New Hampshire winner all but three times.
In 1996, Pat Buchanan won New Hampshire, but Bob Dole won Vermont. John Kerry won New Hampshire in 2004, while Howard Dean, who had served as Vermont governor, won his home state. And in 2008, Hillary Clinton scored an upset win in New Hampshire, but Barack Obama won Vermont.
Although the tops of the states' scoreboards have traditionally matched, more moderate Republicans have done much better in Vermont than they have in New Hampshire. For instance, in 1980 Rep. John Anderson of Illinois, who would go on to run as an independent in the general election, barely lost Vermont to Ronald Reagan, 30 percent to 29 percent. In New Hampshire, however, Mr. Anderson received just 10 percent of the primary vote.
- 
7:46 P.M. | Catholic Vote Could Hurt Santorum in Ohio
Exit polls in Ohio show Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum tied among Protestant voters - but they have Mitt Romney leading, 43 to 30, among Catholic ones. 
This pattern isn't new - it also manifested itself in Michigan - but Ohio has slightly more Catholic voters than Michigan does.
- 
7:39 P.M. | Gingrich, Paul Likely Shut Out of Ohio Delegates
Exit polls suggest that Ohio is too close to call between Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum - although the poll gave Mr. Romney a slight edge. One thing that seems clearer, however, is that Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul will win few if any delegates there.
Ohio is another state that requires candidates to reach a 20 percent threshold in the statewide vote to receive proportional delegates, but the exit polls had Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Paul projecting to the low teens instead.
If the results hold up, the only way for Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Paul to win Ohio delegates would be to win a Congressional district. But if they run 25 or 30 points behind the front-runners, it is unlikely that they will do so.
- 
7:34 P.M. | Santorum Close to Delegate Cutoff in Ga.
Georgia rules require that a candidate get at least 20 percent of the vote statewide to get proportional delegates there. (The candidate is still eligible for Congressional district delegates even if he does not meet this threshold.)
Exit polls project that this could be a close call for Mr. Santorum; they had him tracking to almost exactly 20 percent of the vote in Georgia. He is doing slightly better than that in the actual vote count so far, with 26 percent of the vote, but most of the few precincts that have reported so far are from south and central Georgia and are likely to be stronger for Mr. Santorum than the Atlanta area.
- 
7:26 P.M. | Home State Advantages
Both Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich appeared to enjoy home-state advantages Tuesday: Mr. Romney in Massachusetts, where he served as governor from 2003 to 2007, and Mr. Gingrich in Georgia, where he represented the state's 6th congressional district from 1979 to 1999.
How much did these advantages matter? In Georgia, according to preliminary exit polls, 37 percent of voters said Mr. Gingrich's ties to the state mattered "a great deal" or "somewhat." Mr. Romney's Massachusetts-connection was at least somewhat of a factor for 43 percent of voters.
Georgia has been called for Mr. Gingrich, and Mr. Romney is the overwhelming favorite in Massachusetts.
- 
7:17 P.M. | Can Paul Win Virginia Delegates?
Exit polls - and very early voting tabulations - show a somewhat closer result in Virginia than polls had projected, with Mr. Paul winning perhaps 35 or 40 percent of the vote.
Mr. Paul and Mitt Romney are the only two candidates on the ballot in Virginia, which means that Mr. Romney is tracking to 60 or 65 percent of the vote and a solid win there. Virginia awards 13 delegates to any candidate who wins a majority of the statewide vote, as Mr. Romney is likely to do.
Most of Virginia's delegates are awarded winner-take-all at the Congressional district level, however. Is Mr. Paul close enough to Mr. Romney that he could snag one or two districts? 
Perhaps. The exit poll found that Mr. Paul's strongest region was Eastern Virginia and the Richmond area, where he trailed Mr. Romney by about 12 points in the exit poll. It's possible that Mr. Paul could win one or two of the more rural districts in that part of the state.
- 
7:10 P.M. | No Winner-Take-All for Romney in Vermont
No votes have been counted yet, but CNN's exit poll in Vermont found that both Ron Paul and Rick Santorum were over the 20 percent threshold required to receive delegates there. (Our guess was that this would be true for Mr. Paul but not Mr. Santorum.)
If the exit poll results hold up, Mr. Romney would carry about 8 to 10 delegates out of the 17 that Vermont awards, versus 4 or 5 for Mr. Paul and about 4 for Mr. Santorum. Still, the exit poll sample size was especially small in Vermont, so we should watch carefully as actual results trickle in.
- 
6:59 P.M. | At Intrade, the Primaries Are Decided
There haven't been any actual votes reported from Super Tuesday states yet, but the betting market Intrade has mostly made up its mind. The contract on Mitt Romney to win Ohio's Republican primary is up over $9 a share, which means the market believes Mr. Romney has greater than a 90 percent chance of winning.
According to Intrade, Newt Gingrich has a 99 percent chance of winning the Georgia primary, Rick Santorum has a 94 percent chance of winning in Oklahoma and a 76 chance in Tennessee.
- 
6:46 P.M. | Southern G.O.P. Voters Care About Candidates' Religion
In Tennessee, according to early exit polls, 74 percent of voters said they cared either somewhat or a great deal about a candidate's religion. That figure was also high, 69 percent, in Georgia.
Even by the standards of Southern states, that number is fairly high; it was 60 percent in South Carolina by comparison, for instance.
In Ohio, meanwhile, 62 percent of voters said the candidate's religious beliefs matter somewhat or a great deal, as compared with 56 percent in Michigan.
- 
6:39 P.M. | Ohio Has Been Good G.O.P. Bellwether
Ohio has voted for the eventual Republican nominee in each nomination cycle since the modern primary era began in 1972. It is one of 10 states to have done so; the others are Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, Oregon and Wisconsin.
The most rebellious G.O.P. states have been Alaska, Arizona, Iowa, Massachusetts, Michigan, Louisiana, Nevada and Wyoming, each of which voted against the G.O.P. nominee 3 times in primaries or caucuses.
- 
6:25 P.M. | In Ohio, Exit Polls Show Signs of Voter Indifference
There have been various anecdotal accounts of low turnout in Ohio today, and a result from the exit polls may help to explain why.
In Ohio, just 43 percent of voters said they strongly favored their candidate. Another 41 percent said they liked their candidate but with reservations, while 13 percent said they voted for him solely because they disliked the other candidates.
The 43 percent "strongly favor" figure is the lowest in any state so far, although exit polls have not posed this question to voters in all states. The figure was 63 percent in Iowa, 51 percent in Arizona, and 45 percent in Michigan.
The Ohio figure is also lower than other states which voted today. In Georgia, 56 percent of voters strongly favored their candidate, in Massachusetts 54 percent, and in Tennessee 48 percent.
- 
6:15 P.M. | More Late-Deciders in Georgia
Georgia had shown relatively sharp late movement in the polls, with Newt Gingrich gaining several points in the polls over the course of the past week. And exit polls find there are more late-deciding voters in Georgia than the other states that voted tonight.
Some 31 percent of voters in Georgia made their decision either today or in the past few days, according to the exit polls. That figure is somewhat lower, 27 percent, in Ohio this year, and it was 24 percent in Tennessee.
In Michigan last week, 24 percent of voters made up their minds in the few days before the election or election day itself, according to the exit polls, while 15 percent did in Arizona. The number in Florida was 26 percent.
To find truly impressive numbers of late-deciders, however, you'd have to look toward South Carolina. There, 55 percent of voters decided in the final few days before the election, most of them for Mr. Gingrich.
- 
6:17 P.M. | In Ohio, Fiscal vs. Social Conservatives
According to very preliminary exit poll data in Ohio, 2 in 5 voters described themselves as "very conservative" on fiscal issues while just half that many described themselves as "very conservative" on social issues.
That would seem like unwelcome news for the Rick Santorum, who has focused more on social issues than the other candidates, even criticizing the Romney campaign for focusing only on economic concerns.
The Ohio economy fell into recession faster than the national economy, but has also recovered faster, driven by a reinvigorated manufacturing sector. Statewide, Ohio's unemployment rate is 7.9 percent, below the national rate of 8.5 percent.
Still, the recovery has been uneven, and some pockets in the state are still struggling: 16 of Ohio's 88 counties had a jobless rate of at least 10 percent in December.
- 
6:03 P.M. | Ohio Republicans Once Were Moderate
According to early-stage exit polls, 31 percent of voters in the Ohio Republican primary identified as very conservative, and 32 percent as somewhat conservative. Those figure aren't much different from 2008, when 30 percent of voters said they were very conservative and 35 percent somewhat conservative.
They are significantly different, however, than in the Republican voting in 2000 and 1996, when the Republican electorate was much more moderate in Ohio. In those years, just 15 and 17 percent of Republicans said they were very conservative, while the slight majority of the G.O.P. primary electorate instead identified as moderate or liberal.
- 
5:59 P.M. | Evangelical Turnout Up in Ohio, Tenn., Ga.
The share of voters who identify as evangelical is up slightly from 2008 in both Ohio, Tennessee and Georgia, according to early exit polls.
In Ohio, 45 percent of Republican primary voters identified as white and evangelical or born-again Christians, according to the exit poll. The same figure was 40 percent in 2008. Pollsters conducted before the election somewhat split the difference between these two figures; in the recent Public Policy Polling survey of Ohio, for instance, 43 percent of voters identified as evangelical Christians, although the poll did not specify whether they were white or of another race.
In Tennessee, 71 percent of Republican voters were white evangelicals, according to the exit polls, up from 66 percent in 2008.
Finally, in Georgia, 62 percent of Republican voters were white evangelicals, up from 56 percent in 2008.
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STATISTICS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%) Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; Politics

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



229 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: New York Seeks Waste-to-Energy Proposals

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: To reduce the amount of garbage going to landfills, the city is seeking "the cleanest and latest technologies" that convert trash into heat and electricity.That means conventional incineration is excluded. 

 BODY:
New York Cityis soliciting proposals for trying out new technologies that turn garbage into energy. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced Tuesday that the city was looking for a pilot "state of the art facility" that could handle a maximum of 450 tons of trash per day -- out of a total of 10,000 tons currently in need of disposal -- with plans to double that capacity if successful. The plant, which must be in New York City or no farther than 80 miles away, would be privately built and operated.
 City officials said they were seeking only "the cleanest and latest technologies" that convert trash into heat and electricity and were specifically excluding conventional incineration. Several of these clean technologies, like anaerobic digestion, gasification and hydrolysis, are already in commercial use in Europe and Asia.

Some environmental groups have said that the city should be focusing instead on recycling and reducing the amount trash that residents produce.
Eddie Bautista, executive director of the New York City Environmental Justice Alliance, a network of organizations in low-income neighborhoods, said that many of the plants in Europe and elsewhere operate in countries with recycling rates that exceed 40 percent.
"New York City's anemic 15 percent recycling rate means our municipal waste stream is dirtier, which means higher pollution emission levels," he said. What is more, he said, "local zoning laws tend to cluster polluting infrastructure in low-income communities of color, and we fear that thermal waste to energy represents that next wave."
City officials said the request for proposals requires companies to provide detailed information on greenhouse gas emissions and information about pollution sources in the site's vicinity to help inform the city's evaluation.
Any plan will also be subject to public review, they noted.
The officials also emphasized that a waste-to-energy facility would only be part of a mix of methods to help the city meet its goal of doubling the amount of waste diverted from landfills. 
 "New Yorkers generate more than 10,000 tons of solid waste every day, and too much of it ends up in landfills," Mayor Bloomberg said in a statement. "Using less and recycling more are the most effective ways to address the problem, but this project will help us determine if some of that waste can be converted to safe, clean energy to meet the city's growing power needs." 
Proposals are due on June 5.

        
New York State, a Recycling Reprobate
        
New York Plans Bigger Recycling Effort
        
New York Plans Greener Zoning Rules
        
In Pipeline Debate, Silent Environmentalists
        
New York, Recycling Reprobate, Aims to Do Better

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); WASTE REDUCTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ZONING (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CITIES (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); BIOREMEDIATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%) garbage; Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City; waste-to-energy; Bloomberg, Michael R; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Recycling of Waste Materials; Waste Materials and Disposal; Emissions Reduction; Energy Economics; Politics and Policy

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (76%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



230 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: President Obama's News Conference

BYLINE: JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama holds his first White House news conference of the year this afternoon. 

 BODY:
President Obama held his first news conference of the year on Tuesday. We carried the play-by-play.
Topically, it ranged over a turbulent landscape: Super Tuesday politics, saber-rattling over Iran, gasoline prices, the war in Afghanistan, the economic recovery and contraception. With so much weighty matter before him, the White House chose to use the event to highlight, of all things, some relatively narrow housing policy actions: a recent settlement with banks that will help some veterans recoup their losses on mortgage foreclosures, and a tweak to the refinancing charges on some federally insured loans.
2:01 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Not all Mr. Obama's news conferences have started on time and ended so quickly. This lasted just 45 minutes.
1:59 P.M. | Whither Afghanistan?
On the difficulties of turning over responsibility for security to Afghans so that the American combat role can end in 2014, Mr. Obama says NATO intends to put in place adequate support and move carefully.
The uproar over the mishandling of Korans by American forces has only made it more difficult, he said. But it doesn't mean the United States should think about staying longer.
"I think that it is an indication of the challenges in that environment, and an indication that now is the time for us to transition," on the timetable adopted by NATO some time ago. But he added: "Obviously the violence directed at our people is unacceptable."
Afghans need to understand that their sovereignty is at stake, he said. And it is important not to leave behind a "free-for-all."
"None of this stuff is easy, and it never has been," he said.
1:52 P.M. | Good Luck, Mitt
What would he like to say to Mr. Romney, who calls him the most "feckless" president since Jimmy Carter?
"Good luck tonight," Mr. Obama said referring to the Super Tuesday primaries. "Really."
That got a good laugh.
1:51 P.M. | Immigration Reform
Mr. Obama has emphasized "promises kept" as a campaign theme; now he's asked about his promise to enact comprehensive immigration reform, which has languished.
"This is an American issue," he said, not just an issue for Hispanics. He says he will again offer a framework that "can move the ball forward."
"We didn't get it done," he acknowledges. But the reason is that a bipartisan issue became a partisan one, he argued. "My hope is that after this election the Latino community will have sent a strong message" that they want bipartisan reform.
"I can't vote for Republicans," he says. "We'll see how many Republican votes we need to get it done."
1:46 P.M. | The Women's Vote
Appealing to female voters is about a lot more than contraception or talk-radio diatribes, Mr. Obama says.
On education, on the economy, on fairness, and on children's issues, the president says that he believes Democrats have the upper hand, but women are not single-issue voters.
"Women are going to make up their own minds in this election," he says.
1:36 P.M. | More on Mr. Obama's Policy on Iran
In an article published today, Helene Cooper wrote "the Republican candidates for president have tried to draw stark contrasts between themselves and Mr. Obama when it comes to stopping Iran from getting a nuclear weapon." But as she noted, as Mr. Obama did in his opening remarks, some experts see more similarities than differences in their approaches.
1:44 P.M. | Denouncing Limbaugh, Again
"I don't know what's in Rush Limbaugh's heart," Mr. Obama says about the debate over Mr. Limbaugh's verbal assault on a law student who spoke out in favor of insurance coverage for contraceptives. But "all decent folks can agree that the remarks that were made don't have any place in the public discourse."
"I thought her parents should be proud of her," Mr. Obama said.
Democracy involves debate and argument, but private citizens shouldn't be insulted.
1:41 P.M. | Nobody Likes High Gas Prices
Asked about Republicans who have said he actually wants gas taxes to go higher to wean Americans from fossil fuels, Mr. Obama basically replied: Seriously? No American president wants that in an election year, he said.
But he does want conservation, he said; he does want more efficient cars, which save consumers even more when gas prices are up. Oil imports have been going down, he said.
A president can only do so much to affect gasoline markets, but Mr. Obama said there are tweaks to the refining business, and paying attention to improper speculation as the seasonal increase in gas prices pinches consumers hard. "But we go through this every year," he said. "We've been going through this for 30 years."
1:37 P.M. | Not Quite the Last Chance; But No Quick Breakthrough
My colleague Jackie Calmes asks, "Is this Iran's last chance?" She reminds him that he said nearly three years ago that we were not going to have talks "forever."
"There has been hemming and hawing and stalling and avoiding the issues," Mr. Obama acknowledges.
But he says now the sanctions are imposing a huge toll on Iran's economy and increasing its isolation. That's an argument for yet more time.
Any further talks will be complex, and he doesn't expect a quick breakthrough, he said; and any deal must be verifiable.
1:33 P.M. | Beating the Drums of War Is Just 'Bluster'
As expected, Mr. Obama has heard several questions relating to Iran and Israel. The president is on familiar turf when he talks about Iran; he's used many of the same words for days, saying that there is a window of opportunity for diplomacy to work and that his policy is not containment of Iran, but prevention of it getting a nuclear weapon. But he accuses his Republican opponents of "bluster" in calling for stronger action or direct threats to use military force.
"Those who are suggesting, or proposing, or beating the drums of war should explain clearly to the American people what the costs of war would be," he says. "I am not one of those people."
He noted that Iran had just offered to return to the negotiating table.
"Sanctions are going to be even tougher in the coming months, because they are going to affect oil exports, the central bank," he said.
He denounced "this notion that we have a choice to make in the next week or two weeks, or months or two months."
Again and again, he returned to the idea that as president he needed to think carefully about the consequences of war. "We don't do it casually," he said. "We don't play politics with it." Recalling his visits to the wounded at Walter Reed, the Army hospital here, he said that was a president's burden.
1:29 P.M. | More on the Housing Initiative
Tara Siegel Bernard, one of The Times' business reporters, has more details on the housing initiative that President Obama just discussed.
1:22 P.M. | First, a Few Words About the Congressional Agenda
In his introductory statement, Mr. Obama said he would like Congress to eliminate tax provisions that he says only encourage businesses to ship jobs overseas; he'd like the "Buffett rule" enacted, meaning higher taxes on the richest taxpayers; and he'd like changes in law to make it much easier for many households to refinance their mortgages. But as he's done for the past several months, he is highlighting one change that he can make without Congress: lowering the Federal Housing Authority fee charged with mortgage refinancings. And he's mentioning another accomplishment that's already in hand: a provision of the big banking settlement announced a few weeks ago that will repay some service members or veterans who were improperly foreclosed.

        
Ask the President
        
White House to Host Group of 8 Meeting at Camp David
        
Obama Backs Student in Furor With Limbaugh on Birth Control
        
To Autoworkers, Obama Turns Up Oratory
        
Focus on Social Issues Could Shape Battle for Women

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (57%); GASOLINE PRICES (57%) barack obama; news conference; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JIMMY CARTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



231 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Obama Challenges Republicans on Iran

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: President challenges opponents to make a case to the American people for a military strike against nuclear site, 

 BODY:
President Obama challenged his Republican critics to make a case to the American people for a military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities if they really believe that is the right course to follow, throwing down an election-year challenge to the men who are vying to succeed him and who say that his Iran policy has been too weak.
"This is not a game," Mr. Obama said during a news conference at the White House timed to coincide with Super Tuesday voting in the Republican primaries in a number of crucial states. Mr. Obama gave a staunch defense of his administration's actions to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions and said that tough sanctions put in place by the United States and Europe were starting to work and were part of the reason Iran had returned to the negotiation table.
"The one thing we have not done is we have not launched a war," Mr. Obama said. "If some of these folks think we should launch a war, let them say so, and explain to the American people." 
Mr. Obama's comments followed speeches Tuesday morning at the conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, during which Rick Santorum derided the negotiations with Iran as "another appeasement, another delay, another opportunity for them to go forward while we talk," and Mitt Romney, before the same group, said "hope is not a foreign policy." Mr. Romney added: "The only thing respected by thugs and tyrants is our resolve, backed by our power and our readiness to use it."
Mr. Obama hit back hard. "There's no doubt that those who are suggesting, or proposing, or beating the drums of war, should explain clearly to the American people what the costs and benefits would be," he said, reflecting a belief within the administration and the Obama campaign that Americans, after a decade of war in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, are fed up with conflict if it can be avoided through diplomacy and economic pressure.
Beyond that, Mr. Obama said that administration and intelligence officials - in the United States and in Israel, he said -- believe that Iran has not acquired a nuclear weapon yet, and there is still time for sanctions to force the Iranian regime to give up any weapons program it might have. "At this stage it is my belief we have window of opportunity," Mr. Obama said. 
"And so this notion that somehow we have a choice to make in the next week or two weeks or month or two months is not borne out by the facts," the president said.
He repeated the pledge he made on Sunday when he addressed the Aipac pro-Israel conference, that he would not "countenance Iran getting a nuclear weapon, adding that "my policy is not containment." 

        
McCain Urges Obama to Back Regime Change in Iran
        
Podcast: President Obama
        
Cheney Slams Obama on Afghanistan Policy
        
HuffPo's Question at Obama News Conference Sparks a Media Flap
        
Live Blogging the Obama News Conference

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%) barack obama; Iran; Obama, Barack; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Nuclear Weapons; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



232 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 13399 words

HEADLINE: Super Tuesday Live Coverage

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Ten states vote on Tuesday, and The Times will provide updates and analysis throughout the day, with live coverage of beginning at 5 p.m. Eastern. 

 BODY:
 Ten states vote on Tuesday, and The Times is providing live updates and analysis throughout the evening.
1:30 A.M. | That's a Wrap
Mitt Romney appeared to pull off a narrow victory in Ohio on Super Tuesday but lost several other states to Rick Santorum, while Newt Gingrich carried his home state of Georgia. The candidates have all given their speeches and are heading home, and we are, too. Check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
And don't forget to download the new Election 2012 app, now available on Android, which smartly combines our coverage with the best from political news sites, Twitter and blogs from around the Web.
- 
0:42 A.M. | AP, Networks Call Ohio for Romney
Mitt Romney appears to have won the Ohio primary by a razor-thin margin, according to the Associated Press and television networks, barely staving off an embarrassing loss at the hands of his chief rival, Rick Santorum.
After trailing for much of the night, Mr. Romney moved into the lead in Ohio with a surge of support from the big cities of Cincinnati and Cleveland and their suburbs.
As night turned to early morning, Mr. Romney extended his lead to more than 12,000 votes, leading the AP to finally call the race at about 12:30 a.m. Wednesday morning.
The win for Mr. Romney gives him a psychological boost and prevents Mr. Santorum from regaining the momentum he lost after losing Michigan to Mr. Romney a week ago.
But the victory for Mr. Romney in Ohio was a hard-fought one that once again exposed Mr. Romney's vulnerabilities, including his inability to connect with working-class and very conservative voters.
If Mr. Romney had lost the state, those vulnerabilities would have been magnified. But by winning the state, Mr. Romney will enter the next weeks of the campaign able to brag about the victory.
For Mr. Santorum, the loss is a missed opportunity. A win in Ohio would have fueled a new spurt of fundraising and could have helped him regain a lead in the national polls.
Mr. Santorum did win primaries in Tennessee and Oklahoma - and a caucus in North Dakota - and has pledged to continue his battle with Mr. Romney in the upcoming contests in Kansas, Mississippi and Alabama.
Mr. Romney also won in Virignia, where he only faced Ron Paul, Massachusetts, Vermont and Idaho.
- 
11:49 P.M. | Exit Polls: Conservatism in the Eye of the Beholder 
As the general election approaches, the practical goal of beating Mr. Obama appears to be trumping the ideological goal of electing a true conservative.
Back in January, when caucus-goers in Iowa were asked which one of a short list of candidate qualities mattered most in their voting decisions, 31 percent said that being able to defeat Mr. Obama mattered most, followed by 25 percent who wanted a true conservative. 
Since then, the importance of the practical goal has increased, with 4 in 10 respondents in Massachusetts, Ohio, Georgia and Tennessee saying that defeating Mr. Obama was their priority, while the goal of ideological purity has declined in perceived importance.
Only between 1 and 2 in 10 respondents in these states indicated true conservatism as the most important candidate quality.
Depending on regional predilections, voter views on the most electable or the most conservative candidate appear to differ. In most primaries, voters who chose defeating Mr. Obama as a top priority went for Mr. Romney by wide margins (except for South Carolina). Unsurprisingly, Georgia is an exception with almost half of these voters supporting Mr. Gingrich.
Voters who view true conservatism as the most important goal seem less predictable. In early contests (Iowa, New Hampshire and Nevada), pluralities supported Mr. Paul (37 percent, 41 percent and 38 percent respectively).
In other races (South Carolina and Florida), Mr. Gingrich emerged as the leading "true conservative." In Michigan and Arizona, this title went to Mr. Santorum.
In today's primary races, Massachusetts and Georgia voters interpreted their states' favorite sons as true conservatives (37 percent in Massachusetts supported Mr. Romney, and 57 percent in Georgia for Mr. Gingrich). In contrast, roughly half of voters looking for a true conservative in Ohio and Tennessee supported Mr. Santorum.
Thus, Mr. Romney's electoral prospects appear to be a matter of near consensus among Republican primary voters, while true conservatism seems to be in the eye of the beholder.
- 
11:48 P.M. | 'Won by Surviving'
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio - As the race in Ohio came down to the wire, Santorum aides and supporters who were still lingering in the high school gymnasium here where Mr. Santorum held his election night victory party, said that regardless of the outcome, Mr. Santorum had effectively won, just by coming so close and by forcing Mr. Romney to spend so much money here.
"He's already won by surviving," Mike DeWine, the state's attorney general, who switched to the Santorum camp from the Romney camp, told reporters.
Still, Mr. DeWine admitted that over the weekend, "the momentum did not feel good," because of what he said was a huge amount of negative information about Mr. Santorum being pushed by the Romney campaign, in automatic phone calls and television ads.
Mr. DeWine said that some people had told him, "I want to vote for Rick, but we need to get this race over so I'm just going to have to kind of hold my nose and vote for Romney."
- 
11:41 P.M. | Exit Polls: Ohio Independents 
Tonight's Ohio primary reinforces the state's reputation for being a cliffhanger of a battleground state from cycle to cycle. Mr. Obama won it in 2008, just as President George W. Bush did in 2000 and 2004, and the largest margin of victory among these three races was just 4.5 percent in 2008.
The eventual Republican presidential nominee, however, may have some extra work to do to win the state in November. According to the exit polls in Ohio, more than 4 in 10 voters tonight said that while they liked their candidate, they still had reservations. Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum both shared this group.
And independents may be a tougher group to corral in the general election. In tonight's contest in Ohio, which was open and included about one-fourth of voters who identified as independent, they were less inclined to be committed to choosing the eventual Republican nominee come November. (Only about one-third of independents said they would stay in the Republican's corner.)
By contrast, about three-fourths of the Republican voters said they would stand behind the nominee.
The Ohio Republican electorate is relatively evenly split ideologically. About a third say they're very conservative, another third are somewhat conservative, and the final third are moderate or liberal. Among the very conservative, about 6 in 10 voters strongly favor their candidate. And about 8 in 10 said that they would definitely vote for the Republican nominee.
But, among the somewhat conservative, moderates and liberals, nearly half of the voters have reservations about their candidate. About 4 in 10 of moderate or liberal voters in the Republican primary said that they would definitely vote for the Republican nominee in November. And, almost 2 in 10 of the moderate and liberal voters reported that they would only vote for a Republican if their candidate won.
- 
11:39 P.M. | Exit Polls: Empathy vs. Electability
While Ohio and Tennessee voters consider Mr. Romney the candidate most likely to defeat Mr. Obama in November, Mr. Santorum battles back as the candidate who best understands the problems of average Americans.
According to exit polls, about half of voters in Ohio said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and more than 4 in 10 voters in Tennessee said so - far more than cited for any of the other candidates. Perceived electability has been an important strength for Mr. Romney throughout this primary season.
But voters in Tennessee and Ohio were also asked which candidate best understands the problems of average Americans, and here Mr. Romney faltered.
Only about 2 in 10 voters in each state said Mr. Romney was the most empathetic candidate. Mr. Santorum got a third of voters in Ohio and Tennessee.
These views fueled vote choices. Mr. Romney won a majority of voters who considered him most likely to win in November, while Mr. Santorum won more than 8 in 10 voters in Ohio and Tennessee who said he best understood their problems.
- 
11:34 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Kent, Ohio
Name: David Dumpe
Location: Kent, Ohio
Age: 57
Party: Republican
Occupation: Professor at Kent State University
Most important issue: The economy
Preferred candidate: Undecided
- 
11:35 P.M. | Romney Wins Idaho, Santorum Takes North Dakota, Networks Project
Mr. Santorum won the North Dakota caucus on Tuesday night and Mr. Romney won the caucus in Idaho, according to network projections, splitting bragging rights for the two Western states.
The men had campaigned briefly in the two states in the past week. And each will pick up some delegates.
Splitting the delegates helps Mr. Romney, who has been methodically trying to stay ahead of his rivals as they each try to reach 1,144 delegates.
But by winning in North Dakota, Mr. Santorum earned the psychological boost that comes with winning in another part of the country and denying Mr. Romney another victory.
For Mr. Romney, winning in Idaho will help to push back against concerns that he struggled on Tuesday night everywhere except his home state of Massachusetts, nearby Vermont and Virginia, where Mr. Paul was his only challenger.
- 
11:32 P.M. | Santorum's Success 
With victories in North Dakota, Oklahoma and Tennessee, the Santorum campaign believes it received the help it needed to keep fighting Mr. Romney, the front runner. The strategist John Brabender said the campaign had about $1 million in cash and would begin buying television time Wednesday in Kansas, Alabama and Mississippi - the major contests of the next week.
But the campaign is bracing for disappointment in Ohio as the lead Mr. Santorum has held all night long has dissipated as more urban counties, including Cuyahoga, report more precincts. Asked about predictions of victory from the Romney campaign, Mr. Brabender replied, "They may be right."
Yet Mr. Santorum's success in the heart of the modern Republican Party - among strong conservatives, and in the South - makes it more difficult for the Romney campaign to dismiss Mr. Santorum as a mere irritant. Romney advisers have planned to begin making the case after Super Tuesday that continued efforts by other candidates amounted to assistance to Mr. Obama given the near impossibility for them mathematically to amass the delegates needed for victory.
The campaign still hopes that, by the April 24 contests in states favoring Mr. Romney - Connecticut, Delaware, New York and Rhode Island in addition to Mr. Santorum's home state of Pennsylvania - the apparent inevitability of a Romney nomination will produce strong public pressure on rivals to stop or scale back their campaigns. Mr. Romney still faces a burden of proof in states like Illinois, Louisiana and Wisconsin in late March and early April.
It's "highly likely it will be Mitt, but not a complete lock," said Mike Murphy, a former adviser to Mr. Romney. "Now we go litigate the South next week."
- 
11:21 P.M. | Obama Campaign Is Busy in Ohio, Too
Even as Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum sweated out the returns from Ohio to see who would claim Super Tuesday's biggest prize, the Obama campaign was showing the organizational muscle in the swing state that has the Republican Party fretting for its eventual nominee in the general election this fall.
While Mr. Obama is unchallenged for his party's nomination, the president's campaign had more than 50 events throughout the Buckeye State on Tuesday night, including phone banks, "neighborhood team" meetings and "watch parties" for the televised results of the Republican contests in Ohio and 10 other states, according to a campaign official.
The events in Ohio were coordinated by nine Obama campaign field offices (a 10th office opens in Youngstown on Thursday). And the primary day events were just the latest of more than 5,000 activities - phone banks, voter registration drives, campus rallies and house parties - that have been held in the state since Mr. Obama kicked off his re-election campaign last April, one official said.
The Obama campaign had events in the other Super Tuesday states, too, just as it has had since January in states that have held primaries or caucuses.
- 
11:14 P.M. | The Possibility of a Recount in Ohio
Mr. Romney may win Ohio narrowly. But if it's narrow enough, there may be a recount.
Ohio law says that any statewide race that ends in a margin for the winner smaller than .25 percent is an automatic recount.
Here's the law: "If the number of votes cast in any statewide election for the declared winning nominee, candidate, question, or issue does not exceed the number of votes cast for the declared defeated nominee, candidate, question, or issue by a margin of one-fourth of one percent or more of the total vote, the secretary of state shall order a recount which shall be conducted as provided in sections 3515.04 and 3515.05 of the Revised Code."
For example, at one point in the evening, Mr. Romney had 386,570 votes. Mr. Santorum had 388,973 votes. The difference - 2,403 votes - represents a margin of about .31 percent, just outside of the automatic recount.
- 
10:45 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Savannah, Ga.
Name: Howard Young
Location: Savannah, Ga.
Age: 87
Income: $30,000
Party: Republican
Occupation: Retired accountant
Most important issue: The deficit
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
10:26 P.M. | Romney Takes the Stage
BOSTON - With three Super Tuesday victories already in his column, Mr. Romney took the stage before a loud and excited - but not entirely full - ballroom of supporters to revel in what he hopes will be a night with enough wins to finally catapult him to his party's nomination.
"It's great to be able to go home tonight for the first time in two months," Mr. Romney said, as his wife, Ann, his oldest son, Tagg, and Tagg's family stood onstage with him. "What a great night. Three states now tonight under our belt and counting - we're going to get more before this night is over."
Mr. Romney sought to portray his Super Tuesday victories so far as the momentum he needed to turn his candidacy into his party's actual nomination (not to mention to take the White House in November), but in a nod to the topsy-turvy, this-race-will-never-end primary, Mr. Romney also acknowledged, "And so it will go, day by day, step by step, door to door, heart to heart."
"There will be good days and bad days, always long hours and never enough time," he said near the end of his speech. "But, on November 6th, we will stand united, not only having won an election, but having saved a future."
"It's been a long road getting to Super Tuesday, let me be honest," Mr. Romney said, before congratulating his rivals: Mr. Gingrich (for his Georgia win), Mr. Santorum (for his good night) and Mr. Paul (for his "steadfast commitment to our Constitution").
Mr. Romney spoke to an enthusiastic and energetic crowd, which from time to time drowned him out with its own cheers. When a protestor with a "Veto Romney, Not the Dream Act" sign interrupted his remarks, the crowd drowned out the interloper with chants for Mr. Romney.
"Our campaign is on the move, and real change is finally on the way," Mr. Romney said.
Because Mr. Romney held his speech in downtown Boston, not far from his campaign headquarters in the North End, even more of his aides, advisers and finance team members dotted the crowd. But by about 10:30 p.m., most of the crowd had already trickled out of the ballroom, and only a gaggle of press, and a group of young supporters huddled in a corner under a huge American flag, remained.
- 
10:17 P.M. | Voter Portraits: East Palestine, Ohio
Name: Carol Turner
Location: East Palestine, Ohio
Age: 71
Party: Republican
Occupation: Retired school teacher
Most important issue: Health care and jobs
Preferred candidate: Undecided
- 
10:13 P.M. | Exit Polls: Early Deciders
In Massachusetts, about a quarter of the electorate had made up their minds about which candidate to support by New Year's Day, more than in Georgia, Tennessee or Ohio. Mr. Romney, the former governor of the state, was the choice of about three-fourths of these voters. This follows the trend, though to a higher degree, in previous Republican primaries and caucuses this year of early deciders supporting Mr. Romney.
Less than 20 percent of Massachusetts voters waited until the last few days to make a choice. Mr. Romney fared almost as well with this group of voters, garnering about half of their support. Mr. Santorum was the early choice of less than 1 in 20 voters in Massachusetts, but he garnered about a quarter of the support among the late deciders.
Of these four states, Georgia, which was the home state of Mr. Gingrich, had the fewest early deciders. Only about 1 in 10 voters had decided by the start of the year, before the first of other contests, and about half chose Mr. Gingrich. Although Mr. Gingrich performed nearly as well with voters in Georgia who decided in the past few days, the remaining half of voters was relatively evenly split between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
In Ohio, about 7 in 10 voters had made a decision before the past few days. But, unlike many of the previous contests, Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum split this group, with each getting about 4 in 10. The late deciders in Ohio were also equally divided between these two candidates and in the same proportions.
Mr. Santorum had a slight edge in early deciders in Tennessee. He garnered support from about a third of these voters, while Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Romney each received about a quarter of the early decider vote. Those in Tennessee who made up their minds most recently, though, were divided about evenly among Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
- 
10:00 P.M. | Live Video Broadcast Soon
Up next: Matt Bai discusses the latest developments, Michael D. Shear looks ahead at the general election, Liz Heron wraps up our discussion on social media, and Charles M. Blow talks with Ross Douthat. Watch, live at 10 p.m., here.
- 
9:41 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Smyrna, Ga.
Name: Mary E. Garna
Location: Smyrna, Ga.
Age: 77
Party: Republican
Occupation: Retired banker
Most important issue: Family issues
Preferred candidate: Newt Gingrich
- 
9:39 P.M. | Gingrich Vows to Move South
ATLANTA - "In the morning, we are going on to Alabama," Mr. Gingrich told an enthusiastic crowd celebrating his win in Georgia, some waving Newt-a-Mania signs. "We're going on to Mississippi. We're going on to Kansas, and that's just this week."
Alabama and Mississippi, which hold the next primaries on the calendar on March 13, both figure into Mr. Gingrich's grand strategy for reanimating his candidacy by carrying Super Tuesday momentum into other victories in the South. So does Kansas, which holds its caucuses on Saturday.
But Mr. Gingrich failed to finish strongly enough in the other two contests in the South - Tennessee and Oklahoma - to displace Mr. Santorum as the leading alternative to Mr. Romney.
Exit polls in Oklahoma showed Mr. Santorum with about 38 percent of the vote, with Mr. Romney at 26 percent and Mr. Gingrich at 24 percent.
In Tennessee, where Mr. Gingrich seemed to have closed some of the gap with Mr. Santorum in recent days, he was on his way to a disappointing third-place finish, exit polling showed. 
Mr. Gingrich lumped Mr. Santorum with all the other candidates who had surged earlier in the campaign only to drop out: Tim Pawlenty, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, and Herman Cain.
"And now it's Santorum,'' he said. "You just can't get across to them,'' he said, meaning political commentators, "there's lots of bunny rabbits that run through. I'm the tortoise.''
As Mr. Gingrich visits Alabama and Mississippi in the next two days, he will be shadowed by Mr. Santorum, who is turning his own sights to the Deep South. 
Much of Mr. Gingrich's speech was spent on a recitation of how "Wall Street" money, meaning Mr. Romney's wealthy supporters, had undermined his earlier surges with negative advertising. 
"I hope the analysts in Washington and New York who spent June and July explaining our campaign was dead will watch this tonight and learn a little bit from this crowd and from this place," he said.
- 
9:34 P.M. | Exit Polls: Income
In recent days, Mr. Romney has sought to refocus the campaign narrative on the economy, with a new slogan of "more jobs, less debt, smaller government."
Mr. Santorum has been emphasizing his blue-collar roots, but he has also been talking about religious issues while on the campaign trail, and saying the presidential election is about "more than just a bad economy."
Both candidates have been earnestly courting the middle-income vote, a swing group that has typically voted for the winner in each primary or caucus state so far. Last Tuesday in Michigan, these voters divided between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
In Ohio today, about 4 in 10 voters earning $50,000 to $100,000 said they were supporting Mr. Santorum, and 3 in 10 were supporting Mr. Romney. In Tennessee, these middle-income voters also went for Mr. Santorum, with nearly 4 in 10 supporting him, and about a quarter going for Mr. Romney.
Low-income voters were divided in Ohio, with about a third of those making less than $30,000 opting for Mr. Romney and the same for Mr. Santorum. But nearly twice as many Tennessee low-income voters opted for Mr. Santorum over Mr. Romney
In Ohio and Tennessee, as in all previous nominating contests, Mr. Romney secured the votes of those making more than $100,000.
In Massachusetts and Georgia, the hometown candidates swept nearly all groups of voters, and there were no significant differences among income groups.
The distribution of income for voters in Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee was relatively similar. In all four states, more than 6 in 10 voters came from households with incomes higher than $50,000, roughly about what most Americans make: In 2010, the national median income was $49,445.
Among these four states, Tennessee has the lowest state median household income: $38,686. This ranks Tennessee as one of the poorest states in the nation.
Next Tuesday, Alabama and Mississippi will go to the polls - two states also at the very low end of the income spectrum in the U.S.
- 
9:30 P.M. | And the Rest 
The caucuses in North Dakota, Idaho and Alaska have been overshadowed by the bigger and flashier primaries in states to the east.
But they could be significant before the night is out, both for the delegates they allocate and the psychological push they could give the winner.
Voting will be over in Idaho and North Dakota by 10 p.m. Eastern time, when results will start to roll in quickly.
If Mr. Santorum wins in those two states - after winning in Tennessee and Oklahoma - it will add to the sense of momentum for a campaign that stumbled in Michigan last week.
Mr. Santorum is expected to be strong in the Rust Belt states close to Pennsylvania, where he served as a senator. And on Tuesday, he proved that he could win in Southern states.
Victories in the caucus states would give Mr. Santorum bragging rights in the northwest part of the country as well. In remarks before all the votes were counted, Mr. Santorum bragged about his showing.
"We've won in the Midwest, the West and the South, and we're ready to win across this country," Mr. Santorum told supporters in Steubenville, Ohio.
If Mr. Romney wins in the caucus states, it would add to his delegate lead and temper the losses by Mr. Santorum in the South. Mr. Romney campaigned in Idaho and in North Dakota in the run up to Tuesday's voting.
Mr. Paul also campaigned in the caucus states; he was the only candidate who traveled to Alaska to ask for the state's delegates.
Mr. Paul's campaign has often said that he does better in caucus states, where the passions of the pro-Paul movement can make a big difference by turning up voters at the caucus locations. That may turn out to be true before the night is over.
- 
9:20 P.M. | When the South Splits
What does it mean that split tonight?
Mr. Gingrich easily won Georgia, the state he represented in Congress. Mr. Santorum won Tennessee, appealing to the most conservative voters there. And Mr. Romney won in Virginia, but with a big asterisk: Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum were not even on the ballot.
While most Southern states are reliably Republican enough that they are barely contested in general elections, there have been signs in past elections that weakness in Southern states during the primary season can spell trouble for Republican candidates.
In 2008, Senator John McCain of Arizona lost a slew of Southern primaries on Super Tuesday to Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor. Those victories allowed Mr. Huckabee to stay in the race after other Republicans, including Mr. Romney, dropped out.
And while Mr. McCain went on to win most of the South in the general election, he did lose two Southern states that Republicans had counted on for years when the Republican base was not energized enough to propel him to victory: Virginia and North Carolina.
This year, though, there is no single candidate scooping up Southern states the way Mr. Huckabee did four years ago. Perhaps Alabama and Mississippi, which vote next week, will provide more clarity.
- 
9:17 P.M. | Santorum Awaits Results in Ohio
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio - Mr. Santorum was banking on something of a hometown crowd here Tuesday night to provide a supportive backdrop as he waited for the results to come in from Ohio.
His campaign set up a rally at the high school, just a few miles over the state line from Mr. Santorum's hometown in western Pennsylvania.
No matter that this region is a Democratic stronghold. Or that it is one of the places where Mr. Santorum's campaign failed to file a full slate of delegates.
This town is known mostly as the hometown of Dean Martin, whose voice wafted through the PA system in the gymnasium here ("You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You") as Santorum supporters began to file in shortly after 7 p.m.
More than 400 people are here now, standing before a giant American flag and a big screen tuned to CNN. They periodically give a collective cheer when good news, like Mr. Santorum's win in Oklahoma, appears on the screen.
Mr. Santorum was preparing to appear in person himself momentarily to declare that victory.
Then, he will go back to awaiting the verdict from Ohio, considered a make-or-break state for him.
- 
9:16 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lowell, Mass.
Name: Wilfredo Rodriguez
Location: Lowell, Mass.
Age: 29
Political affiliation: Unregistered
Occupation: Dog walker
Income: $25,000
Most important issue: The economy and student loans
Preferred candidate: Barack Obama
- 
9:04 P.M. | Oklahoma Is Called for Santorum
Mr. Santorum has won Oklahoma, according to several network news organizations, adding a second win for the former Pennsylvania senator.
Mr. Santorum also won in Tennessee, where Mr. Romney's campaign had hoped to win. Mr. Gingrich won in Georgia, the state he represented for years in Congress.
Together, the triple defeat for Mr. Romney could raise new questions about his ability to attract votes in the South in the general election.
Southern states form the base of support for Republican presidential candidates. But exit polls in Tennessee suggested that some voters did not view Mr. Romney as a candidate who shared their values or was conservative enough.
Instead, those voters appeared to turn to Mr. Santorum in Tennessee and Oklahoma.
Those states will provide a needed delegate boost for Mr. Santorum, who is racing to catch up to Mr. Romney's lead. Even with wins in both states, Mr. Santorum will face difficulties because the delegates are awarded proportionally.
That will mean Mr. Romney will earn delegates in Tennessee and Oklahoma even as he lost the overall vote to Mr. Santorum.
- 
9:06 P.M. | Caucus Click: Romance and Returns at Romney Event
- 
8:48 P.M. | 'Lucky Dude'
The former Alaska governor Sarah Palin, who opted not to run for president this year, voted in her state's primary on Tuesday afternoon and declined to tell a CNN crew who she voted for.
Her sudden appearance on CNN came as something as a surprise since Ms. Palin is a paid contributor to one of CNN's rivals, the Fox News Channel. CNN had stationed a reporter, Paul Vercammen, and a camera crew at her polling place in Wasilla, Alaska, with the hope of getting an interview with her.
Ms. Palin said she believed that the competition among the four Republican candidates made "all our candidates better" and called Mr. Obama "the worst choice" of all the candidates. When Mr. Vercammen asked, "Sarah Palin 2016, is it possible?" she hesitated for a moment, then said, "Anything in this life, in this world, is possible. Anything is possible for an American."
Later, when asked about the possibility that she could be drafted at an open convention in the summer, she said, "I don't close any doors that perhaps would be open out there. So no, I wouldn't close that door. And my plan is to be at that convention."
When Mr. Vercammen thanked her for stopping and talking, she responded, "You are a lucky dude that I did!" For a moment, "Sarah Palin" and "Wasilla" were trending terms on Twitter.
- 
8:55 P.M. | Live Video Broadcast Soon
Up next: FiveThirtyEight's Nate Silver provides updates on the latest returns and turns toward his projections for the rest of the primary season, Jeremy W. Peters and Brian Stelter break down the ad wars in the race, Liz Heron answers more questions from Twitter and Facebook, and Charles M. Blow talks with Gail Collins and Ross Douthat. Watch, live at 9 p.m., here.
- 
8:48 P.M. | Santorum Wins Tennessee
Mr. Santorum easily defeated Mr. Romney on Tuesday in Tennessee, a Southern victory that would help him make the case for continuing to contest Mr. Romney for the Republican presidential nomination.
Mr. Santorum's campaign had focused much of its attention in the past week on Ohio. But with Mr. Romney all but certain to capture several other states, Mr. Santorum also pushed hard for wins in the South.
By emerging victorious in Tennessee, Mr. Santorum stopped Mr. Romney in a state where aides to the former Massachusetts governor had thought he might do well. 
Nearly half of voters in Tennessee said Mr. Romney's positions were not conservative enough, and nearly 4 in 10 said they were about right. About half said Mr. Santorum's positions were about right, and a quarter said his positions were too conservative. 
Mr. Santorum won a clear majority of voters who felt that having strong moral character was their most important candidate quality (1 in 4), and voters who selected abortion as their top issue concern (1 in 10). Although he did not win a majority among evangelical voters, this group was more likely to support him than any of the other three candidates. And given their proportion in the electorate (3 in 4 voters) this was enough to help put Mr. Santorum over the top.
Mr. Romney did less well than usual with some of his of the groups that have provided him the most supporters in the past. While Mr. Santorum won less-educated voters, he essentially tied Mr. Romney among the better educated, which has not been the usual pattern.
Mr. Santorum did well among strong Tea Party supporters, but he he also did well among those less supportive of the Tea Party movement.
Like the voters in other states, 4 in 10 Tennessee voters said Mr. Romney was most likely to defeat Mr. Obama in November.
But that advantage for Mr. Romney was outweighed by the appeal that Mr. Santorum held among conservative and evangelical voters. Nearly three-quarters of Tennessee voters said it mattered that their candidate share their religious beliefs, and 4 in 10 said it mattered a great deal - a larger percentage than in previous contests.
- 
8:45 P.M. | Caucus Click: Cheers Build in Boston
- 
8:38 P.M. | Exit Polls: Massachusetts Tea Party
Most voters in the Republican primary in Massachusetts express positive views about the Tea Party movement. This may not seem surprising given that the historical event whose name the movement appropriated took place in the state, but it is somewhat unexpected given the moderate views of the state's Republican primary electorate. Nearly 1 in 4 voters said they were ideologically moderate on most political matters, and about half described themselves as independents. Among independent voters, attitudes toward the Tea Party were equally split between support and neutrality, while a majority of Republican voters were in support. In both groups, only about 3 in 20 respondents opposed the Tea Party movement.
Some commentators attributed Senator Scott P. Brown's success in the 2010 special election to the sentiment of Tea Party voters, yet on economic issues he has also been described as an important Wall Street ally. For Mr. Romney, a similar picture emerged in today's Massachusetts primary. He was able to rally most Tea Party supporters behind him, despite having been described as a "vulture capitalist" by some of his rivals.
- 
8:36 P.M. | Tennessee Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Tennessee Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
8:35 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Concord, Mass.
Name: James Hurd
Location: Concord, Mass.
Age: 37
Political affiliation: Independent
Occupation: Chef
Most important issue: The economy
Preferred candidate: Ron Paul
- 
8:30 P.M. | And Now, a Word From Sarah Palin
Sarah Palin for president in 2016?
As Ms. Palin, the former Alaska governor and 2008 vice presidential nominee, voted in Wasilla, CNN caught up to her and asked.
"Anything in this life and this world is possible," Ms. Palin said. "I don't discount any idea or plan that isn't at this point in my control."
"I would seriously consider whatever would help our country," she added.
Ms. Palin decided against a run in 2012 after toying with the news media for months. On March 10, HBO will broadcast a movie based on the book "Game Change" that portrays Ms. Palin as a difficult candidate who was not knowledgeable about policy matters.
- 
8:25 P.M. | Massachusetts Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Massachusetts Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
8:23 P.M. | Caucus Click: 'Kickers' for Gingrich 
- 
8:21 P.M. | Romney Wins Broad Coalition in Massachusetts
Mr. Romney sailed to victory in Tuesday's Massachusetts primary with a broad coalition of voters in his home state that included strong support from all age groups, education and income levels.
Groups that Mr. Romney has failed to attract in some contests, like very conservative voters, strong Tea Party supporters and evangelical Christians, make up a relatively small percentage of the Republican primary electorate in Massachusetts. But even if they had accounted for more voters, that wouldn't have posed much of a problem for the state's former governor. He won majorities of all these groups.
Nearly 6 in 10 voters in Massachusetts said the economy was their top issue, and they overwhelmingly supported Mr. Romney. The top quality voters were looking for was the ability to defeat Mr. Obama, and more than 8 in 10 of them backed Mr. Romney. But Mr. Romney even edged out Mr. Santorum among those most looking for a true conservative candidate or someone with strong moral character, preliminary exit polls found. 
Massachusetts voters did not appear to punish Mr. Romney for his role in the state's 2006 health insurance law. While nearly half of voters said it went too far, they still voted for Mr. Romney by a broad margin.
Voters were also asked how much Mr. Romney's ties to the state mattered in their vote. Mr. Romney did least well among the 3 in 10 voters who said his ties did not matter at all. But he still won nearly half of them, far more than supported any other candidate.
- 
8:15 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wadsworth, Ohio
Name: Robin Laubaugh
Location: Wadsworth, Ohio
Age: 50
Political affiliation: Republican
Occupation: Mayor of Wadsworth
Most important issue: Jobs
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
8 P.M. | Romney Wins Massachusetts
Former Gov. Mitt Romney has won the primary in Massachusetts, according to exit polls. The victory in his home state brings his total of wins so far tonight to three. (He's also taken Vermont and Virginia.)
- 
7:51 P.M. | Tough Race in Ohio 
Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum on Tuesday were locked in a close race in Ohio, the marquee contest of Super Tuesday's Republican voting and one of the most important swing states in the election this November.
Early results from surveys of voters as they left ballot boxes showed a close race when the polls closed at 7:30 p.m. Eastern time.
As in past contests, voters in Ohio appeared to view Mr. Romney as having the best chance of winning in a general election matchup against Mr. Obama in November, according to preliminary exit poll results.
But voters in the state said they were attracted to what they viewed as Mr. Santorum's strong conservative appeal.
Having defeated Mr. Santorum in Michigan last week, Mr. Romney is hoping to continue his winning streak with a victory in the Rust Belt state, in part to demonstrate his ability to connect with blue-collar, working-class voters.
Mr. Santorum worked the state ferociously in the last week, betting that his background representing the neighboring state of Pennsylvania in Congress would help him stop Mr. Romney's momentum.
A majority of voters in the exit poll results said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate. And electability was the quality that Ohio voters were most looking for in a candidate.
But Mr. Santorum kept the race in Ohio competitive with support from very conservative voters (who made up about 3 in 10 of all voters) and evangelical Christians (nearly half the electorate), groups Mr. Romney has struggled with in some other states.
Mr. Santorum was also backed by more voters who said it mattered to them a great deal that a candidate shared their religious beliefs (about 3 in 10 voters said so), and those looking for a true conservative candidate or someone with strong moral character.
Preliminary exit poll results in Ohio also found voters dividing along age, education and income lines. Mr. Romney was winning the support of older, better-educated and higher-income voters. Younger voters and those in households earning $50,000 to $100,000 were leaning toward Mr. Santorum, while the less educated and those earning less than $50,000 were more closely divided between the top two candidates.
A majority of voters in Ohio said the economy was the top issue to their vote, far outpacing the federal budget deficit, abortion or illegal immigration. Voters citing the economy were more apt to support Mr. Romney. Mr. Santorum won a broad majority of those who cited abortion as their top issue.
- 
7:57 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Lowell, Mass.
Name: Darryl Harbarger
Location: Lowell, Mass.
Age: 47
Political affiliation: Unregistered
Occupation: Disabled
Income: Less than $15,000
Most important issue: The economy
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
7:55 P.M. | Live Video Broadcast Soon
Up next: Michael D. Shear analyzes the exit polls and early returns, Michael Barbaro reports on the evolution of the on-the-ground race, Liz Heron answers more questions from Twitter and Facebook, and Charles M. Blow talks with Bill Keller. Watch, live at 8 p.m., here.
- 
7:45 P.M. | Romney Supporters Celebrate in Boston
BOSTON - As people trickled into Mr. Romney's election night headquarters - which, at 7:30 p.m., was about half-full - a live band played wedding tunes ("Brown Eyed Girl," "You're Still the One") under a large American flag banner in one corner of the room, and gave the crowd live updates from the polls.
The band first interrupted its set to announce that Virginia had been called in favor of Mr. Romney. A cheer went up in the room, even though Virginia (where both Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum had failed to get on the ballot) had always been considered a likely Romney victory.
Next, the singer came on to tell the crowd that Fox News had just called Vermont for Mr. Romney.
"Let's make some noise!" the singer urged, before the band broke into song.
Earlier in the day, after Mr. Romney cast his ballot in Belmont, Mass., he took a dozen questions from reporters, where he said he was "hoping for a win in Massachusetts," where he had served as governor. 
"What happens elsewhere I don't know, but I think we'll pick up a lot of delegates, and this is a process of gathering enough delegates to become the nominee, and I think we're on the track to have that happen," he said.
When asked about Mr. Obama's comments earlier in the day, when the president had playfully wished Mr. Romney luck in Super Tuesday, Mr. Romney joked, "Do you think that was an endorsement?"
"I hope so, but I don't think so," he added. "I appreciate the good wishes and wish him best."
As the ballroom continued to fill up, the band leader again tried to rally the crowd.
"Hey everybody, if you're excited to be here make some noise!" he said. "Mitt Romney is the house somewhere."
- 
7:44 P.M. | Ohio Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Ohio Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
7:39 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Dayton, Ohio
Name: Tad Kiefaber
Location: Dayton, Ohio
Age: 69
Political affiliation: Republican
Occupation: Retired
Most important issue: Defeating Barack Obama
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
7:35 P.M. | Caucus Click: Rushing Romney's Stage
- 
7:16 P.M. | Exit Polls: Massachusetts Economy
Massachusetts is a relatively wealthy state with a comparatively strong economy even in hard times. Currently, it ranks as the state with the fifth highest income, and it has an unemployment rate well below the national average. It also has the country's lowest rate of uninsured among the nonelderly (6 percent as of 2010). This raises the question of how income may influence the views of Republican primary voters on the 2006 Massachusetts health insurance law.
The views of primary voters with family incomes below $50,000 differed from those of more-affluent voters. While about half of the more-affluent respondents in early exit polls stated that the 2006 Massachusetts health insurance law went too far, only about 1 in 4 of the less-affluent voters agreed. More than 1 in 10 of the less-affluent voters stated that the law did not go far enough. With only about a quarter of the Republican primary electorate falling into the lower income category, however, these atypical views on the health care law are unlikely to make a difference.
- 
7:26 P.M. | Romney Wins Virginia
Mr. Romney has won the largely uncontested Virginia primary, a win that was largely expected. Mr. Romney faced only Mr. Paul there because Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum failed to submit enough valid signatures to qualify for the Virginia ballot. 
Both men had joined Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas who also failed to qualify for the ballot in Virginia before dropping out of the race, in challenging the decision to keep their names off. But the courts rejected their efforts. A brief legislative effort to rewrite the rules in the state also quickly stalled.
That left Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich unable to compete for any of Virginia's delegates, or to use Virginia to demonstrate their potential strength in an important swing state in the general election.
For Mr. Romney, the victory in Virginia is a critical part of his strategy to remain in the lead when it comes to the accumulation of delegates. Depending on the final count, Mr. Romney could end up winning all of the Virginia's 49 delegates.
That would make it difficult for Mr. Santorum or Mr. Gingrich to catch up to Mr. Romney. Many states allocate delegates proportionally, making it hard for any one candidate to capture a large chuck of delegates at one time.
Mr. Paul had hoped to increase his share of the vote in Virginia, the first two-man contest of the Republican race. He made appearances in the state and his supporters put up signs along Virginia's roadways.
But Mr. Romney's campaign had pushed to increase his share of the vote by capturing voters that normally have gone to Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum.
- 
7:15 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Oklahoma City
Name: Sylvia Morales
Location: Oklahoma City
Age: 62
Income: Unknown
Party: Republican
Occupation: Retired/Community Volunteer
Most important Issue: Economy
Preferred Candidate: Mitt Romney, or any Republican to get Obama out of office
- 
7:08 P.M. | Georgia Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Georgia Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
6:58 P.M. | Gingrich Takes Georgia, Exit Polls Say
Mr. Gingrich has won his home state of Georgia, according to preliminary exit polls, giving him an early Super Tuesday victory in a state he had promised to win.
Mr. Gingrich had bet his campaign on winning in Georgia, which he represented for years in Congress. The former House speaker campaigned for several days in the state and had hinted that it was a must-win for him to continue in the presidential contest.
"I think we'll carry Georgia decisively," he said in a short interview Tuesday morning before taking a charter flight to Alabama. "I think our margin here will be four or five times the size of Romney's margin in Michigan. I think we'll get most of the delegates here."
According to early exit-poll returns, Mr. Gingrich won across nearly all groups of voters. His strongest support came from older voters, those without a college degree, the very conservative, strong Tea Party supporters, rural voters, white evangelical Christians - he won more than half of each of these groups.
Mr. Romney was viewed in Georgia as the most electable in the fall; 40 percent of voters said Mr. Romney would win in the general election, compared with about a third who said Mr. Gingrich would.
But Mr. Gingrich appeared to be more in sync with the views of Georgia voters. Two-thirds said Mr. Gingrich's positions were just right, while more than half said Mr. Romney's positions were not conservative enough. Nearly a third said Mr. Santorum's positions were too conservative.
Now, Mr. Gingrich has pledged to take his campaign to Alabama and Mississippi, which will hold contests this month. He has said his campaign would do well throughout the South.
If Mr. Gingrich had lost the state, it would have been difficult for him to continue. As it is, Mr. Gingrich has struggled to raise money and grab media attention in a race that has shifted toward Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
But Mr. Gingrich has had the support of Sheldon Adelson, a billionaire casino magnate, who has donated millions to the super PAC that is backing Mr. Gingrich's campaign. That has kept Mr. Gingrich in the hunt for delegates and support.
- 
6:52 P.M. | Exit Polls: Age of the Voters
According to preliminary exit poll results, the age of the voters in today's primaries in Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee is largely similar to that of the previous Republican contests this year.
Voters younger than 30 continue to make up the smallest age group in the Republican electorate. In all four of these states, about 1 in 10 voters were under 30. This is about the same as in the other 2012 primaries.
The largest age group, again in all four states and as it was in earlier contests, was made up of those ages 45 to 64. This group made up nearly half of the electorate.
People 65 years or older make up the second largest demographic group. In Georgia, Ohio and Tennessee, they made up fewer than 3 in 10 voters. This is a similar proportion as voters in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Michigan and Arizona.
Among these four states, Massachusetts seniors had a slightly larger share of today's electorate. Almost 4 in 10 of voters were 65 years or older, almost the same proportion as those voting in Florida and Nevada this year.
- 
6:47 P.M. | Voter Portraits: East Palestine, Ohio
Name: Jim Ostick
Location: East Palestine, Ohio
Age: 61
Party: Republican
Occupation: Minister
Most important issue: Jobs and immigration
Preferred Candidate: Rick Santorum
- 
6:39 P.M. | Live Video Broadcast Soon
Coming at 7 p.m.: Jeff Zeleny takes a broad look at how the political landscape will change after today's results, Nick Confessore looks at expectations in the polls, Liz Heron answers some questions from Twitter and Facebook and Charles M. Blow talks with Gail Collins.
- 
6:36 P.M. | Exit Polls: Gas Prices
In Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee, voters overwhelmingly cited gas prices as a factor in their primary vote choice today. But only 1 in 10 across those states cited it as their most important factor. 
Over the past month, gas prices have risen by 6 percent in Georgia, Massachusetts and Tennessee and by 8 percent in Ohio. The Republicans candidates for president have been using the increases, with the current national average of gas at $3.72 a gallon for regular, as a way to attack Mr. Obama's economic record. 
In Georgia, the average price for gas is $3.70, and about three-fourths of the voters reported that gas prices were one of several important factors. 
Gas prices in Massachusetts, at $3.74 a gallon, are also close to the national average. In today's primaries, about 7 in 10 voters in Massachusetts said that gas prices were one of the important factors for their decision.
Ohio's gas prices are also at $3.74 a gallon for regular. Similarly, about 7 in 10 voters said it was an important factor.
Tennessee, of these four states, had the lowest average gas price, at $3.59 a gallon. This is near the nationwide lowest, which is in Wyoming at $3.21 a gallon. But Tennessee's voters - three-fourths of them called it important.
- 
6:33 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Savannah, Ga.
Name: Ben Crystal
Location: Savannah, Ga.
Age: 41
Party: Republican
Occupation: Contributing editor for Personal Liberty Digest
Most important issue: The preservation of liberty above politics
Preferred Candidate: Ron Paul
- 
6:16 P.M. | The Importance of Ohio
Few swing states are more important in general elections than Ohio, but few are tougher to read politically these days - as Mr. Romney discovered last year when he seemed to waffle on the effort by Gov. John R. Kasich to and his fellow Ohio Republicans to curb the collective bargaining rights of public-sector workers.
The political pendulum has been swinging wildly there of late. Ohio was fiercely contested in 2008: Senator John McCain chose Dayton to introduce his running mate, Sarah Palin, to the world, but President Obama ended up winning the state. Just two years later, though, Ohioans turned their Democratic governor out of office and replaced him with Mr. Kasich, a former congressman.
Then Mr. Kasich signed a law rolling back the collective bargaining rights of government workers, inciting a heated referendum campaign to repeal it.
Visiting Ohio last fall, Mr. Romney seemed to suggest he was neutral on the anti-union measures ("Those are up to the people of Ohio"), even though he had visited a call center where volunteers were urging voters to support the law in the referendum. After Mr. Romney was attacked by Republican rivals as a flip-flopper, he announced that he fully supported the anti-union law and said he had been trying to avoid taking a position on other ballot issues.
In any case, Ohioans overwhelmingly voted to repeal the law in November. Democrats were buoyed by the repeal, saying that Republicans had overreached by trying to curb bargaining rights, and that they expect the state to return to the Democratic fold this November. Republicans, who are now locked in a bitter battle over control of their state party, believe they will be able to hold on to their gains. And what does the polling suggest? It is unclear. The approval rating of Mr. Kasich, who did not endorse any presidential candidate in today's primary, was only 44 percent in a survey released last week by the Ohio Poll. But Mr. Obama's approval rating in the state was not much higher: it stood at 47 percent.
- 
6:29 P.M. | Romney Returns Home
BELMONT, Mass. - Heading home to Boston after two months on the campaign trail put Mr. Romney in such a good mood that before his plane left for his home state of Massachusetts, he headed to the back of his private charter to chat with the press.
"Oh, boy, we're headed home," Mr. Romney said. "This is nice! It's been a couple of months, so we're looking forward to finally being home, sleeping in our own bed tonight." 
In a nearly 25-minute, largely off-the-record conversation with his traveling press corps, Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, talked about his favorite birthday dinner (meatloaf cakes) and what it was like to visit Kid Rock at his Michigan home before the state's primary (more white picket fences than you might expect).
Mr. Romney, who said he did not get nervous on primary days, said he had a meal waiting for him as soon as he got home.
"My son sent me an e-mail, Tagg sent an e-mail, said they had cooked us some marsala chicken and asparagus and mashed potatoes that they'd bring by the house and feed us dinner," Mr. Romney said. "We have 45 minutes and then we're going downtown."
But, before he could gobble down some sustenance before what he hoped was a big primary night for himself, Mr. Romney made a stop at the polls to vote.
At the polling station, after he had filled out his ballot, Mrs. Romney walked back to stand beside him. He opened his manila folder to show her his ballot, and they both laughed.
"You might guess who I might have voted for," Mrs. Romney said with a laugh, when it was her turn to deposit his ballot. "I did take a Republican ballot, I did."
- 
6:23 P.M. | Exit Polls: Evangelicals and Tea Party Supporters
Mr. Romney has struggled among very conservative voters, evangelical Christians and strong Tea Party supporters in some of the previous states. While he won last week's Michigan primary, those groups preferred Mr. Santorum, helping to keep the race close there.
It will be worth a close watch to see how the candidates do with those voters today. How much of the electorate they make up in each state could be crucial. Out of Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee, preliminary exit polls find Tennessee and Georgia with the largest portion of very conservative voters (accounting for about 4 in 10 voters in each state) and evangelical Christians (two-thirds of voters in Georgia and more than 7 in 10 in Tennessee).
In Ohio, about 3 in 10 voters describe themselves as very conservative, and nearly half are evangelical Christians. These groups account for a far smaller percent of voters in Massachusetts.
Of those four states, Georgia has the largest portion of voters who strongly support the Tea Party movement - about 4 in 10. About a third of voters in Tennessee and 3 in 10 in Ohio strongly support it, while 2 in 10 in Massachusetts do.
- 
6:20 P.M. | Exit Polls: Ohio's Economic Woes 
Despite recent employment gains in the Buckeye State, more than 9 in 10 Ohio voters said they were worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years, of which nearly three-quarters of voters said they were very worried.
Unemployment in Ohio is currently at 7.7 percent, the same as at the time of the 2008 presidential election, and now lower than the national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent. Unemployment was at 9.6 percent at the time of the mid-term elections in November 2010. During the recession, unemployment peaked at 10.6 percent for seven months, from July 2009 to January 2010.
For voters in Ohio, the economy clearly outweighed social issues, with nearly 6 in 10 saying the economy was the most important issue in deciding whom to vote for today, according to early exit-poll results. About 1 in 10 voters said abortion was the issue that mattered most to their vote.
More than a third of Ohio primary voters said they were angry with the way the federal government was working, and about half of Ohio primary voters said they were dissatisfied. With that level of government dissatisfaction, it was not surprising that nearly two-thirds of Ohio voters said that working in business was better preparation for serving effectively as president. More than a quarter cited working in government as better preparation.
- 
6:19 P.M. | Voter Portraits: West Bridgewater, Mass. 
Name: John Rea
Location: West Bridgewater, Mass.
Age: 47
Political affiliation: Unregistered
Occupation: Deputy sheriff
Income: $60,000
Most important issue: The economy
Preferred candidate: Rick Santorum
- 
6:12 P.M. | Winning the Air Wars in Ohio
The votes have yet to be counted in Ohio, but by one measure, the race is already decidedly lopsided.
Spending on television advertising has been dominated by Mr. Romney and the super PAC supporting him, Restore Our Future. Together, they have spent close to $3.5 million on broadcast advertising in Ohio, according to Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group. Of that, $1 million came from the Romney campaign; the remaining amount came from the super PAC.
In all, that gives Mr. Romney a spending average of about three to one. Though the totals do not reflect spending on cable and radio, where Mr. Romney has also had a considerable presence, the numbers are telling.
The super PACs supporting Mr. Obama, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum have all been running commercials in Ohio that have been highly critical of Mr. Romney. The American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees is also broadcasting an ad of its own. But their spending, according to Kantar Media, totals about $1 million.
The data also reveal how negative the air war in Ohio has been. When Kantar Media analyzed the commercials by tone - accounting for positive messages and negative ones - they found that attack ads far outnumbered positive ones.
Of the six groups and campaigns on the air in Ohio, four were running only negative ads. The Romney campaign and its super PAC were the only ones to run a positive ad. In both cases, the negative ads were broadcast far more often than their positive ones.
When all the presidential campaign commercials that have been broadcast through Tuesday are added up (more than 8,500), the numbers show that positive commercials accounted for just 981 of them.
The Romney campaign's commercials were 87 percent negative and 13 percent positive. The Romney PAC's were 84 percent negative and 16 percent positive.
- 
6:03 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Oklahoma City
Name: Vincent Johns
Location: Oklahoma City
Age: 65
Party affiliation: Republican
Occupation: Docent at the Science Museum Oklahoma
Most important issue: The national debt
Preferred Candidate: Newt Gingrich
- 
5:49 P.M. | Merci Beaucoup?
Just what Mr. Obama needs.
Mr. Romney likes to say that Mr. Obama wants to turn the United States into a "European-style welfare state," a charge that the president's aides shrug off as silly.
So the endorsement on Tuesday by Nicolas Sarkozy, the president of France, may not have been exactly what Mr. Obama's Chicago-based re-election team was hoping for.
In a television interview, Mr. Sarkozy expressed the hope that Mr. Obama, in a second term as president, will work to restart negotiations between Israel and Palestinians. In saying so, Mr. Sarkozy explicitly said he hoped Mr. Obama would be re-elected.
"There is also a presidential election in the United States; President Obama, who is a very great president, won't take the initiative before he's re-elected - and I hope he will be - but there's a place for France," Mr. Sarkozy said, referring to France's role in helping to bring peace to the region.
Mr. Sarkozy is himself facing re-election in France this spring. As The Times's Helene Cooper and Steven Erlanger wrote last year, Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Obama had a somewhat tense relationship, but appear to be getting closer.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Sarkozy sat for a rare television interview in France late last year and stood side-by-side for a news conference at an economic summit meeting. Mr. Obama "gets a kick out of him," one official said of Mr. Sarkozy last year.
But given Mr. Romney's tendency to criticize Europe - and the Republican Party's long-standing critique of anything "French" - it may be some time before Mr. Obama's campaign rushes out with a news release touting the fact that Mr. Sarkozy called him a "very great president."
We'll be waiting.
- 
5:57 P.M. | Exit Polls: Notes From Georgia
More than one-third of Georgia's primary voters said that Mr. Gingrich's ties to the state, as a former resident and former United States representative, mattered in their choice of candidate.
The most important issue in the state was the economy. In particular, four-fifths of primary voters said the rise in gas prices (up 6 percent in Georgia since last month) was an important factor in choosing a candidate. By comparison, in the 2008 Republican primary in Georgia, only two-fifths chose the economy as the most important issue. By a two-to-one margin, voters in Georgia also said they believed that experience in business better prepares a candidate to serve as president than experience in government.
In choosing electability as their top candidate quality, voters gave a slight edge to Mr. Romney over Mr. Gingrich in determining who could best achieve that goal.
- 
5:43 P.M. | What Happens Next
When the voting ends tonight in the Republican primary, get ready for ... a pause.
Well, not a pause, exactly. There will still be contests during the rest of March. Alabama and Mississippi will hold Republican primaries (Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum are headed there next.) Voters will cast ballots in Illinois and Louisiana. And a series of small states and territories will hold caucuses.
But the intensity of the Republican race - the mad scramble for delegates and the push for momentum - won't pick up again until April, when big-state primaries resume.
That makes the next three weeks a potentially dangerous time for Mr. Romney. If he stumbles in the voting tonight, especially in Ohio, it could be weeks before he is in a position to make another big statement about his ability to win.
On the other hand, a big win by Mr. Romney could help silence his doubters. And with few big contests in March, his rivals would have little hope of significantly changing the narrative until April.
The slower pace will also give the candidates a chance to recharge their war chests and to rest a little before the spring.
- 
5:49 P.M. | Exit Polls: Voters Value Electability
As has been the case in all the contests so far, Republican primary voters in Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee said the quality they were looking for most in a candidate was his ability to beat Mr. Obama in November. 
By far, voters in these primary states chose electability over someone who was a true conservative, someone with strong moral character or someone with the right experience, preliminary exit polls found.
Nearly half of voters in Georgia said electability mattered most to them, as did about 4 in 10 voters in Ohio and Massachusetts and nearly as many in Tennessee.
Voters who cared most about a candidate's electability have supported Mr. Romney in all previous states except South Carolina. Mr. Santorum did especially well in last week's Michigan primary among those most wanting a true conservative candidate or one with strong moral character.
- 
5:49 P.M. | Voter Portraits: McDonald, Tenn.
Name: Walter McGill
Location: McDonald, Tenn.
Age: 67
Party: Republican
Occupation: Carpenter
Most important issue: Jobs
Preferred Candidate: Rick Santorum
- 
5:44 P.M. | Obama Engages
Mr. Obama has a message just for Mr. Romney: "Good luck."
The sarcasm-laced one-liner came during a news conference by the president even as Republicans in 10 states were casting ballots. It was the latest evidence of Mr. Obama's growing willingness to engage his likely rivals, even if just indirectly. 
For most of last year, Mr. Obama left it to his campaign staff members and the Democratic National Committee to defend his policies and challenge Republican dogma. But in the last several weeks, the president has taken a much more direct role.
At rallies, he refers to "some politicians" who argue that the federal government shouldn't have bailed out the auto industry. In Tuesday's news conference, Mr. Obama took aim at the increasingly hawkish comments about Iran coming from the Republican presidential candidates.
"If some of these folks think we should launch a war, let them say so, and explain to the American people," Mr. Obama said.
In most cases, Mr. Obama still does not name his potential opponents. But it's hardly unclear who he's talking about. And as the Republicans move closer to choosing a nominee, Mr. Obama is showing flashes of the combative rhetoric that was a daily part of his 2008 campaign.
That was on display last week during a speech to the United Auto Workers. He mocked his rivals who "talk about values all the time," saying that "hard work, that's a value." And he chided the Republicans for their stand on unions, quoting Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts as saying "What is it about working men and women they find so offensive?"
During the news conference, a reporter asked Mr. Obama about Mr. Romney's sometimes-withering criticisms. "Mitt Romney has criticized you on Iran and said hope is not a foreign policy," the reporter said. "He also said that you are America's most feckless president since Carter."
"Yeah," Mr. Obama said.
"What would you like to say to Mr. Romney?" the reporter asked.
"Good luck tonight," he said.
"No, really," another reporter said.
Mr. Obama answered: "Really."
- 
5:36 P.M. | Exit Polls: What to Watch For
The exit poll results are beginning to trickle in, and we'll be watching surveys from several states, where voters are still worrying about the economy, rising gas prices and sometimes, even about the candidate for whom they voted.
For starters, we'll be zeroing in on exit polls taken through interviews with voters in four major states with primaries, Ohio, Georgia, Tennessee and Massachusetts.
(Edison Research of Somerville, N.J. is not conducting exit polls at any of the caucuses going on in Idaho, North Dakota, Wyoming or Alaska.) Other states with exit poll surveys are Vermont, Virginia (where only Mr. Romney and Mr. Paul are on the ballot) and Oklahoma.
And even before the polls begin to close, with Virginia, Vermont and Georgia at 7 p.m., and Ohio at 7:30 p.m., we'll have preliminary exit results that will give us a portrait of voters in several of these states. And while we pay close attention to trends in income, education and religious leanings, for example, another important indicator in many states has been gaining ground, in and outside of the exit surveys.
That's early voting, something campaigns have become increasingly organized about, and something we in the news media have been monitoring. Pre-primary polls have had to take that into account, as have the exit surveys.
Ohio and Tennessee both have early voting. Before today, Mr. Romney's organizational muscle seemed to be giving him an advantage with that part of the electorate. But pre-primary polls indicate that Mr. Santorum may also be scooping up growing numbers of early voters in Ohio and Tennessee. The exit polls in both states include a telephone poll of early voters. 
Ohio, as a major battleground state in so many presidential elections that it's hard to remember when it wasn't, promises to be a rich minefield of Republican voter sentiment. In some pre-primary polls, like those involving Quinnipiac University, which has routinely been polling in the state, and NBC News/Marist over the weekend, Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum were so close among likely Republican voters that tonight's outcome is guaranteed to be a closely watched election. 
Much of the outcome may be attributed to voters' feelings about the economic recovery, because voters across many regions have cited the economy as their most important concern in many polls. The state's jobs situation is indeed improving, and unemployment is below the national average. But some voters are fraught with worry - some of the pre-primary polls indicated that a bare majority of voters in Ohio overall, if not more, fear that the economy will stay the same, not get better or worse.
Drilling down into Ohio's Republican primary electorate (and it's open to independents or Democrats) will be even more interesting. Mr. Santorum is from the neighboring state of Pennsylvania, and some of its economic and demographic characteristics carry over into Ohio. The post-industrial, post-Rust Belt, post-recession economy spills across state lines, and Mr. Santorum has tried, and sometimes succeeded, to draw the lower blue-collar or working-class voters into his corner.
Mr. Romney has usually taken the upper income levels, but he also captured middle income voters in other states like Florida and Nevada. And in Michigan, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney split the middle-income vote.
Georgia, Mr. Gingrich's home state, has the biggest pool of delegates up for grabs, and Mr. Gingrich, in pre-primary polls, is favored there. Georgia and Tennessee also paint a portrait of the Southern states that have been Republican strongholds, and their exit polls tonight will offer us a hint of where Mr. Romney may be stronger or weaker and where he needs to shore up his support.
Tennessee and Georgia will also provide a solid portrait of religious Republican conservative leanings, demographics that have proved for Mr. Romney across many early states.
And as for Tennessee, we'll also be watching the Tea Party movement's strength there - it had been strong in some other states earlier in the season. 
Let's not forget the gender gap questions. Given the culture wars of late, especially on the discussions of contraceptive insurance coverage, we're often asked if there are shifts in the way women and men are voting. So far, it hasn't been that discernible in the Republican field; as the issue erupted - Michigan perhaps lent us a clue, when Catholic women sided more for Mr. Romney. 
But new pre-primary polls in Ohio split the divide, in one, Mr. Romney had a slight advantage, in another Mr. Santorum had a lead among Republican women. It's probable that the issue hasn't settled enough - or that the two leading candidates aren't that far apart on Obama policies regarding insurance coverage for birth control, and that voters are not focusing on that issue.
- 
5:39 P.M. | What's on Tonight
Coverage of the Super Tuesday primaries will blanket television news networks and news Web sites on Tuesday. The countdown clocks are already up and running on CNN and the Fox News Channel.
But the broadcast networks will have sharply less coverage than they did on the same super-primary day in 2008, in part because only one major party is nominating a president this year, instead of two.
NBC will have an hourlong special report at 10 p.m., anchored by Brian Williams, just as in 2008. But CBS, which had two hours of special coverage back then, and ABC, which had three hours, will not have any hours of prime-time coverage this year.
Instead, Scott Pelley of CBS and Diane Sawyer and George Stephanopoulos of ABC will anchor brief updates in between the regularly scheduled Tuesday night shows on those networks. The Spanish-language Univision will also have updates in between its shows.
ABC will also devote all of "Nightline" to the primary night, and it will produce four hours of live coverage on the Internet for its Web site and for its partner, Yahoo. Amy Walter and David Chalian will host online coverage.
"PBS NewsHour" will produce a half-hour special about the primaries at 11 p.m., and will follow up online with a more informal discussion of the results on PBS.org at 11:30 p.m.
On cable, MSNBC will start its special report at 6 p.m.; CNN, at 7 p.m.; and Fox News Channel, at 8 p.m. And they'll keep going until the results are in. CNN will end the night with Anderson Cooper, who will anchor a special edition of his newscast "360" at 1 a.m.
On Current TV, Keith Olbermann will host from 8 to 11 p.m. That channel's newest host, Jennifer Granholm, will then come on for an hour. On HDNet, Dan Rather will anchor starting at 7 p.m. and until the results are known.
Politico will start a live Super Tuesday show on its Web site at 6:30 p.m., hosted by Jim VandeHei, Maggie Haberman, Mike Allen and Scott Thuman. The special report will be simulcast by one of C-SPAN's cable channels, Politico said in a news release.
The Wall Street Journal, too, will have three hours of live coverage, hosted by John Bussey and Simon Constable beginning at 7 p.m.
For the first time in this election cycle, The New York Times will also have live video programming on a primary night. The Times will produce newscasts that are roughly 20 minutes long at the top of each hour from 7 to 10 p.m. Megan Liberman will host the news segments, and Charles M. Blow will host the Op-Ed segments.
Glenn Beck's Internet network, GBTV, is also producing special coverage of the primary night, with a two-hour edition of its newscast, "Real News From the Blaze," at 7 p.m. and a "Super Tuesday post-game report" at 9 p.m.
- 
5:32 P.M. | Have a Question? Ask Us on Twitter and Facebook
Liz Heron, a social media editor, will be taking your questions via Twitter and Facebook and discussing them with representatives from the political desk during the live broadcasts tonight, beginning at 7 p.m. To submit a question, create a Twitter post with the hashtag #asknyt, or post a question on Facebook.com/nytimes.
- 
5:19 P.M. | Voter Portraits: West Bridgewater, Mass.
Name: Kimberly Barter
Location: West Bridgewater, Mass.
Age: 50
Political affiliation: Democrat
Occupation: Clerk at the Asack Turkey Farm
Income: $36,000
Most important issue: The economy
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
5:11 P.M. | Voters' Voices: Endorsements Can Matter
NASHVILLE - The battle for the social conservatives in Tennessee came down, in some cases, to endorsements.
Lisa Hendren, 48, an at-home mom, and her husband, Jonathan, an Assemblies of God pastor in Ashland City, Tenn., went back and forth between Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich. They settled on Mr. Santorum.
"I think the final say was the endorsements he had," Mrs. Hendren said. "Yesterday, we heard on the radio that he was getting an endorsement from Focus on the Family."
But it was a tough call, with people in their church and their circle of friends engaging in sometimes contentious discussions about the issues that mattered the most, and who would best serve the viewpoint of religious conservatives.
"We have what's called a Cell Group, a roundtable Bible discussion," she said, "and a lot of times you heard people talk about the candidates and the values, and a lot of people were for the economy and family values. Sometimes, it got a little heated."
- 
5:04 P.M. | The Race, or Lack Thereof, in Virginia
The Virginia primary could well have been one of this year's marquee nominating contests. It is an important swing state that Mr. Obama carried in 2008, but which has swung back to Republicans in local races since then. Two of the Republican presidential candidates, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum, even live there.
Instead, the primary there has had all the suspense of Russia's presidential elections on Sunday.
That is because Virginia's restrictive ballot access laws wound up keeping its two residents, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum, off the primary ballot this year, leaving it a two-man contest between Mr. Romney and Ron Paul. The rest of the Republican field failed to qualify for the ballot, which required gathering signatures from at least 10,000 qualified voters, including at least 400 signatures from each of the state's 11 Congressional districts, all collected by residents of the state. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who entered the presidential race late and left it early, sued to try to get onto the Virginia ballot, and was joined by other candidates. They failed.
Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, a Romney supporter, defended the state's ballot access laws in an interview with National Review Online, saying that the rules were fair and that many candidates had met the requirements over the years.
"I wish everybody had qualified,'' he said. "I wish we had a robust primary with all four of the candidates on the ballot, so that Governor Romney would win outright with everybody on the ballot. We would have more people come out to the vote and get more names of people who care about Republican primaries."
Mr. McDonnell added: "And I would say this: If you can't get organized in Virginia to get 10,000 good signatures to qualify for the ballot, how are you going to run the greatest country on earth?"
Some Republicans worry that the lack of competition in Virginia could haunt them in November.
That is because Republican candidates are not blanketing the state with television ads, which could help them begin to spread their messages in ways they could then reinforce in the fall when the campaign against Mr. Obama begins in earnest. They are not assembling large networks of volunteers to help them get voters to the polls, which could form the core of a much larger Republican get-out-the-vote operation in the fall. And the state's Republican voters - who will be needed in November - were not courted the way the voters on other Super Tuesday states were.
The state's Board of Elections - perhaps aware that some primary voters were unhappy with their lack of choice - issued a warning against write-in votes. It said on its Web site that "if a name is written in a blank area on a ballot, or a name is scratched through and another is inserted, it will not register as a vote."
- 
4:54 P.M. | Timing Is Everything
In politics, timing is everything. And in this year's Republican nominating contests, the timing and makeup of Super Tuesday - with 10 states voting today, on March 6 - could have a big impact on the outcome.
How so? Just, for a moment, imagine how different things might look if this year's nominating calendar were more like the one used four years ago. In 2008, Super Tuesday was much bigger and held a full month earlier: more than 20 states voted on Feb. 5.
Counterfactuals, of course, are unknowable. But given that one of the Republican candidates, Mr. Gingrich, has written three counterfactual historical novels - including one which imagines a victory for the South at Gettysburg - it is fun to wonder for a moment what things might have looked like had there been a giant Super Tuesday this year on Feb. 5.
Mr. Gingrich would have still been enjoying some of the bounce he received in the polls after winning the South Carolina primary on Jan. 21, and looking forward to contests in more Southern states. Mr. Santorum would not have had the chance to see the bump in his own poll numbers and contributions following his Feb. 7 victories in Colorado and Minnesota. And Mr. Romney, with the deep pockets of his campaign and "super PAC," might have been able to blanket a wider swath of Feb. 5 states with ads than his rivals, giving him an opportunity to solidify his frontrunner status much earlier.
We will never know. But given the likelihood that the nominating process will look different yet again in four years (which states will vote when, and will they award their delegates proportionately or all to the winner?), there may be an opportunity for another counterfactual in 2016, asking what things would have looked like if only the 2012 nominating calendar had been used.
- 
4:45 P.M. | Potential Outcomes for Super Tuesday
Even before the votes are counted in the 10 Republican presidential contests being held on Tuesday, the question everyone will be asking is: who won?
But what does winning mean?
In addition to accumulating delegates, each of the four Republicans vying for a shot to take on President Obama is prepared to spin the day's results to his advantage. And with contests in several distinct regions of the country, there will be no shortage of opportunities to claim victory.
The real question for the candidates, however, is whether they can exceed the expectations that they - and others - have set for themselves. Newt Gingrich has to win Georgia. Rick Santorum has to win Tennessee or Oklahoma. Mitt Romney needs a win in Ohio.
While it is unclear at this point how the states - or delegates - will fall, here are three likely Super Tuesday outcomes that could play out by the end of the day.
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); FUNDRAISING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%) Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RON PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



233 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: More Iran War Talk From the Senate

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mitch McConnell wants to debate and vote on whether to give the president authorization to use force against Iran. Harry Reid says that won't happen. John Kerry, meanwhile, attacks Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
President Obama may be decrying the drumbeat of war and the politicization of the Iranian conflict, but his entreaties against loose war talk did little to dampen the pounding on Capitol Hill.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, went to the microphones after his party's policy lunch on Tuesday - and just after the president's press conference - to call on Congress to debate and vote on whether to authorize the use of force against Iran.
"Sanctions, while a good thing to do, will not achieve the desired result," Mr. McConnell said. He called for "a more forceful approach," even as he stressed that an authorization of force would not compel the president to go to war.
As for the politics, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, took to the Senate floor Tuesday afternoon to deliver a scathing speech against the man he called the likely Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney.
He accused Mr. Romney, the former governor of his state, of "sloganeering" on Iran and creating "false differences with the president just to score political points." He singled out as "the greatest single, willful avoidance of facts" Mr. Romney's contention that the Obama administration had been lax with sanctions against Iran, citing a litany of multilateral and unilateral efforts to squeeze Tehran and quoting Iranian government officials on the crippling results.
"Mr. Romney needs to know what's going on if he wants to run for president," Mr. Kerry said in an unusual speech addressed overtly to a political opponent of his party.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, pushed back on Mr. McConnell, his Republican counterpart, and indicated no such debate on the use of force would be coming soon.
"I'm not going to be part of rushing forward with a declaration of war," Mr. Reid said, citing a litany of hot spots around the globe, from North Korea to Syria. "So let's stop throwing the word 'war' around so casually."
Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the chamber's second-ranking Republican, said his party was not bent on war with Iran, but merely demanding that the Obama administration fully implement the sanctions available to it.
But the Republicans' stance has put them in an awkward position, pressing for stronger actions against Iran even as they castigate the Obama administration for allowing gasoline prices to rise. Mr. Kyl said he did not think tensions over Iran were behind the rise in gasoline prices. But if Mr. Obama were to make a grand gesture by opening federal lands to oil exploration and approving the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada, Mr. Kyl said, it would immediately burst a speculative bubble in the short run, while ensuring lower gas prices in the long term.
But while Mr. Kyl did allow that a military strike on Iran's nuclear facilities would lead to higher prices at the pump, he added, "I don't think Americans would hold it against Israel if their gas prices rise a little."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (64%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (63%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (60%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) Senate; Iran; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JON KYL (79%); HARRY REID (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (58%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



234 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Insights From the Super Tuesday Exit Polls

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times's polling unit is mining results of exit polls to learn about Super Tuesday voters and their priorities. 

 BODY:
11:49 p.m. | Updated The Times's polling unit is mining results of exit polls to learn about Super Tuesday voters and their priorities. This post will be updated as we crunch more numbers.

Ohio Independents
Tonight's Ohio primary reinforces the state's reputation for being a cliffhanger of a battleground state from cycle to cycle. President Obama won it in 2008, just as President did in 2000 and 2004, and the largest margin of victory among these three races was just 4.5 percent in 2008.
The eventual Republican presidential nominee, however, may have some extra work to do in order to win the state in November. According to the exit polls in Ohio, more than 4 in 10 voters tonight said that while they liked their candidate, they still had reservations. Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum both shared this group.
And independents may be a tougher group to corral in the general election. In Tuesday's contest in Ohio, which was open and included about one-fourth of voters who identified as independent, they were less inclined to be committed to choosing the eventual Republican nominee come November. (Only about one-third of independents said they would stay in the G.O.P.'s corner.)
By contrast, about three-fourths of the Republican voters said they would stand behind the nominee.
The Ohio republican electorate is relatively evenly split ideologically. About a third say they're very conservative, another third are somewhat conservative, and the final third are moderate or liberal. Among the very conservative, about 6 in 10 voters strongly favor their candidate. And about 8 in 10 said that they would definitely vote for the Republican nominee.
But, among the somewhat conservative, moderates and liberals, nearly half of the voters have reservations about their candidate. Just over 4 in 10 of moderate or liberal voters in the republican primary said that they would definitely vote for the republican nominee in November. And, almost 2 in 10 of the moderate and liberal voters reported that they will only vote for a Republican if their candidate wins. -Jeffrey W. Ladewig

Empathy vs. Electability
While Ohio and Tennessee voters consider Mr. Romney the candidate most likely to defeat President Obama in November, Mr. Santorum battles back as the candidate who best understands the problems of average Americans.
According to exit polls, about half of voters in Ohio said Mr. Romney was the most electable candidate, and more than 4 in 10 voters in Tennessee said so - far more than cited for any of the other candidates. Perceived electability has been a key strength for Mr. Romney throughout this primary season.
But Voters in Tennessee and Ohio were also asked which candidate best understands the problems of average Americans, and here Mr. Romney falters.
Only about 2 in 10 voters in each state say Mr. Romney is the most empathetic candidate. Mr. Santorum gets a third of voters in Ohio and Tennessee.
These views fuel vote choices. Mr. Romney wins a majority of voters who consider him most likely to win in November, while Mr. Santorum wins more than 8 in 10 voters in Ohio and Tennessee who say he best understands their problems. -Dalia Sussman

Massachusetts Tea Party
Most voters in the Republican primary in Massachusetts express positive views about the Tea Party movement. This may not seem surprising given that the historical event whose name the movement appropriated took place in the state, but it is somewhat unexpected given the moderate views of the state's Republican primary electorate. Nearly 1 in 4 voters said they were ideologically moderate on most political matters, and about half described themselves as independents. Among independent voters, attitudes toward the Tea Party were equally split between support and neutrality, while a majority of Republican voters were in support. In both groups only about three in twenty respondents opposed the Tea Party movement.
Some commentators attributed Scott Brown's success in the 2010 special election to the sentiment of Tea Party voters, yet on economic issues he has also been described as an important Wall Street ally. For Mr. Romney a similar picture emerges in today's Massachusetts primary. He was able to rally most Tea Party supporters behind him, despite having been described as a "vulture capitalist" by some of his rivals. -Thomas Craemer
Massachusetts Economy

Massachusetts is a relatively wealthy state with a comparatively strong economy even in hard times. Currently, it ranks as the state with the fifth highest income, and it has an unemployment rate well below the national average. It also has the country's lowest rate of uninsured among the nonelderly (6 percent as of 2010). This raises the question of how income may influence the views of Republican primary voters on the 2006 Massachusetts health insurance law.
The views of primary voters with family incomes below $50,000 differed from those of more-affluent voters. While about half of the more-affluent respondents in early exit polls stated that the 2006 Massachusetts health insurance law went too far, only about 1 in 4 of the less-affluent voters agreed. More than 1 in 10 of the less-affluent voters stated that the law did not go far enough. With only about a quarter of the Republican primary electorate falling into the lower income category, however, these atypical views on the health care law are unlikely to make a difference. -Thomas Craemer
Voters Value Electability
As has been the case in all the contests so far, Republican primary voters in Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee said the quality they were looking for most in a candidate was his ability to beat President Obama in November.
By far, voters in these primary states chose electability over someone who was a true conservative, someone with strong moral character or someone with the right experience, preliminary exit polls found. -Allison Kopicki
Notes From Georgia
Nearly half of voters in Georgia said electability mattered most to them, as did about 4 in 10 voters in Ohio and Massachusetts and nearly as many in Tennessee.
Voters who cared most about a candidate's electability have supported Mitt Romney in all previous states except South Carolina. Rick Santorum did especially well in last week's Michigan primary among those most wanting a true conservative candidate or one with strong moral character. 
More than one-third of Georgia's primary voters said that Newt Gingrich's ties to the state, as a former resident and former United States representative, mattered in their choice of candidate.
The most important issue in the state was the economy. In particular, four-fifths of primary voters said the rise in gas prices (up 6 percent in Georgia since last month) was an important factor in choosing a candidate. By comparison, in the 2008 Republican primary in Georgia, only two-fifths chose the economy as the most important issue. By a 2-to-1 margin, voters in Georgia also said they believed that experience in business better prepares a candidate to serve as president than experience in government.
In choosing electability as their top candidate quality, voters gave a slight edge to Mr. Romney over Mr. Gingrich in determining who could best achieve that goal. -David R. Jones

Ohio's Economic Woes
Despite recent employment gains in the Buckeye State, more than 9 in 10 Ohio voters said they were worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years, of which nearly three-quarters of voters said they were very worried.
Unemployment in Ohio is currently at 7.7 percent, exactly the same as at the time of the 2008 presidential election, and now lower than the national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent. Unemployment was at 9.6 percent at the time of the mid-terms in November 2010. During the recession, unemployment peaked at 10.6 percent for seven months, from July 2009 to January 2010.
For voters in Ohio, the economy clearly outweighed social issues, with nearly 6 in 10 saying the economy was the most important issue in deciding whom to vote for today, according to early exit poll results. Just about 1 in 10 voters said abortion was the issue that mattered most to their vote.
Over a third of Ohio primary voters said they are angry with the way the federal government is working, and about half of Ohio primary voters said they were dissatisfied. With that level of government dissatisfaction, it was not surprising that nearly two-thirds of Ohio voters said that working in business was better preparation for serving effectively as president. Over a quarter cited working in government as better preparation. -Allison Kopicki
Evangelicals and Tea Party Supporters

Mr. Romney has struggled among very conservative voters, evangelical Christians and strong Tea Party supporters in some of the previous states. While he won last week's Michigan primary, those groups preferred Mr. Santorum, helping to keep the race close there.
It will be worth a close watch to see how the candidates do with those voters today. How much of the electorate they make up in each state could be crucial. Out of Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee, preliminary exit polls find Tennessee and Georgia with the largest portion of very conservative voters (accounting for about 4 in 10 voters in each state) and evangelical Christians (two-thirds of voters in Georgia and more than 7 in 10 in Tennessee).
In Ohio, about 3 in 10 voters describe themselves as very conservative, and nearly half are evangelical Christians. These groups account for a far smaller percent of voters in Massachusetts.
Of those four states, Georgia has the largest portion of voters who strongly support the Tea Party movement - about 4 in 10. About a third of voters in Tennessee and 3 in 10 in Ohio strongly support it, while 2 in 10 in Massachusetts do. -Dalia Sussman
Gas Prices
In Georgia, Massachusetts, Ohio and Tennessee, voters overwhelmingly cited gas prices as a factor in their primary vote choice today. But only one in 10 across those states cited it as their most important factor.
Over the past month, gas prices have risen by 6 percent in Georgia, Massachusetts and Tennessee and by 8 percent in Ohio. The Republicans candidates for president have been using the increases, with the current national average of gas at $3.72 a gallon for regular, as a way to attack President Obama's economic record.
In Georgia, the average price for gas is $3.70 and about three-fourths of the voters reported that gas prices were one of several important factors.
Gas prices in Massachusetts, at $3.74 a gallon, are also close to the national average. In today's primaries, about 7 in 10 voters in Massachusetts said that gas prices were one of the important factors for their decision.
Ohio's gas prices are also at $3.74 a gallon for regular. Similarly, just over 7 in 10 voters answered that it was an important factor.
Tennessee, of these four states, had the lowest average gas price, at $3.59 a gallon. This is near the lowest in the country, which is in Wyoming at $3.21 a gallon. But Tennessee's voters -- three-fourths of them called it important. -Jeffrey W. Ladewig

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Economic Conditions and Trends; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Polling; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (71%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012



235 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Newark Project Aims to Link Living and Learning

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Work has begun on an education-centered community featuring three charter schools and affordable housing for teachers in the city's decayed downtown, with much of the design work done by the noted architect Richard Meier.
The development, called Teachers Village, is expected to cost $149 million when it is completed two years from now. It will consist of eight low-rise buildings clustered around the intersection of William and Halsey Streets, in Newark's Four Corners historic district. As such, Mr. Meier has designed buildings to reflect the historical nature of the area.
Teachers Village is receiving millions of dollars in government subsidies in various forms, with $14.2 million being provided in equity by the developers. Two of the buildings, together about 134,000 square feet, will be leased to the charter schools and day care while offering retail space on the ground floor. The other six buildings, totaling about 289,000 square feet, will contain as many as 220 rental apartments for teachers with retail space on the ground floor.
Teachers Village received its final approval at the city level in March 2011, but did not break ground until last month with a ceremony that included Mayor Cory A. Booker, Gov. Chris Christie and several private developers and investors. 
Mayor Booker, who has shepherded the project from its first presentation in 2010, was not available for comment and referred a reporter to a news release: ''Teachers Village shows that when Newark dreams big and makes ambitious plans, we can achieve development projects that meet the highest standards for innovation and excellence. While the global economy is struggling, we in Newark have fought to create transformative change that will lead to educational, economic, and social gains for our citizens.''
While the project seems to have the city's unqualified support, some residents have protested the inclusion of the charter schools instead of traditional public schools, and others have said they felt left out of the planning process and disliked the project's reliance on large public subsidies.
Ron Beit, a managing member of the lead developer, the RBH Group of Manhattan, said, ''We were very committed to the point that you needed to create this community overnight.'' Other partners include the billionaire investor Nicolas Berggruen; the private equity giant Frederick Iseman; the financier Warren Lichtenstein and his firm, Steel Partners Holdings; and the short-term commercial lender BRT Realty Trust.
Teachers Village is the first step of a development project by the same developers that will entail building or rehabilitating 15 million square feet of space, including several skyscrapers, on 32 parcels of land downtown.
The school spaces have been leased to two established Newark charter schools, Team Academy and Discovery Charter School, and a new charter, Great Oaks Charter School. The schools, with a charter school that abuts the site, are expected to accommodate about 1,360 children.
They and their families are potential customers for the stores that will occupy the 64,000 square feet of retail space being built, Mr. Beit said. So are the residents of the 220 apartments, which are not restricted to teachers, he said.
The residences in Teachers Village will be marketed toward Newark educators in charter schools, traditional public schools, private schools and universities, Mr. Beit said. About 40 studio apartments must be kept affordable according to government requirements, but Mr. Beit said the public subsidies involved in the project will enable developers to keep all their prices low -- about $700 a month for a studio; $1,000 to $1,100 for a one-bedroom; and $1,400 for a two-bedroom apartment, he said.
''Our vision for Newark is really sort of a middle-income utopia, very much like how Queens and the outer boroughs have succeeded tremendously with their retail,'' said Mr. Beit, who is working with Jacobs Enterprises of Clifton, N.J., to build the retail space.
He said the larger downtown development, which is to have a wide range of rental apartments and condominiums, both subsidized and market rate, may eventually draw more upscale retailers and affluent residents attracted by Mr. Meier, who is known for buildings like the Getty Center in Los Angeles.
Mr. Meier, who designed five of Teachers Village's eight buildings -- the others were done by a local architect, Mikesell & Associates, and KSS Architects of Princeton -- also spent a significant amount of time working on the streetscapes in the plan. He said he expected to work on the master plan for the larger project beyond Teachers Village, also in the historic district.
''We spent a lot of time with the local landmarks commission to make sure that the designs were historically contextual,'' Mr. Meier said, ''and to ensure the neighborhood was true to its historic roots, while at the same time ensuring that the community has a unique distinction and quality suggestive of the new chapter commencing in this neighborhood.''
While residents appear to be in consensus regarding the need to revitalize downtown Newark, several said Teachers Village would not serve a broad enough swath of city residents. Donna Jackson, a full-time community activist, said many members of the public felt disengaged from a planning process that largely involved only business owners.
''We have no problem with improvement going on in downtown Newark,'' she said. ''The problem is this new development continues to drive out Newarkers. Most of us in Newark feel that again this is another prime example of segregation and building for only a certain few.''
Cassandra Dock, another activist, said that at public meetings before the Newark Preservation and Landmarks Committee and planning board in 2010, Teachers Village was described as being fully financed by private investors, and news reports from that period bear that out.
Adam Zipkin, Newark's deputy mayor for economic and housing development, said that while Teachers Village is receiving many tax credits, ''we'll still be getting hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in the other additional property tax payments, tax abatement payments, as well as payroll taxes and parking taxes, so the project is obviously good for the city financially, but it's so much more than that. It's hundreds of construction jobs, and hundreds of permanent jobs that Newark residents have substantial opportunities with.''
Mr. Beit said the project was first presented as being partly publicly financed. Teachers Village is receiving subsidies that include $22.7 million in Qualified School Construction Bonds; $5.3 million of Redevelopment Area Bonds; Federal New Market Tax Credits worth about $38 million and New Jersey Urban Transit Hub Tax Credits from a New Jersey Economic Development Authority allocation of $39 million. The project is also receiving $12 million in loans from Newark, the Brick City Development Corporation and the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, Mr. Beit said.
Other residents said that including only charter schools in Teachers Village reinforced the image of a segregated community downtown.
''Rather than investing in new charter schools, why not invest in real change for schools that have been serving Newark's youth for decades?'' asked Kathryn Strom, a member of the New Jersey Teacher Activist Group.
Mr. Beit said that when Teachers Village was in the planning stages, Newark's school district was consolidating, but that he would be happy to lease to any tenant school, whether public, private or charter.
Mr. Beit's partner, Mr. Berggruen, said that unlike other developers in Newark over the years, who have started projects that foundered before completion, Mr. Berggruen intended to see the revival of Newark's downtown through the long haul.
''As much as Newark in the last few decades has really suffered, it was historically, 50 years ago or more, a great success,'' Mr. Berggruen said. ''That means it's a city that can be rebuilt, but you have to start with baby steps.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Part of the Teachers Village construction site, a project in Newark designed with education in mind.
 Ron Beit of RBH Group, the Teachers Village project lead developer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); APPROVALS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

COMPANY: BRT REALTY TRUST (51%); STEEL PARTNERS HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: BRT (NYSE) (51%); SPLP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: NICOLAS BERGGRUEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



236 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: When Catholic and Secular Hospitals Merge

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Women's Health Care at Risk'' (editorial, Feb. 29), about mergers between Catholic and secular hospitals, raises urgent issues that deserve more scrutiny from policy makers and the public. 
As you say, the public loses when Catholic hospitals absorb struggling community hospitals, only to decimate the reproductive care they provide. But the problem doesn't stop there. Catholic hospitals are now failing in record numbers, and secular health care organizations are acquiring them with onerous strings attached.
Instead of running formerly Catholic hospitals as secular institutions, buyers are often forced -- as a condition of sale -- to uphold the church hierarchy's bans on contraception, abortion and other critical services, even when women's lives are at stake. These commitments vary in duration but can restrict medical practice for 20 years, or even in perpetuity.
It's bad enough that a religious organization can ban desperately needed services when acquiring secular hospitals. But there is no conceivable justification for imposing such edicts on hospitals it no longer owns.
Many Catholic hospitals are failing in this economic climate, and the boom in sales and mergers is sure to continue. This makes the need for oversight all the more urgent. State officials must ensure that secular hospitals provide the care patients need -- not the care that former owners deem morally acceptable.
JOAN MALIN President and Chief Executive Planned Parenthood of New York City New York, March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); MERGERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WOMEN (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); RELIGION (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); ABORTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE SERVICES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD OF NEW YORK CITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



237 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: AARP Study Says Price of Popular Drugs Rose 26%

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
The prices of drugs used most widely by older Americans rose by nearly 26 percent from 2005 to 2009 -- nearly twice the rate of inflation -- according to a report issued Tuesday by AARP.
The increase happened even as the price of generic drugs, which account for the vast majority of prescriptions, has been falling in recent years, the report found. ''At a time when our country is contracting economically and inflation is really, really low, inflation in the cost of prescription drugs is going in the other direction,'' said Cheryl Matheis, the senior vice president for policy strategy at AARP, whose members are 50 and older. ''The word we use is relentless because it just doesn't seem to abate.''
But officials in the pharmaceutical industry criticized the report, saying that the expanded availability of generic drugs has slowed the increase in drug prices in recent years. ''AARP has released yet another misleading pricing report that ignores key facts about the marketplace for prescription medicines and paints an inaccurate picture of prescription drug spending in the U.S.,'' the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry trade and lobbying group, said in a statement Tuesday. 
The AARP report, which examined the retail prices of the 514 brand name and generic drugs most widely used by Medicare recipients, said that the price of generic drugs fell by nearly 31 percent from 2005 to 2009. But at the same time that brand-name drug prices grew by nearly 41 percent and specialty drugs rose more than 48 percent. The rate of inflation, by contrast, grew by just over 13 percent over the same period.
Few dispute that the price of brand name drugs is increasing. ''Inflation is alive and well in the drug industry,'' said Lawrence Marsh, managing director of equity research at Barclays Capital, who tracks drug prices. He said drug companies had been raising prices on drugs whose patent protections were about to end in an effort to squeeze as much profit as they could before losing market share to generics.
Studies using more recent data have shown that the rate of growth in drug spending appears to be leveling off. A report by government economists last year found that total retail spending on prescription drugs was up just 1.2 percent in 2010, a record low rate. And a study by the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, a research group that consults for the drug industry, reported that spending on prescription medicines grew by 2.3 percent in 2010, compared with 5.1 percent in 2009.
Some criticized the AARP report because it reported on only the full retail price consumers paid at the pharmacy, even though many patients were responsible for only a small co-payment or nothing at all. It also did not take into account rebates and other discounts insurers had negotiated with drug companies; AARP said that data was not available to the group. And some said that the widespread use of generics had been driving down the overall cost of drugs for years.
''There are a whole bunch of high quality medicines that are becoming available generically, and the cost is dropping 30, 40 percent,'' said Michael Kleinrock, director of research development at the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics. A study of the Medicare Part D drug program by the IMS Institute found that the daily cost of drugs fell from 2006 to 2010 for 8 of 10 categories of drugs that make up the most volume of prescriptions under Medicare Part D, the drug program for retirees.
Even so, Mr. Kleinrock said that his research showed that even with discounts, what insurance companies had been paying for drugs on a national level increased consistently by about 5 to 6 percent a year.
Leigh Purvis, one of the authors of the AARP report, said the studies that reported a slower growth in spending did not look at the price of individual drugs. That matters to Americans who do not have health insurance and who have to pay for those drugs out of pocket.
The price of brand-name drugs can also drive up insurance premiums, she said, and push retirees more quickly into the coverage gap -- or the so-called doughnut hole -- in the Medicare Part D drug program.
Ms. Matheis said this was especially relevant to AARP members, who are older and likely to lose their jobs or have a harder time finding one at the same time that they are more likely to need prescription drugs.
''If they don't have coverage for those drugs, they are in a world of hurt,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (92%); DRUG PRICES (91%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MARKET SHARE (73%); LOBBYING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); INSURANCE (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (60%); PATENTS (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE COMMUNICATION INC (51%); INSTITUTE FOR HEALTHCARE QUALITY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%); PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



238 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Poverty in Developing World Is Down Despite the Recession, Report Says

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A World Bank report shows a broad reduction in extreme poverty -- and indicates that the global recession, contrary to economists' expectations, did not increase poverty in the developing world.
The report shows that for the first time the proportion of people living in extreme poverty -- on less than $1.25 a day -- fell in every developing region from 2005 to 2008. And the biggest recession since the Great Depression seems not to have thrown that trend off course, preliminary data from 2010 indicate.
The progress is so drastic that the world has met the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals to cut extreme poverty in half five years before its 2015 deadline. 
''This is very good news,'' said Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and the United Nations' special adviser on the Millennium Development Goals. ''There has been broad-based progress in fighting poverty, and accelerating progress. There's a lot to be happy about.''
The report indicates that despite the world entering a recession in 2009, poverty did not increase in developing nations. That is contrary to the World Bank's own expectations. In a year-end 2008 report, the Washington-based development institution warned, ''Unemployment is on the rise in industrial countries and poverty is set to increase across low- and middle-income countries, bringing with it a substantial deterioration in conditions for the world's most vulnerable.''
But that did not happen. Preliminary surveys for 2010 show that the proportion of people in the developing world living in extreme poverty fell.
That is because of strong growth in countries like Brazil, India and especially China, which helped buoy economies in Africa and South America. High commodity prices also aided exporting nations.
Market conditions also favored developing countries. Economists had theorized that the credit crunch and recession would cause a flight to the safety of developed nations. But shortly after the recession, with growth stagnating in countries like the United States and in western Europe, the world's investors plowed money into emerging markets.
''In the past, economic crises in the rich world had a big and immediate impact on the developing world,'' said Charles Kenny, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a research institution based in Washington. ''But this time, the impact was much smaller, and we did not see developing countries follow the United States and Europe into long recessions and slow recoveries.''
''That's good news for all concerned,'' Mr. Kenny added, ''because growth in developing countries has helped developed countries as well.''
The report contained a raft of statistics showing broad declines in poverty throughout the 2000s. For the first time since the World Bank started keeping statistics in 1981, poverty fell in every region of the world on a three-year timeframe. In sub-Saharan Africa, the proportion of the population living in extreme poverty fell below 50 percent for the first time. And between 1981 and 2008, poverty fell to just less than a quarter of the developing world's population from more than half .
Much of the story was about China, which moved nearly 700 million people out of poverty between 1981 and 2008, with the proportion of its population living in extreme poverty falling to 13 percent from 84 percent during that period. The country's annual pace of economic growth never dipped below 9 percent, even in 2009, when the world's economy contracted.
But perhaps the most surprising success story is sub-Saharan Africa, where the proportion of people living in extreme poverty actually increased through the 1990s, before declining in the 2000s.
''People used to worry, 'Is Africa going to be poor forever?' '' said Mr. Kenny of the Center for Global Development. ''Well, it doesn't really look like it, does it?''
Extreme poverty in the Middle East and North Africa fell to just 2.7 percent in 2008 from 4.2 percent in 2002. And extreme poverty in sub-Saharan Africa fell to 47.5 percent in 2008 from 55.7 percent in 2002.
''Long-term changes are really starting to take hold,'' said Mr. Sachs, citing favorable market conditions, policies to tackle public health problems and technological change bringing tools like cellphones and Internet connections to even the most remote and rural areas.
Mr. Sachs said that climate change and its attending droughts and floods, the threat of armed conflict and a persistently high birth rate among the very poor threatened to reverse the decline in poverty. But he said he most likely saw them getting better. ''Looking at the balance of data, this is a very promising time for fighting poverty,'' Mr. Sachs said.
Separately, the United Nations announced that the world had met the Millennium Development Goal of halving the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water five years ahead of its 2015 target. Between 1990 and 2010, more than two billion people gained access to improved drinking water, according to a joint report by the United Nations Children's Fund and the World Health Organization. Now, 89 percent of the world's population has that resource, up from 76 percent in 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (93%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



239 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
DESPITE GLOBAL SLUMP,
EXTREME POVERTY DOWN
A World Bank report shows a broad reduction in extreme poverty -- and indicates that the global recession, contrary to economists' expectations, did not increase poverty in the developing world. The report shows that for the first time the proportion of people living in extreme poverty fell in every developing region from 2005 to 2008. Page A4
U.S.-RUSSIAN TIES STRAINED 
Now that Russia's presidential campaign is over, the Kremlin signaled that it was prepared for its relationship with Washington to get back to normal. But senior American officials suggested that it could take some time to get past the strident anti-American rhetoric that characterized Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin's politicking in recent months. Page A4
U.S. AND ISRAEL SPLIT ON IRAN
President Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu remain divided on two central questions: If Iran decided to race for a nuclear weapon, would the West detect that in time to stop it? And even if it were detected, would an airstrike be the best option? News analysis. Page A6
IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS RESUME
For the first time in more than a year, the global powers dealing with Iran's disputed nuclear program said that they would resume face-to-face negotiations. The resumption of negotiations could relieve rising pressure from Israel to use military force against Iran. Page A7
SOMALIS FACE PIRACY CHARGES
Fifteen Somali men accused of piracy, who were captured aboard a hijacked Iranian fishing vessel by the United States Navy in January, were transferred to the Seychelles for trial. A senior Navy officer expressed satisfaction at the decision, which ended weeks of transferring the suspects among vessels at sea. Page A9
DATA HINTS AT HIGGS BOSON
Physicists say they have found a bump in their data that might be the Higgs boson, a hypothesized particle that is responsible for endowing other elementary particles with mass. Page A9
National
MINNESOTA DISTRICT REACHES
PACT ON ANTIGAY BULLYING
After years of accusations that it had failed to stop antigay bullying and a spate of student suicides, Minnesota's largest school district has agreed to sweeping changes intended to prevent harassment based on sexual orientation in a plan that federal officials call a national model. Page A11
EDUCATION CUTS IN FLORIDA
With three days remaining until the end of the legislative session, Florida lawmakers are moving forward with a $70 billion budget that would create the state's 12th university and cut hefty amounts of money from higher education. Page A12
NONPROFITS FEEL PRESSURE
The I.R.S. has sent dozens of detailed, lengthy questionnaires to Tea Party organizations applying for nonprofit tax status, demanding to know their political leanings and activities. The agency plans to press nonprofits like American Crossroads and Priorities USA to justify their tax-protected status as social welfare organizations. Page A20
OBAMA SETS AN EXAMPLE
President Obama, speaking publicly for the first time about Rush Limbaugh's slur of a law student on his radio show last week, said that he had called the woman, Sandra Fluke, in part to set an example for his daughters. Page A20
New York
KELLY APPEARS ON DEFENSIVE
OVER MUSLIM MONITORING
A closed-door meeting between Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly and half a dozen Muslim leaders was only the latest example of his efforts to manage an ongoing imbroglio over the Police Department's surveillance of Muslim communities in New York City and beyond. Page A24
Obituaries
DONALD M. PAYNE, 77
A former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, Representative Donald M. Payne achieved a long-held goal of becoming the first black congressman from New Jersey. Page A24
Business
ARCHITECT OF A DEBT DEAL
SEES GREECE AS A MODEL
Mitu Gulati, a Duke law professor, who with Lee Buchheit, a New York lawyer, developed the blueprint for Greece's bond write-off, says that similar deals would help other indebted countries. Page B1
DRUG COSTS ON THE RISE
The prices of the most widely used drugs by older Americans rose by nearly 26 percent from 2005 to 2009 -- nearly twice the rate of inflation -- according to a report issued by AARP, the lobbying group for the elderly. Page B2
SPAIN'S STRUGGLE TO UNITE
The Spanish government is struggling to discipline the regional governments that it says are exacerbating the country's fiscal problems as Spain faces pressure from the European Union to rein in its deficit. Page B3
AUTO SHOW SHIFTS FOCUS
Previous auto shows have given the impression everyone would be driving plug-ins by now. But this year the spotlight at the Geneva show is on more traditional engines, albeit with an emphasis on emissions and fuel efficiency. Page B3
Sports
ORIOLES' PITCHER BUILDS
A STRONGER FOUNDATION
Brian Matusz, whose 10.69 earned run average last season was the highest in history for a pitcher with at least 10 starts, trained under former Oriole Brady Anderson in the offseason. Page B12
Arts
ALIENS OF ALL VARIETIES,
WANDERING IN THE DESERT
In Hari Kunzru's novel ''Gods Without Men,'' close encounters with U.F.O.s are mixed with the story of a strained marriage and a missing child. Page C1
'TERRA NOVA' CANCELED
Fox has canceled its costly science-fiction series ''Terra Nova,'' and the studio that produces it is seeking another network to run it. Page C1
Dining
RECREATING SNACK CAKES,
COOKIES AND CHIPS AT HOME
With a twinge of nostalgia and help found on the Web, those who treasure their old Twinkies, Ho Hos and even Fritos can try to copy them at home. Page D1
AN ACTOR TURNS GROCER
The actor Wendell Pierce and two partners plan to open healthy grocery stores called Sterling Farms in neighborhoods where supermarkets are scarce. Page D3
Op-Ed
Maureen Dowd PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NAVIES (86%); MARITIME PIRACY (86%); BULLYING (85%); HIGGS BOSON (85%); PHYSICS (85%); TAX LAW (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SOMALI PIRACY (69%); HIJACKING (69%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ENDOWMENTS (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); SUICIDE (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (57%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (93%); SEYCHELLES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



240 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Witnesses From Japan On Indian Pt.

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

 BODY:
Noriyuki Kitajima stepped into the cold, clear morning air of Claremont Avenue in Morningside Heights, where he was staying on a visit from Japan.
''One quick little cigarette,'' Mr. Kitajima, 45, said. The smokes, he reckoned, are an occupational hazard.
Last March, unemployed and sitting in a Tokyo cafe with his girlfriend, Mr. Kitajima felt the shudders of an 8.9-magnitude earthquake. Before long, he found himself working nearly 200 miles away at the Fukushima nuclear plant, which was destroyed. 
''I would say about 90 percent of the workers at the plant smoke,'' Mr. Kitajima said. ''Stress.''
His job is to read radiation meters worn by the 3,000 people trying to clean up its lethally contaminated remnants. The most dangerous work is done at night, he said, after the main shifts are gone. A crew of 20 men is sent to pick up the irradiated rubble. Practically none of the men have families, much education or regular employment. They have no experience working in nuclear power plants. He compared them to day laborers in America. Within a few months, they accumulate what is regarded as the maximum safe dosage of radiation for four years, Mr. Kitajima said.
''Then they bring in new ones,'' he said. ''Everybody kinds of admits to themselves that these are expendable people.''
Sunday will be the first anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami that struck hardest in Japan, and Mr. Kitajima is among those who have brought to New York's commemorations their direct witness of the unexpected, the statistically improbable, the totally far-fetched. ''I came to convey the reality,'' Kazuhiko Amano, a relief worker in Fukushima, said Monday night in a panel discussion at Manhattanville College that was organized by Clearwater, the Hudson River advocacy organization. The group is opposed to the renewal of the license for the Indian Point nuclear power plant, about 30 miles north of New York City, and is invoking the Japanese catastrophe.
Mr. Amano, who worked for the Fukushima prefecture, said rigorous annual emergency drills in Fukushima proved to be meaningless. ''They had no connection to reality,'' he said.
Phones, whether land lines, mobile or satellite, were knocked out, he said. The Internet was down. Radio stations could not broadcast. Rumors ran wild. Traffic crawled. Drivers believed they would die. Pets and farm animals were abandoned. In refugee centers, 2,500 people were separated by cardboard walls.
The operators of the Indian Point complex, who argue that it supplies power at relatively low cost and without using carbon, have said that flooding from the tsunami did the most damage in Japan, and that its plant was built to withstand a 6.0-magnitude earthquake, higher than any known to have occurred in this part of the continent.
The adequacy of that standard was questioned on Monday night by John Armbruster, a seismologist from the Columbia University Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, who said that seismic building codes had been tightened since Indian Point's construction, in the late 1960s.
He noted that the earth around Indian Point was more active than was recognized at the time the plant was designed. In 2008, Lamont-Doherty reported an ''alignment'' of earthquakes between Peekskill, N.Y., and Stamford, Conn., that were discerned only after the installation of seismographs in 1973.
''Fukushima was prepared for every earthquake known in the last 1,000 years, but it was struck by the earthquake that happened 1,140 years ago,'' Mr. Armbruster said.
In hundreds of schoolyards, the Japanese government removed the surface soil, but it has piled up, along with tons and tons of irradiated rubble from the plant, said Yuki Tanaka, a research professor at Hiroshima Peace Institute.
''The Japanese government is asking each prefectural government to accept a certain amount of the rubble,'' he said. Most have refused.
About 15 years ago, a worker at Indian Point was hurt by a machine that pierced his boot. At a hospital, a decontamination pathway was established, and admissions were halted, Dr. Erik Larsen, an emergency doctor, recalled. ''This is a relatively minor traumatized patient,'' he said, ''that took four hours, and we needed 60 people.''
Mr. Kitajima, who had left the cafe for work at the plant, said he was once part of a political movement that opposed construction of nuclear plants, but had dropped out. ''The risk of working there is what I've done to atone for my lack of involvement,'' he said. ''We are trying to scoop the ocean with a cup.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Noriyuki Kitajima of Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); REFUGEES (64%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



241 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Bruno Ricciotti

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Ricciotti, 39, is the chief executive and a principal of Bond New York, an independent residential real estate brokerage. The company is involved in both rentals and sales, and represents new developments like the Ellison condominium in Harlem.
Mr. Ricciotti, a former broker at Citi Habitats, started Bond in 2000 with Noah Freedman, a childhood friend.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q.Were you always interested in real estate?
A. Real estate was never necessarily a dream -- or anything like that -- that we had. But I think when you come to New York, it's one of the first things you notice that's special about the city. So we both saw it as a good business opportunity.
Q.Tell me about how your business partnership came about.
A. Noah and I went to Central High School in Philadelphia and we stayed friends through college. I moved to New York. And then he came to New York to do some modeling and called me one day and said, ''I'm living in a studio with four other guys -- can I stay on your couch for a couple of nights?'' I said, ''Sure, come over.'' He stayed on my couch for six months, and I actually convinced him to get into real estate, because the modeling thing was hit and miss, and we worked at another firm together. And then we looked back to our conversations that we had as kids and said, ''Let's start our own business!''
Q.How do you divide the responsibilities of running Bond?
A. We basically did the same thing for awhile, and then slowly we spread out. His expertise is in technology; he's sort of like master of the machines, which is very important nowadays. I'm more of the personnel manager. I do a bit of recruiting as well.
Q.Do you broker any more deals these days?
A. No. We have 450 brokers now.
Q. What are your goals for the company?
A. Most of the efforts that we're putting into the company now are to strengthen the quality of the sales department. We opened our sales department in 2005. We were probably more a rental-focused company. Our clientele has matured, and so has our agent roster. Our sales department is growing at a much more rapid rate than our rental department.
Q.What is the breakdown between sales and rentals?
A. We're almost like two companies, in that we have three sales offices and three rental offices that are all managed separately. We have more rental agents -- I think we have about 100 sales agents and 300-plus rental agents -- but the average sales commission is about five times that of a rental commission. We also do retail leasing and some building sales as well.
Q.How is business these days?
A. It's been somewhat flat, however in the last couple of months the market has changed a lot. I don't think it's been acknowledged.
One of the barometers that I use is office space here in New York. When the recession hit we had seven available floors in my building; now there's nothing. And that lets me know there's been a lot of healing: companies have been hiring, businesses have been upgrading their digs. They're moving here.
Q.What about financing?
A. Financing has gotten a lot easier. The percentage of deals that go from accepted offer to close is just significantly higher.
Volume is higher on all price points in our sales department, but in addition to that, the likelihood of a deal actually going through has changed a lot. I just feel it from the mortgage brokers and everyone I speak to. It's kind of like the big secret that things have really turned around a lot.
Q.What are your predictions for the traditionally busy spring selling season?
A. I think it's going to be more of what we've had in the last two months. It's contingent upon the continuation of the job numbers, which seem to be forming a pattern. I'll go out on a limb here and say that it feels a little bit like 2005, when we came out of the post-Sept. 11 recession. Everyone overcompensated by being really careful -- nobody built. Suddenly there were lines waiting to buy units sight unseen. I hope that's what it is because that was a good market for all of us.
Q.Yes, but we all know how that turned out.
A. Well, I agree, and that was quite a few years later. I don't know if they're going to swing that far back in the other direction.
There's definitely a shortage of supply, and I just can't imagine that's there's not going to be somewhat of a slingshot effect once the confidence hits the streets again.
Q.Speaking of supply, are you representing many new developments?
A. We are representing the Ellison, a boutique condo in Harlem; it's 50 percent in contract. The units range from $500,000 to around $1 million.
We've got something in the works in Williamsburg -- 142 North First, a high-end eight-unit condominium development under attorney general review. And two in Greenpoint. I can't provide any further detail.
Q.So what do you do for fun?
A. I'm a bit of an exercise addict. I have personal trainer that does boxing and mixed martial arts. I ride bikes, do yoga, swim, roller blade, go skiing and snowboarding -- when I'm not too busy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SALES COMPENSATION (77%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



242 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: In Seattle, Amazon Leads An Upswing in Office Space

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Amazon, already a large company, has been on a tremendous growth spurt. At the end of last year, the online retailer had about 56,000 employees nationwide, a 67 percent rise from 2010, and will most likely continue hiring this year.
That growth translates into mind-boggling real estate figures. Amazon currently leases about 2.5 million square feet in Seattle alone, brokers said, much of it in buildings developed by the real estate arm of Vulcan, which was started by the Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen. The last building at its headquarters campus built by Vulcan is scheduled to be completed in December.
Amazon plans to double that figure in coming years, by building three office buildings of one million square feet each at a cost of $600 million. Last month the company made a deal with Clise Properties, Seattle's largest downtown landowner, to buy three contiguous blocks, or about five acres, near downtown. Amazon would not comment for this article.
The property is part of a 13-acre parcel that Clise, a family investment company, would prefer not to break into smaller pieces. ''They have options to purchase additional significant land,'' said Alfred Clise, the chairman and chief executive of Clise Properties, ''and we are hoping and expecting that that will happen.'' 
Amazon's growth has had an outsize effect on the local office market, helping to drive down vacancy rates and resuscitate the investment climate. The office vacancy rate in the fourth quarter dropped to 12.4 percent from 13.6 percent at the end of 2010, according to Kidder Mathews, a commercial brokerage in Seattle. By the end of this year, the vacancy rate is projected to fall into the single digits.
''You certainly can't argue that Amazon by far and away has been the big driver,'' said Chris Moe, a senior vice president at Kidder Mathews. ''But it's not all Amazon. It's them and two dozen other healthy local companies.''
As vacant space leaves the market, downtown landlords are feeling more confident and leasing prices are starting to creep up. Buildings that broke ground before the recession and were completed at the depth of the market three years ago are starting to fill. Net absorption, or the amount of space companies rented and occupied, grew to 1.9 million square feet last year, Kidder Mathews said, the most in the last five years.
Schnitzer West, a Seattle developer, brought two office towers to market after the real estate collapse and struggled to find tenants. Real estate brokers wondered if Schnitzer, normally seen as savvy, had completely mistimed the market. But early last year, Amazon agreed to move in, taking over more than 22 floors of the 36 stories at one of the towers, 1918 Eighth Avenue. The lease for 460,000 square feet was the biggest for the area since before the economic downturn.
''Nineteen eighteen was our poster child of what not to do,'' said Dan Ivanoff, the founder of Schnitzer West and the company's managing investment partner. ''It was a tough slog, but we were fortunate that Amazon leased it. We want to mitigate risk very well, we don't want to be lucky.''
After three consecutive years of decline, Seattle's investment market rebounded last year, with 6.5 million square feet trading hands for $1.7 billion, according to Real Capital Analytics, a research and consulting firm. The biggest deal of the year, and the third-largest portfolio purchase nationwide, according to Real Capital Analytics, was the sale of Schnitzer West's two downtown office towers, including the one leased to Amazon, for about $480 million to J.P. Morgan Asset Management.
Within 24 hours of putting the two buildings on the market last spring, Schnitzer West said, there were 80 potential buyers. J.P. Morgan bought the buildings for the same reasons that are making Seattle attractive to other investors: the city has a diverse mix of companies, and job growth is returning.
''We like Seattle a lot -- it's one of the few markets where companies are making money,'' said Douglas A. Schwartz, a managing director at J.P. Morgan Asset Management in Los Angeles.
Seattle is likely to remain attractive to real estate investors. The Urban Land Institute and Grubb & Ellis Company, a commercial brokerage, both named Seattle as the second-best market in the country for office investment and credited its broad mix of biotech and technology for its success.
The strengthening office market has given two developers confidence to move ahead with speculative office buildings, albeit on a small scale, in South Lake Union. Formerly a neighborhood of warehouses and auto body repair shops about a mile north of downtown, South Lake Union is now home to Amazon's headquarters in the Vulcan development. One of them, Spear Street Capital, a San Francisco real estate investment company, started work in November on a six-story, 130,000-square-foot office building.
''You don't want to be the real estate guy who builds to the last cycle,'' said John S. Grassi, Spear Street Capital's president. ''You want to be part of the first wave, not the second or third wave.''
Spear Street is self-financing the building, as banks have been hesitant to lend to many commercial developers. Construction of large office towers financed by outside lenders probably will not start for at least a year, real estate brokers say.
The other developer is Skanska, the Swedish construction and development giant. The firm opened a development office in Seattle last year and now has two buildings in the planning stage. The city is one of four nationwide where Skanska is building, often without tenants, because more strong growth is forecast. The other cities are Boston, Houston and Washington.
More office towers may be on the way for South Lake Union. The city is considering significant increases on height limits on office and residential buildings in the area to accommodate more jobs and residents to the city. Mr. Allen is a prominent supporter.
Skanska is betting the zoning will change. Although its building site in South Lake Union is capped at six or seven stories, Skanska is moving ahead with plans to start work on a 12-story building early next year. The developer bought the half-block for $11.6 million and expects plenty of tenants when the building opens, scheduled for 2014.
Lisa Picard, the executive vice president of Skanska USA Commercial Development in Seattle, said one reason for the company's optimism was Amazon's rapid growth. ''Amazon certainly has been absorbing all the free space,'' Ms. Picard said, ''and it's been a creative challenge for companies to find quality space.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Buildings to be occupied by Amazon.com are under construction in Seattle, where the company is planning to double its square footage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: PAUL ALLEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



243 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Cites Emergency In Finances

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Suffolk may be one of the richest counties in America, but it risks running out of money next month, its top elected official said Tuesday.
''This is, without question, the worst fiscal crisis in the history of the county,'' said Steven Bellone, the Suffolk County executive, who declared a financial emergency on Tuesday after receiving a report on the county's finances by an outside panel of experts.
''It's the first time in more than two decades that we'll be ending the fiscal year in a deficit,'' he said. The county last ended a year in deficit in 1991, when it also declared a financial emergency. 
The emergency declaration gives the county the power to withhold 10 percent of the money allotted to each department of government. It does not involve establishing a fiscal control board, which would require state legislation.
''The numbers are in the area where control boards have been put in place'' in other counties, Mr. Bellone said. ''But we're going to work very hard to avoid that.''
Suffolk County's more affluent next-door neighbor, Nassau County, has had a control board since 2000, whose dealings with the county have been rocky. The board seized control of Nassau's finances in January 2011, saying the county had failed to balance its $2.7 billion budget. The Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, sued, accusing the board of overreaching and treating the county unfairly because he is a Republican. A court dismissed most of Mr. Mangano's complaints.
Mr. Bellone said he had been shocked to learn that Suffolk County faced a deficit this year, because just two months ago it had reported a balanced budget. The new independent report said the deficit would grow sharply next year unless the county took action.
Mr. Bellone said he would leave it to others to determine whether anyone had falsified county records to hide the deficit now coming into view. The county's audited financial statement for 2011 is expected in a few weeks.
In the meantime, he said, the county laid off 12 lawyers so it could hire financial officials who will look for ways of delivering county services more efficiently.
Mr. Bellone, who was elected last November, said he sought an outside financial review in January because he wanted to know how bad the county's problems were. The seven-member task force found that Suffolk County's expenses had been rising every year, in particular because residents required more public services during recessions.
At the same time, revenues have not kept up. Suffolk County gets 45 percent of its revenue from sales taxes, and those dived in 2008 and have not yet climbed all the way back. An additional 22 percent of the county's revenue comes from real estate taxes, which were hurt after the housing bubble burst.
To close the gap, the county has been drawing down reserves for the last few years. Now its ''rainy day'' money is almost gone, and it cannot increase property taxes to solve its problems because New York State has capped property tax increases.
The county has resorted to issuing various types of short-term debt to finance day-to-day operations. That is a tool that New York City used in 1974 in its unsuccessful attempts to stave off the fiscal crisis of 1975.
''I don't necessarily say that this is like New York City, but I think it's clear that the county is facing financial challenges,'' said Geordie Thompson, a vice president and senior credit analyst at Moody's Investors Service.
Moody's took the unusual step of downgrading Suffolk County's short-term debt in December, and it has put the county's general-obligation bonds on review for a possible downgrade.
''Everybody always thought Suffolk County was doing O.K.,'' Mr. Bellone said. ''It turns out that was not accurate at all. In fact, Suffolk County has got a real crisis on its hands.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); AUDITS (72%); SALES TAX (69%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



244 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: SUNY's Chief, on Remedial Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Better Chance to Succeed'' (editorial, March 3) calls for less reliance on remedial education at the college level, but it is shortsighted to place that responsibility solely on the shoulders of community colleges. Instead, we should recognize the need for partnership between K-12 and higher education. 
In January, the State University of New York announced its commitment to using this cradle-to-career approach in closing the remediation gap, which costs our community colleges $70 million a year. This means working together to eliminate the need for remediation before students even arrive at one of our campuses.
Communities must join forces to strengthen the curriculum, evaluate proficiency earlier and address those weaknesses with new programs like ''summer boot camp.'' Once students are enrolled and truly in need of remediation, we will work to achieve the best possible results by improving student advising, standardizing placement policies across the system, and carrying out best practices in enabling students to achieve the skills they need.
And we would be remiss as a public university not to address the financial burden remediation places on students. Twenty percent -- or $93 million -- of financial aid awarded to our community college students goes toward remedial classes. Re-evaluating existing student aid programs, expanding educational opportunity programs and ensuring cost-effective delivery of remedial courses is a top priority for those carrying out remediation reforms.
All this is to say that President Obama has got it right. Community colleges are indeed perfectly positioned to prepare America's work force for the newly competitive job market of a global economy. By working within partnerships that span the education pipeline, SUNY stands ready to use its ''systemness'' in taking that commitment to scale.
NANCY L. ZIMPHER Chancellor State University of New York Albany, March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BEST PRACTICES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); LABOR FORCE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



245 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: An Architect Of a Deal Sees Greece As a Model

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
MADRID -- Now that Greece is close to completing the largest bond write-off on record, should other debt-plagued nations in Europe follow its lead?
That thought is anathema to most policy makers in Europe, where the main stock indexes were down more than 3 percent for the day on Greek jitters and gloomy new data on the global economy. European officials hold the view that Greece's debt problems are unique and that there is no need for countries like Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Italy to push creditors to accept losses on their holdings.
But the intellectual fathers of Greece's intricate bond swap beg to differ.
Mitu Gulati, a charismatic law professor at Duke, and Lee C. Buchheit, the philosopher king of sovereign debt lawyers and a lead adviser to Greece on the deal, see themselves as sovereign debt taboo-busters. And they are not shy about pressing their views, as Mr. Gulati did with characteristic wit at a sovereign debt conference here last week. 
Instead of presenting an arcane paper on debt guarantees, Mr. Gulati titillated his audience by calling for other heavily indebted countries in Europe to carry out their own Greek-style swaps, albeit with smaller haircuts for creditors because the other nations are not as deeply indebted as Athens is.
''Lee probably could not say this, but I can because I don't have clients,'' Mr. Gulati said with a chuckle, as he offered his apologies that Mr. Buchheit could not attend. ''Although I wish these were the views of Lee's clients.''
During his 35-plus years at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, in New York, Mr. Buchheit has secured groundbreaking debt restructuring deals in numerous countries in Latin America, and more recently in Iraq and Iceland.
Mr. Gulati's argument was fairly straightforward. Instead of repeated bailouts and a lost decade of austerity in Southern Europe, countries should at least soften the blow by cutting a deal directly with their creditors to reduce their debt loads.
Indeed, he argued, no time is better than now, with investors fearing that some other country -- Portugal, in the eyes of many -- will copy Greece's move to unilaterally impose so-called collective action clauses that require even reluctant bondholders to go along with the majority on a deal.
Portugal's finance minister has said in interviews that his country plans to fully honor its debts. But investors' skepticism is presumably a reason that the yields on Portugal's long-term bonds have risen by two percentage points in the last two weeks.
No one suggests that the steps Mr. Gulati is recommending would come easily. And he joked that his friends at the European Central Bank have urged him not to spread this idea too widely.
''I asked them, 'Why not?' '' Mr. Gulati recounted. ''And they said, 'Because then everyone will do it.' ''
By any measure, Mr. Gulati and his longtime mentor, Mr. Buchheit, have become the most potent double act now playing on the sovereign debt circuit. It was their joint paper in May 2010 that first proposed a way for Greece to force investors who reject a deal to suffer the same loss as those who agreed.
Greece, which hired Mr. Buchheit and his team of lawyers last July, has followed this strategy to the letter. On Thursday night Greece will disclose what percentage of investors have agreed to the deal. It is widely expected that the collective action clause will be invoked to reach the official target of 95 percent participation.
''Lee has seen this movie many times before,'' said Petros Christodoulou, the director general of Greece's debt management agency. ''He is always five steps ahead of the game.''
On the face of it, the two debt exorcists are a bit of an odd couple. Mr. Gulati, 44, is a bond contract specialist who enjoys digging into the ins and outs of negative pledges, pari passu and other boilerplate arcana. He skillfully cloaks his power resume -- Harvard Law and a clerkship with Samuel A. Alito Jr. before he became a Supreme Court justice -- with a slightly slouchy demeanor. He delivered his address last week while wearing chinos and a casual pullover.
Mr. Buchheit, a graduate of Middlebury College in Vermont, with law degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and Cambridge, is 61 and has more of an old-world mien with his dapper mustache, nicely cut suits and gentlemanly manner.
Mr. Buchheit is recovering from an illness and could not be interviewed for this article.
''Everyone in this field is a D.O.B.'' -- disciple of Buchheit -- ''whether they like it or not,'' said Adam Lerrick, a sovereign debt expert at the American Enterprise Institute. ''Lee has spent his career trying to create a system where debtor countries and their creditors can restructure government debt without intervention by the official sector.''
The tools of Mr. Buchheit's trade -- collective action clauses, exit consents and trust indentures -- may be complex, but they serve a basic aim: giving a debtor country the necessary leverage to compel all of its unhappy creditors to accept losses on their holdings when necessary and thus achieve meaningful debt relief.
Which doesn't earn Mr. Buchheit popularity among bondholders. Many of them see him as an evil genius, confecting legal tricks that make it easier for indebted countries to shirk their financial obligations -- and in the process saddle investors with losses.
So what does it feel like to be on the other side of the table with a Buchheit client?
''Brutal,'' said Hans Humes of Greylock Capital, who agreed this week, along with representatives of 11 other financial institutions, to accept an effective 75 percent loss on the value of his Greek bonds. ''Creditors have less recourse when he is involved -- but that is his job.''
Mr. Buchheit's most recent move was to figure out how to take advantage of the fact that Greece's bonds were governed by local law, as a way to drive a hard line with creditors.
Mr. Gulati, who worked for Mr. Buchheit in 1994 as a junior lawyer before moving to academia, says that the notion was first raised by one of his students. The student noticed that under local law the contracts of Greek bonds did not contain collective action clauses and other provisions that one usually finds in foreign law bond contracts to explain what will happen if a debtor cannot fully pay an obligation.
Mr. Gulati and Mr. Buchheit were perplexed. How could Greece restructure its debt without the necessary tools?
Then the answer hit them. Far from being a disadvantage, the fact that Greek bond contracts were in effect amendment-free meant that smart lawyers like Mr. Buchheit could custom-design a collective action clause in Greece's favor.
In their May 2010 paper the two men argued that Greece was actually in a better position than any country in modern history to achieve meaningful debt reduction. The paper was little noticed at the time, especially because European leaders were then refusing to accept even the possibility of a debt restructuring.
But a clever campaign of media outreach and global conference-hopping by the two soon brought the idea to a wider audience. Eventually the Greek Finance Ministry came calling.
In many ways, Mr. Buchheit's prodigious publishing output makes him more of a deal professor than a deal maker.
Sean Hagan, the top lawyer for the International Monetary Fund, says that the Greek debt deal is just the latest example of Buchheit blue sky thinking's becoming policy. ''Lee has shaped the law in this area,'' he said.
Still, as the latest act in the Greek debt drama approaches its climax there is no sign yet that other countries are ready to adopt the Buchheit-Gulati model. At the conference in Madrid, a senior official from Spain's central bank took immediate issue with Mr. Gulati's debt swap proposal, calling it ''very risky'' and wrongheaded in every way.
In Portugal, where Mr. Gulati is teaching a class this week and many see a debt restructuring as inevitable, officials continue to insist that the country's debt burden is manageable. Investors, however, appear unconvinced. The country's 10-year bond yield has almost doubled to 13.5 percent since Portugal's 78 billion-euro bailout, then worth $116 billion, last spring.
With markets already pricing in a debt restructuring of some sort in Portugal, a voluntary haircut would probably not spur a broader rout. For larger countries like Spain and especially Italy, however, the contagion risk would be greater from an attempt to renegotiate the terms of debt.
Nonetheless, Mr. Gulati argues, the longer that deeply indebted countries postpone the inevitable, the more expensive the ultimate bill to taxpayers will be.
''Let's show everyone that we have learned something from Greece's suffering,'' he said. ''But our time to do this is limited.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An abandoned construction site in Funchal, Portugal, on the island of Madeira. Portugal is seen as a debt restructuring candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
 Mitu Gulati, left, a law professor at Duke, and Lee C. Buchheit, a lawyer in New York, wrote about Greece's debt crisis in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEGAN MORR/DUKE PHOTOGRAPHY) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); INTERVIEWS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (89%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (89%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ICELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



246 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, an Actor Turns Grocer

BYLINE: By JANE BLACK

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS
Had Emeril's Delmonico been open for lunch, Wendell Pierce would probably have ordered the duck confit leg, served with a creamy barley risotto, roasted beets and snap peas. Instead, Mr. Pierce, a star of the HBO series ''Treme,'' ended up a few blocks away at Houston's, where -- given his perennial dieting -- he made do with clam chowder and steamed spinach.
It was hardly a quintessential New Orleans meal. And Mr. Pierce, who grew up here, apologized for taking an out-of-town reporter to a chain restaurant in a city known for its culinary traditions. ''You would love the Bon Ton,'' he crooned in his deep baritone, referring to the historic Cajun joint that is famous for its Rum Ramsey cocktail. ''And you would love Olivier's. They have a 100-year-old rabbit recipe from Mr. Olivier. It is so good.''
Food has always been important to the portly actor, who first drew national acclaim in the role of Detective Bunk Moreland on another HBO series, ''The Wire,'' and now plays the trombonist Antoine Batiste on ''Treme,'' which is filming episodes in New Orleans for broadcast next fall. 
His mother raised him on a diet of bayou classics like okra with shrimp, and he has been a gustatory adventurer ever since, seeking out dishes like Creole tacos at Juan's Flying Burrito or the grilled octopus at El Pote Espanol in New York, where he lives for part of the year.
Many celebrities with a taste for good food veer into the restaurant business, but Mr. Pierce has taken a different tack. This summer, he and two business partners plan to open a grocery store called Sterling Farms, the first of several in New Orleans's low-income neighborhoods, where supermarkets are scarce.
In December, they opened Sterling Express, the first in a convenience store chain that will sell fresh produce, salads and competitively priced staples in addition to the usual chips and sodas.
In intriguing -- and intended -- ways, his effort to bring more-nutritious fare to an urban food desert parallels the TV series, which charts New Orleans's struggle to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina.
''Bringing fresh food into these areas helps create economic growth,'' Mr. Pierce said. ''But it also helps people understand that there's value in eating better. It's not something that's only available in a better neighborhood.''
Since Katrina devastated the city in August 2005, New Orleans has reclaimed its place as one of America's prime food destinations. Many of the old standby restaurants have reopened, and new ones -- like Scott Boswell's pan-European Stella and John Besh's Domenica -- cater to the influx of younger residents and tourists with a taste for global flavors.
But grocery stores have not rebounded in the same way. Before the storm, there were 30 in New Orleans; today, there are 21. Most that have reopened are in wealthier neighborhoods: a Tulane University survey in 2007, the latest data available, found that nearly 60 percent of low-income residents had to travel more than three miles to reach a supermarket, though only 58 percent owned a car.
In the Lower Ninth Ward, one of the hardest-hit areas, the only stores within walking distance are dollar stores, which sell staples like eggs, milk and meat, but few fresh fruits and vegetables. ''Grocery stores are a very basic need, but they are especially important in New Orleans,'' said John Weidman, deputy executive director of the Food Trust, a Philadelphia nonprofit group that is working with the City of New Orleans to allocate $14 million of public and private money to encourage markets to return. ''One of the things we've heard is that people who left the city are waiting for grocery stores to come back. It's a signal that things are back on track.''
Mr. Pierce, 48, grew up in Pontchartrain Park, one of the first suburban-style subdivisions developed for and by African-Americans after World War II, when New Orleans was still racially segregated by law.
But the neighborhood, born from the ugliness of separate-but-equal, blossomed into something beautiful, a ''black Mayberry,'' Mr. Pierce recalled.
More than 90 percent of families owned their own homes. Children rode bikes after school around the central golf course. Everyone knew everyone. Growing up, he jokes, his last name might as well have been ''Mrs. Pierce's son'' as in: ''Oh, you're Wendell, Mrs. Pierce's son.''
By the 1950s and '60s, the neighborhood was home to the city's rising African-American middle class. New Orleans's first black mayor, Ernest N. Morial, known as Dutch, grew up there, as did Eddie J. Jordan Jr., the city's first black district attorney, and the current Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Lisa P. Jackson.
One of Mr. Pierce's treasured childhood memories is shopping on Friday nights with his mother at the local grocery store, Schwegmann's. The chain was one of the first to sell everything -- toys, jewelry and food -- under one roof. He remembers his mother's picking over the okra and peppers, and needling the fishmonger to cut her red drum just as she liked it.
At home, Mrs. Pierce made sure her two sons learned to cook. Though he admits his shrimp and okra isn't as good as his mother's, he coyly suggests that he has impressed quite a few guests with his kitchen skills. ''To this day, that's my little rap,'' he said. ''Oh, my man can cook? Yeah, baby. I cook.''
Mr. Pierce never intended to get into the food business. He attended the competitive specialty arts high school, Nocca, in New Orleans, and later the Juilliard School. His dream was to become a successful actor, a goal that was well on its way to being realized when Katrina ravaged Pontchartrain Park.
He returned to the city with the intention of rebuilding the house he grew up in, which was under 14 feet of water. But it wasn't long, he says, before neighbors asked him to help restore the entire area.
In 2008, Mr. Pierce, in partnership with Troy Henry, his childhood friend and a New Orleans businessman, announced that they would build 300 solar-paneled, geothermal, low-cost homes in Pontchartrain Park for those who had lost everything.
The effort, as ''Treme'' fans might expect, has moved forward haltingly, slowed by city politics and bureaucratic delays. To date, only 10 homes have been built, and the goal has been slashed to 150.
Friends, he says, encouraged him to get back to his ''real'' life. But memories of those Friday nights at Schwegmann's made him realize that reviving the neighborhood would require more than new homes. How could he ask people to move back if there was nowhere to shop? ''You start to realize all the parts of infrastructure that are needed,'' he said.
Mr. Pierce's first pitch for a grocery store was to his partner, Mr. Henry. ''My first response was, 'We're way too busy,' '' Mr. Henry recalled. ''But if you know anything about Wendell, you know he doesn't take 'no' very well.''
None of the Sterling Farms stores will serve Pontchartrain Park. (The two partners and a third, James Hatchett, lost the bid to redevelop the commercial strip where Schwegmann's once sat.) Instead, the first full-service grocery store will open in a former Winn-Dixie in Marrero, La., a suburb across the Mississippi where 26 percent of households have an income of less than $25,000 annually, and 55 percent earn less than $50,000.
How will Sterling Farms make it in neighborhoods where other grocery stores fear to tread?
The depressed city's low real estate costs will help, Mr. Henry said. In the Marrero store, instead of a fixed monthly rent, the company will pay 2 percent of sales that exceed $9 million annually, allowing it to build the business.
Sterling Farms will look like most other conventional grocers, with a deli, bakery, seafood counter and as many as 40,000 items. But it also will cater to the special needs of low-income shoppers. The store will offer a free shuttle to anyone who spends $50 or more, so they need not walk or take the bus with heavy bags. Each month, the store plans a cookout (which in New Orleans usually means a crayfish boil) to raise money for the community.
Still, no one, least of all Mr. Pierce, expects such an ambitious project to go entirely smoothly. Years of working on ''The Wire'' and ''Treme,'' shows that spotlight systemic failure and bureaucratic incompetence, have taught him to be wary of relying on public money and timetables. ''It's life imitating art, and art imitating life,'' Mr. Pierce said. ''The shows influence me, and the work I do influences the shows.''
Mr. Pierce is convinced that to preserve its food culture, New Orleans needs good grocery stores as much as restaurants. ''When I think of Sterling Farms, I remember those Friday nights with my mother,'' he said. ''That communal thing of actually going to get the fresh food that you are going to cook and eat together. That's a memory. As corny as it sounds, it feeds the soul as much as the body.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FAST AND NUTRITIOUS: Wendell Pierce at one of his Sterling Express convenience stores in New Orleans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL GERBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DIETING (76%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); HURRICANES (60%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



247 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED, PETER EAVIS, MARK SCOTT and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
LOSSES MOUNT Pulses may be quickening at Paulson & Company, the hedge fund giant, after one of the firm's main funds lost 1.5 percent in February.
Given the history of the fund, which lost more than 50 percent in 2011, the month could be a scary reminder of the dark days. With the catastrophic losses of 2011, the firm, founded by John A. Paulson, above, will now have to make more than 100 percent in investment gains to reclaim the lost ground. AZAM AHMED 
ASSESSING A BAILOUT With Greece's debt restructuring scheduled to begin on Thursday, it's worth asking how much relief the country may actually get from the deal.
A crucial aim of Greece's rescue package is to reduce the amount the country owes so that by 2020 its debt is equivalent to 120.5 percent of its gross domestic product. However, economists at the Royal Bank of Scotland said Tuesday that they expected the ratio to end up at 160 percent, a risky level. PETER EAVIS
PARTNERSHIP Kohlberg Kravis Roberts is teaming up with the Chesapeake Energy Corporation to invest in oil and natural gas projects in the United States.
The companies will invest $250 million in the effort, with K.K.R. providing 90 percent of the cash. ''We are uniquely well positioned to leverage our operating footprint to pursue profitable and related business opportunities,'' said Aubrey K. McClendon, above, chief executive of Chesapeake. MARK SCOTT
BOLSTERING THE RANKS Two boutique investment banks announced the hiring of longtime investment bankers on Tuesday.
Perella Weinberg Partners said that it had hired Charles G. Ward III, a former president at Lazard. Greenhill & Company, meanwhile, said it had hired Vikram Gandhi, a banker with a history of deal-making in Asia. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (82%); KKR & CO LP (82%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); GREENHILL & CO INC (66%)

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (82%); KKR (NYSE) (82%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); GHL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



248 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Dividends In Pressing Apple Over Labor

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
The American sweatshop opposition movement was born the day we discovered how our Nikes were stitched together. Two decades later, we are discovering how our cherished iPhones are made, giving Apple a ''Nike moment'' of its own.
Worker suicides at Apple's main Chinese supplier, Foxconn, in 2010, followed by reports of forced overtime, child labor, minimum wage violations and unsafe working conditions at its suppliers, have contrasted with Apple's status as creator of hallowed devices and its spectacular $13 billion in profit -- 30 percent of sales -- in the first quarter.
The reports have fueled a budding protest among students and labor unions who call for Apple to compel its suppliers in China to improve the conditions for hundreds of thousands of workers who assemble its products -- workers whose wages contribute a mere $10 to the cost of a contract-free $549 iPhone 4.
But if the troubling conditions at Foxconn's assembly lines raise anew fundamental questions about the responsibility of corporations in this age of global capitalism, the outcry raises a basic question too. Does pressure by consumers and governments in the West to improve multinationals' behavior in poor countries do more harm than good? 
Sweatshop opposition in the past offers limited hope. But Apple is different in some ways than the garment and shoemakers of earlier campaigns. Its high profile and deep pockets suggest that consumer pressure might indeed effect change for workers at Apple's suppliers in China.
In the 1990s, when the anti-sweatshop movement was going strong, Paul Krugman, before he became a columnist for The New York Times, wrote that ''as long as you have no realistic alternative to industrialization based on low wages, to oppose it means that you are willing to deny desperately poor people the best chance they have of progress for the sake of what amounts to an aesthetic standard -- that is, the fact that you don't like the idea of workers being paid a pittance to supply rich Westerners with fashion items.''
Today, globalization has a decidedly better track record than its alternative. Countries that receive lots of multinational investment have grown faster. They report less poverty and less use of child labor.
China is an example of globalization's benefits. Foreign investment has surged over the last 20 years, driving spectacular economic growth. Wages in the nonfarm sector have risen 10 percent a year in real terms over the last decade, according to Nicholas Lardy of the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
The nation's poverty rate, measured by the share of the population living on less than $1.25 a day, fell to 17 percent by the middle of the last decade, from 64 percent in the early 1990s, according to World Bank statistics. In Bangladesh, ignored by foreign capital, half of the population live in abject poverty, roughly the same share as in 1981. As Joan Robinson, a British economist, noted half a century ago, ''the misery of being exploited by capitalists is nothing compared to the misery of not being exploited at all.''
This poses a quandary for would-be activists in the West. They see their task as convincing multinationals like Apple that whatever the cost of improved working conditions at its suppliers' plants, it is less than the potential cost to its reputation of allowing workers to toil in sweatshop conditions. But they must not forget that the No. 1 priority for most of Foxconn's workers is to keep their job. While outside pressure might improve their lives, it could also persuade Foxconn to replace them.
The anti-sweatshop movement's origins can be traced to late 1980s Indonesia, a global hub of the apparel and footwear business. Reports of violations of workers' rights at Indonesian suppliers to big brands like Nike and Reebok led unions and human rights groups to press the United States to suspend Indonesian trade preferences. Articles about women stitching Nikes in dismal conditions for 91 cents a day appeared in the press, mobilizing campaigns against the apparel giant.
For a while it seemed that activism could win the day: the Indonesian minimum wage rose from less than 80 cents to about $1.80 a day from 1990 to 1996. Wages at factories for brand-name sneakers rose even faster, as the brands forced suppliers to comply with the wage floor. Nike issued a code of conduct requiring suppliers to adhere to labor, health and environmental standards. Many othervictories followed, with big brands repeatedly acceding to demands that they enforce better working conditions at their suppliers' plants across the third world.
But in time, many of the victories of consumer activism turned a little sour. Though Indonesian factories that stitched sneakers for big brands like Nike did add jobs in the 1990s, despite the sharply higher wages, economists reported significant job losses throughout the economy. Activists bemoan the fact that even when they persuade brands to press their suppliers to improve working conditions, victories turn to defeat when suppliers try to pass on the additional cost of higher wages, shorter hours or increased benefits.
''When brands get caught at one facility, and pressure is brought to bear, they can be forced to push for changes at that facility,'' said Scott Nova, executive director of the Workers Rights Consortium, which monitors working conditions at plants that make college-brand clothes. ''However, if those changes raise costs and slow delivery times, it is easy enough, a year or two down the road, for the brand to reduce orders at that factory in favor of others.''
The most telling commentary on the effectiveness of the anti-sweatshop movement is the prevalence, years later, of dismal working conditions and illegally low wages at many suppliers of the world's large multinational brands
Apple's critics should not despair, however. Despite failures and drawbacks, activists have made progress.
For one thing, they have persuaded major brands and retailers to take responsibility for working conditions along their supplier pipeline -- something unheard-of two decades ago. And the anti-sweatshop movement has contributed to improvements in workers' lives in concrete ways, forcing better compliance with health and safety norms and reducing the most egregious forms of harassment.
But the most promising consideration for critics is just how different Apple is from the companies singled out by the anti-sweatshop movement of the 1990s.
For starters, Apple's enormous profit margins -- owing to the great popularity of the inimitable products it sells -- vastly outstrip the thin margins prevalent in the garment and footwear industry and make it much easier for the company to absorb the cost of improving worker conditions at its suppliers.
What's more, supplier contracts in the electronic industry tend to be much longer than the three-month terms common in the apparel business. This gives Apple a much bigger stake in the long-term success of Foxconn as a supplier, and makes it less attractive to cut and run to a cheaper option.
And Apple's vaunted ability to make suppliers twirl on a dime to satisfy its most exacting specifications in the shortest possible time suggests the company would have little trouble imposing rules on wages or workers' rights.
Consumer pressure and bad publicity have already led Apple to make some big changes. In 2005 it created a code of conduct for its suppliers, monitored regularly. Last month it became the first electronics company to join the Fair Labor Association, a group set up in 1999 by companies, universities and nonprofit groups to monitor working conditions at garment makers in the third world. Over the last two years, Foxconn has announced repeated wage increases at its plant in Shenzhen.
These are early days. Who knows, if activists keep up the pressure, they might help lead to significant improvements in the lives of Foxconn's workers and make us feel better about how our iPhones are made.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protester, Dana Johnsen of Santa Clara, Calif., outside Apple's shareholder meeting last month in Cupertino. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BECK DIEFENBACH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWEATSHOPS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); CHILD LABOR (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); OVERTIME (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POVERTY RATES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); WRITERS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



249 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 856 words

PERSON: Donald M. Payne 

HEADLINE: Donald Payne, Congressman From New Jersey, Dies at 77

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Representative Donald M. Payne, a former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus who achieved a long-held goal of becoming the first black congressman from New Jersey, died on Tuesday in Livingston, N.J. He was 77.
The cause was complications of colon cancer, his office said. He died at St. Barnabas Medical Center. 
Mr. Payne, a Democrat, announced his cancer diagnosis in February but ruled out taking a leave of absence, saying he planned to seek re-election because his doctors expected him to make a full recovery.
He had declared his ambition to become New Jersey's first black congressman as early as 1974, when he was an Essex County legislator. But he was defeated in 1980 and 1986 in primary races to unseat Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the longtime dean of the state's Congressional delegation and a popular figure in the heavily Democratic and largely black 10th Congressional District, which includes sections of Essex, Hudson and Union Counties.
It was not until Mr. Rodino chose not to seek a 21st term, in 1988, that Mr. Payne saw his opportunity. ''I want to be a congressman to serve as a role model for the young people I talk to on the Newark street corners,'' Mr. Payne said at the time. ''I want them to see there are no barriers to achievement. I want to give them a reason to try.''
In the general election, he handily defeated his Republican opponent, Michael Webb, by a vote of 83,520 to 13,511.
''Nothing is as powerful as a dream whose time has come,'' Mr. Payne said after the victory. ''Sometimes a political leader is marching a little in front or a little behind the people. But once in a while the marcher and the drumbeat are in exactly the same cadence, and then, finally, good things happen.''
He had voiced that sentiment two years earlier, in his second bid to unseat Mr. Rodino, maintaining that a largely black district was entitled to be represented by one of its own. After his 1988 victory, Mr. Payne said he was aware of how Mr. Rodino had been a source of pride for Italian-Americans, earning national recognition as chairman of the House Judiciary Committee during impeachment proceedings against President Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Payne said he wanted to instill the same kind of pride in blacks.
In Congress, Mr. Payne was a low-key and unassuming presence who nonetheless made a mark in a number of areas, including education and global affairs.
A former teacher, he advanced policies that sought to make college more affordable. He led efforts to cut interest rates on Stafford loans for college students and increase the size of need-based Pell grants.
As a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, he wrote legislation that sought to provide famine relief to the war-torn Darfur region of Sudan. He was also a founder of the Malaria Caucus in Congress and helped secure billions of dollars in foreign aid for treating H.I.V., AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
In a statement, President Obama said Mr. Payne had ''made it his mission to fight for working families.'' The state's governor, Chris Christie, called Mr. Payne ''a great role model for every person in New Jersey who aspires to public service.''
Donald Milford Payne was born on July 16, 1934, to William Evander Payne and the former Norma Garrett in Newark's predominantly Italian-American North Ward, in a section called Doodletown. His father held jobs as a chauffeur and a dockworker. ''I didn't have a black teacher all through elementary and high school, until my senior year,'' Mr. Payne once recalled.
A graduate of Seton Hall University, he taught English and social studies and coached football in Newark at South Side High School (now Malcolm X Shabazz High School). Before entering politics he held executive positions at the Prudential Insurance Company and Urban Data Systems, a computer forms company founded by his older brother, William. He was also the first black president of the National Council of Y.M.C.A.'s.
Mr. Payne developed a passion for politics early. At 19 he followed his brother into Democratic politics, running his successful campaign to become the North Ward's first black district leader. His brother was 21. In 1972, Mr. Payne was elected to the Essex County Board of Chosen Freeholders. A decade later, he won a seat on the Newark Municipal Council.
He was in his 12th term in the House when he died. In several of his later campaigns, he ran without any Republican opposition.
Mr. Payne was chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus from 1995 to 1997.
He married the former Hazel Johnson in 1958. She died in 1963. His survivors include a son, Donald Jr., a Newark councilman; two daughters, Wanda Payne and Nicole Payne; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Donald M. Payne at a news conference in 1994. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SCULL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (83%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CANCER (77%); COUNTIES (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); COLORECTAL CANCER (72%); STUDENT LOANS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); IMPEACHMENT (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

DONALD M PAYNE (92%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



250 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Global Powers Agree to Resume Nuclear Negotiations After an Iranian Offer

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and JAMES KANTER; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and James Kanter from Brussels. Reporting was contributed by Alan Cowell from London, Brian Knowlton from Washington, and Steven Erlanger and Alison Smale from Paris.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- For the first time in more than a year the global powers dealing with Iran's disputed nuclear program said Tuesday that they would resume face-to-face negotiations.
''I have offered to resume talks with Iran on the nuclear issue,'' said Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign affairs chief, who represents the United States, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany in dealings with Iran. ''We hope that Iran will now enter into a sustained process of constructive dialogue which will deliver real progress.''
The resumption of negotiations could relieve rising pressure from Israel to use military force against Iran. But the decision is not without risks. Direct talks could allow Iranian negotiators to exploit various nations' differences. Failure could offer a rationale for military strikes. 
Ms. Ashton's positive response to an Iranian offer made last month to resume the talks comes at a delicate moment in the years-long effort to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions. Her response came one day after President Obama urged Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to give diplomacy and economic sanctions a chance to work before taking military action.
The Israelis are increasingly skeptical that international pressure will lead Iran to abandon its uranium enrichment activities, which Israel and the West suspect are a cover for Iran to achieve the ability to make nuclear weapons. Iran has said the activities are purely peaceful.
At a news conference in Washington on Tuesday, Mr. Obama defended his record on Iran against Republican critics who have called him too lenient. On the contrary, Mr. Obama said, he had deeply isolated the Iranian authorities and had helped to press them to resume negotiations.
Fears of a pre-emptive Israeli attack on Iran's nuclear facilities have driven up oil prices and represent a threat to the already fragile state of a global economy still reeling from a sovereign debt crisis in Europe. At the same time, the Iranians have acutely felt the squeeze from sanctions aimed at pressing the government to freeze its uranium enrichment program.
The resumed talks represent a significant step forward because all six parties agreed to participate. But that may have been the easy part. One senior French official said that a desire to avoid a military confrontation could lead some parties to take a softer stance on Iran, looking for any small concession that could be interpreted as success.
''Tactically it's much better if you want to divide your enemies to be friendly and cozy with some of them,'' said Henning Riecke, an expert on European security at the German Council on Foreign Relations.
A senior French official described the Iranian letter proposing the resumption of talks as ambiguous, saying it referred to ''various nuclear issues'' rather than nuclear enrichment specifically. At the very least, it represents the first time that Iran's nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, explicitly mentioned the nuclear issue.
''We don't want to waste our time talking to the Iranians about the international cost of pistachios,'' the French official said.
Time is of the essence for negotiators because many fear that any stalling by Iran will give the country more time to relocate enrichment centrifuges deep inside mountain bunkers that are difficult to bomb.
There was little optimism in the West that talks would lead to significant breakthroughs, much less to an end to Iran's nuclear ambitions. Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, warned Iranian officials against using talks to stall.
Iran only damages its own interests through ''tactical maneuvering and playing for time,'' Mr. Westerwelle said.
But as fears of an Israeli strike have intensified in recent weeks, any progress was viewed as welcome. ''Our approach to sanctions has been proven to be the right one -- not targeted against population but meant to change the Iranian approach to the nuclear file,'' a senior European Union official who spoke on the condition of anonymity told reporters in Brussels.
''We don't want to have talks for talks,'' the official said. ''We want concrete results. They are very, very important talks, and we do not want them to fail.'' Another senior French official said that the United States and France ''have exactly the same approach.''
The British foreign secretary, William Hague, issued a statement reflecting that vision. ''We all agree that the international community should demonstrate its commitment to a diplomatic solution by acknowledging Iran's agreement to meet, by testing its desire to talk and by offering it the opportunity to respond to our legitimate concerns about its nuclear intentions,'' Mr. Hague said.
In a formal response letter sent Monday to Mr. Jalili, Ms. Ashton said that ''dialogue will have to focus on this key issue'' of the nuclear program. Now that Mr. Jalili has pledged to this, she wrote, talks can resume ''as soon as possible.''
But that will first require preliminary discussions between European and Iranian diplomats, possibly including a top aide to Mr. Jalili, that are expected to take place over the next two weeks to decide on details like a site for the talks, according to the European official. No formal negotiations would take place until after the New Year holiday in Iran this month, the official said. Talks could formally get under way in early April.
Hanging over the resumption of talks is deep concern about a rerun of previous negotiations in Istanbul that broke off in January 2011 when the Iranians resisted discussing the nuclear issue. In France, Bernard Valero, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, warned against a repeat of ''the experience of the fruitless discussions in Istanbul'' and underlined that Iran faced a ''united'' front from global powers.
Such a failure could increase the risk of military action, said Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council, an advocacy group in Washington.
''If you have talks going, it will make it much harder for the Netanyahu government to take military action,'' Mr. Parsi said. ''It is critical that the talks end up becoming a real negotiation, a real process, and not just another exchange of ultimatums. If the two sides fail to establish a process rather than just another meeting, the risk of war will rise significantly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Saeed Jalili, Iran's nuclear negotiator, made an offer last month to discuss ''various nuclear issues.'' The foreign affairs chief for the European Union has accepted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI KADOBNOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (71%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



251 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Israel's Best Friend

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The only question I have when it comes to President Obama and Israel is whether he is the most pro-Israel president in history or just one of the most.
Why? Because the question of whether Israel has the need and the right to pre-emptively attack Iran as it develops a nuclear potential is one of the most hotly contested issues on the world stage today. It is also an issue fraught with danger for Israel and American Jews, neither of whom want to be accused of dragging America into a war, especially one that could weaken an already frail world economy.
In that context, President Obama, in his interview with The Atlantic's Jeffrey Goldberg and in his address to Aipac, the pro-Israel lobby, offered the greatest support for Israel that any president could at this time: He redefined the Iran issue. He said -- rightly -- that it was not simply about Israel's security, but about U.S. national security and global security. 
Obama did this by making clear that allowing Iran to develop nuclear weapons and then ''containing'' it -- the way the U.S. contained the Soviet Union -- was not a viable option, because if Iran acquires a nuclear bomb, all the states around it would seek to acquire one as well. This would not only lead to a nuclear Middle East, but it would likely prompt other countries to hedge their commitments to the global Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The global nuclear black market would then come alive and we would see the dawning of a more dangerous world.
''Preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon isn't just in the interest of Israel, it is profoundly in the security interests of the United States,'' the president told The Atlantic. ''If Iran gets a nuclear weapon, this would run completely contrary to my policies of nonproliferation. The risks of an Iranian nuclear weapon falling into the hands of terrorist organizations are profound. ... It would also provide Iran the additional capability to sponsor and protect its proxies in carrying out terrorist attacks, because they are less fearful of retaliation. ... If Iran gets a nuclear weapon, I won't name the countries, but there are probably four or five countries in the Middle East who say, 'We are going to start a program, and we will have nuclear weapons.' And at that point, the prospect for miscalculation in a region that has that many tensions and fissures is profound. You essentially then duplicate the challenges of India and Pakistan fivefold or tenfold.'' In sum, the president added, ''The dangers of an Iran getting nuclear weapons that then leads to a free-for-all in the Middle East is something that I think would be very dangerous for the world.''
Every Israeli and friend of Israel should be thankful to the president for framing the Iran issue this way. It is important strategically for Israel, because it makes clear that dealing with the Iranian nuclear threat was not Israel's problem alone. And it is important politically, because this decision about whether to attack Iran is coinciding with the U.S. election. The last thing Israel or American friends of Israel -- Jewish and Christian -- want is to give their enemies a chance to claim that Israel is using its political clout to embroil America in a war that is not in its interest.
That could easily happen because backing for Israel today has never been more politicized. In recent years, Republicans have tried to make support for Israel a wedge issue that would enable them to garner a higher percentage of Jewish votes and campaign contributions, which traditionally have swung overwhelmingly Democratic. This has led to an arms race with the Democrats over who is more pro-Israel -- and over-the-top declarations, like Newt Gingrich's that the Palestinians ''are an invented people.''
And it could easily happen because money in politics has never been more important for running campaigns, and the Israel lobby -- both its Jewish and evangelical Christian wings -- has never been more influential, because of its ability to direct campaign contributions to supportive candidates.
As such, no one should want domestic electoral politics mixed up with the Iran decision, which is why it was so important that the president redefined the Iran problem as a global proliferation threat and grounded his decision-making in American realism, not politics.
Reports from the Aipac convention this week indicated that those advocating military action were getting the loudest cheers. I'd invite all those cheering to think about all the unintended and unanticipated consequences of the Iraq war or Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon. That's not a reason for paralysis. It's a reason to heed Obama's call to give diplomacy and biting sanctions a chance to work, while keeping the threat of force on the table.
If it comes to war, let it be because the ayatollahs were ready to sacrifice their whole economy to get a nuke and, therefore, America -- the only country that can truly take down Iran's nuclear program -- had to act to protect the global system, not just Israel. I respect that this is a deadly serious issue for Israel -- which has the right to act on its own -- but President Obama has built a solid strategic and political case for letting America take the lead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); LOBBYING (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



252 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Whether Struggling or Better Off, Many Voters Said Economy Was Their Main Issue

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY; Robbie Brown and Kim Severson contributed reporting from Atlanta, and Joan Felice Raymond from Willowick, Ohio.

 BODY:
Regardless of the financial condition of their state, voters in Tuesday's Republican primaries considered the economy the top issue influencing their choice.
And even though the debate in the last few weeks has often involved other issues -- like contraception, or women in combat, there was very little evidence of a gender gap among the leading candidates in several of the major states in play on Tuesday, and very few voters mentioned abortion as a deciding factor.
In Ohio, Mitt Romney was favored by better-educated, more affluent and older voters. Very conservative voters and those who strongly support the Tea Party backed Rick Santorum. Roman Catholics preferred Mr. Romney and evangelical Christians chose Mr. Santorum, who is Catholic, according to the exit poll. 
In Tennessee, Mr. Santorum secured the support of those with lower incomes, as well as very conservative voters and evangelical Christians, while those in higher income brackets favored Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney handily captured Massachusetts, winning a majority of voters in every group, including conservative groups that have been gravitating more often to Mr. Santorum. Although about half of the voters said the state's 2006 health insurance law -- which was put in place when Mr. Romney was governor -- went too far, they gave about 70 percent of their vote to him. Those who were better off financially tended to be the ones who expressed more dismay at the law's reach.
Newt Gingrich prevailed in his native state, Georgia, doing best with older and less educated voters and those who live in small towns and rural areas. Men and women backed Mr. Gingrich about equally. ''I'm a Georgia girl, and I just love Newt,'' said Patches Mongeon, 38, a wholesale accounts manager voting in Atlanta.
In Ohio, unemployment is at 7.7 percent, lower than the national rate of 8.3 percent. Still, more than half of voters in Ohio considered the economy the most important issue; about a quarter pointed to the federal budget deficit. About three-quarters said they were very worried about the direction of the nation's economy.
Among voters in Georgia, where the unemployment rate is above the national average and the foreclosure rate is one of the highest in the country, nearly 6 in 10 selected the economy as the top issue. It also mattered most for nearly 6 in 10 voters in Massachusetts, which has one of the highest median incomes and low unemployment. In Oklahoma, Vermont and Virginia, voters for whom the economy was the top issue also backed Mr. Romney.
More than 7 in 10 voters said the price of gas was an important factor in their vote. Less affluent voters were more likely to say that gas prices affected their vote choice, particularly in Georgia.
Although Mr. Romney had trouble in Georgia and Tennessee with very conservative voters, he did win a majority of the primarygoers in Georgia with an advanced degree and of the voters whose family income was over $200,000. Both of these groups also favored Mr. Romney in Tennessee, as did, moderates, Tea Party opponents, those favoring abortion rights and those looking for a candidate who can beat Obama.
In the earlier contests, Ron Paul did very well with younger voters -- getting a sizable portion of those under 30 in some states, where he received a smaller percentage of the overall vote than other candidates.
Tuesday was no exception. About 3 in 10 under 30 in Ohio and Tennessee voted for Mr. Paul. In Virginia, where he and Mr. Romney were the only candidates on the ballot, Mr. Paul received more than 60 percent of the votes of those under 30 (in fact about 60 percent of those under 45). The ''younger'' vote, however, does not have much of an impact in the Republican primaries -- about 10 percent or less in the contests on Tuesday were under 30.
''He's the only candidate talking about limiting the size of government, reducing the debt and maintaining personal liberties,'' said Matt Martin, 29, a youth minister in Smyrna, Ga., who voted with his toddler and infant in tow. ''All the other choices are votes for more government and more big government.''
Although Mr. Romney was regarded as the conservative alternative to John McCain when he ran for the nomination four years ago, many voters on Tuesday saw Mr. Romney as not conservative enough. At the same time, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Paul were seen as too conservative. Mr. Gingrich was the only candidate whose positions were selected as ''about right'' by most primary voters.
Fred Russo, 70, and his wife, Estelle, 65, also came to the polls to vote for Mr. Romney at St. Mary Magdalene Catholic Church in Willowick, Ohio, a small suburb about 20 miles east of Cleveland. ''I would prefer someone more conservative, but it's important to beat Obama,'' he said.
In earlier primaries, with the exception of South Carolina, Mr. Romney did best with voters who were looking for a candidate who can defeat President Obama. On Tuesday, 4 in 10 of those voters backed Mr. Romney in Tennessee, while a third voted for Mr. Gingrich. Almost half of these voters backed Mr. Gingrich in Georgia, but almost as many supported Mr. Romney in Oklahoma.
In the rest of the states on Tuesday, Mr. Romney received a majority. The exit polls were conducted by Edison Research for a consortium of the television networks and The Associated Press and included in-person interviews with voters as they were leaving polling places across the state and telephone interviews with early and absentee voters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOWARD YOUNG, 87 (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JAMES HURD, 37
JOAN ROY, 83 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN McGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MARY E. GARNA, 77
CHRISTOPHER SMITH, 25 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CAROL TURNER, 71 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
WALTER MCGILL, 67
WAYNE L. ERWIN, 81 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VINCENT JOHNS, 65 (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK OXFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); ABORTION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); INSURANCE LAW (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); INSURANCE (51%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (51%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



253 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Santorum and Romney Court Blue-Collar Voters in Ohio

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Canton, Ohio, and Allison Kopicki from New York .

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Republicans cast their votes in 10 states on Tuesday to help decide how to award the biggest batch of delegates so far in the party's presidential nominating contest, with Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum engaged in a particularly competitive fight in Ohio.
If Mr. Romney defeats Mr. Santorum in the bellwether primary here, it will be in no small part because he managed to win over one of the most hotly contested and elusive segments of the electorate: white working-class voters.
At a metal works in Canton and a welding factory in Youngstown, in mailboxes and on the radio, Mr. Romney's intense focus on these Republican-leaning voters was in evidence on Monday as he made his closing appeal in Ohio - if not as an everyman, then at least as a chief executive who knows how to generate blue-collar jobs and get factories running again.
''Other people in this race have debated about the economy, they've read about the economy, they've talked about it in subcommittee meetings, but I've actually been in it,'' Mr. Romney told workers at a guardrail factory in Canton, where he walked among huge coils of steel. ''I understand what it takes to get business successful, and to thrive.'' 
Introducing a new slogan - ''more jobs, less debt, smaller government'' - Mr. Romney's factory visits were not just about the Ohio primary. They were part of a broader strategy, hatched at his Boston headquarters, to fight Mr. Santorum for both working-class voters and conservatives on what aides consider to be Mr. Romney's turf, the economy, rather than on social issues.
And while Mr. Romney's immediate goal is a strong showing in Ohio, one of 10 Super Tuesday states and a crucial test of whether Mr. Santorum can remain a credible challenger for the nomination, he is also seeking to prove he can maintain his party's traditional advantage among working-class voters in a general election matchup with President Obama.
Mr. Santorum, who has mixed his faith-based appeal with a workingman's sensibility born of his Pennsylvania coal and steel country roots, was not about to cede that ground.
At Dayton Christian School in Miamisburg on Monday, he urged a capacity crowd to vote for ''a guy who grew up in a steel town in western Pennsylvania who no one gave any chance to be standing here in Ohio in March, because he went out and believed in free people'' and in ''building a stronger economy based on manufacturing.''
Noting that Mr. Romney's far better-financed campaign had vastly outspent him in Ohio, he added: ''Money's not going to buy this election. The best ideas and believing in the American people is going to win this election.''
Mr. Santorum's success with working-class voters in some states, notably Iowa and Michigan, has helped expose Mr. Romney's potential vulnerabilities with them. Mr. Romney's background as a wealthy private-equity manager and some of his off-the-cuff remarks - like his comment at Daytona two weekends ago that ''I have some great friends who are Nascar team owners'' - have only emphasized his challenge in connecting with blue-collar voters.
Advisers inside and outside Mr. Romney's campaign headquarters had grown alarmed that such comments had opened him up to criticism that he was an elitist. But those concerns coincided with a recognition that a prolonged diversion into social conservative touchstones - abortion and contraception - had diverted the campaign from its core economic message, giving Mr. Santorum an opening.
The aides concluded that the only way for Mr. Romney to improve his performance among these critical voters was to spend less time talking about the modest upbringing of his father, who went on to become the governor of Michigan, and more time telling the stories of real workers he met at factories.
In the past few days, they staged events in more working-class settings like the campaign stops he made Monday.
The campaign carefully choreographed the stops, featuring images of Mr. Romney surrounded by heavy equipment and talking about galvanizing steel.
''This piece equipment behind you, you know what that does?'' Mr. Romney asked, pointing to a big blue machine. ''That shreds cars. In 12 seconds, you put a car in at one end, out the other end comes little pieces of metal and rubber and glass and whatever.''
Speaking at a rally here in Zanesville - a town in central Ohio with a median family income of $31,932 - Mr. Romney said the 2012 election revolved around ''whether the stresses on families are going to be alleviated, where you've got a mom working the day shift and a dad working a night shift and the kids not sure who's home when.''
Mr. Romney, whose net worth is estimated at more than $200 million, has consistently won high-income voters in primary states, according to exit polls.
Working-class voters have been less loyal to any one candidate, with Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum - and at times Newt Gingrich, who is not competing strongly here - often fracturing their allegiance.
In that sense, they have emerged as a potential decisive swing vote, particularly in Ohio, where voters earning $30,000 to $100,000 a year constitute 67 percent of the Republican primary electorate, making them an essential group for each candidate.
They will be no less important in the general election, and Mr. Santorum has argued that his ability to connect in these manufacturing regions would make him a stronger opponent against Mr. Obama.
Mr. Romney's aides have made clear that they are thinking about how to compete for the Rust Belt constituency against Mr. Obama, who had similar struggles with working-class Democrats during the 2008 primaries and caucuses but overcame them in the general election. He defeated Senator John McCain in Ohio, for instance.
But the many ups and downs of the nominating contest have kept Mr. Romney's aides from focusing heavily on a potential general election, and on Monday their concerns were far more parochial. With polls showing a very tight race here, they were on tenterhooks, believing that they had enough momentum to beat back Mr. Santorum in Ohio's popular vote but hardly certain.
Mr. Romney's struggles to connect with individual rank-and-file voters have become clearer as the Republican primary season has continued, and his challenges were apparent in interviews on Monday.
''I've heard some people say that Mitt doesn't know how to pump his own gas,'' said Scott Williams, a dentist, who saw Mr. Romney speak in Zanesville. But, he added, ''I find that offensive. Who of us wouldn't want to be rich? But he didn't just inherit all his money. He knows how to work.''
Patrick Sullivan went to the Santorum event at Dayton Christian School, a converted NCR Corporation training center that had been shuttered. He pointed to Mr. Romney's background as a rich businessman as a reason he was supporting Mr. Santorum.
''Obama will absolutely label him the 1 percent, especially when they get into what he did at Bain,'' said Mr. Sullivan.
Bain is the leveraged-buyout firm that Mr. Romney led and that his opponents, even on the Republican side, have portrayed as preying on struggling companies (portrayals that Mr. Romney has called unfair).
But in a sign that Republican voters may be moving reluctantly toward accepting Mr. Romney as the nominee, Mr. Sullivan said he would support him, if only out of antipathy for Mr. Obama.
''Look,'' he said, ''I'd vote for a dead dog instead of Obama.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



254 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Obama Scolds G.O.P. Critics Of Iran Policy

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Tuesday forcefully rebuked Republicans on the presidential campaign trail and in Congress for ''beating the drums of war'' in criticizing his efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis over Iran's nuclear program, underscoring how squarely the national security issue had entered the election-year debate.
Mr. Obama's comments, in which he suggested without naming Iraq that the United States had only recently gone to war ''wrapped up in politics,'' came in a televised news conference. The White House scheduled it on a day when leading Republicans were addressing an influential pro-Israel lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, known as Aipac, at its annual conference.
There, the two leading Republican presidential candidates, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney, assailed Mr. Obama's foreign policy as ineffective and weak in their appeals to the group. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, called for Congress to authorize the use of force against Iran. 
The president was withering in his retort. ''Those folks don't have a lot of responsibilities,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They're not commander in chief. When I see the casualness with which some of these folks talk about war, I'm reminded of the costs involved in war'' -- for those who go into combat, for national security and for the economy. ''This is not a game,'' he added. ''And there's nothing casual about it.''
''If some of these folks think that it's time to launch a war, they should say so, and they should explain to the American people exactly why they would do that and what the consequences would be,'' he said.
While the debate over Iran is unlikely to overshadow the economy as the predominant election issue, the heated back-and-forth this week -- and the international tension over suspicions that Iran may seek to build nuclear weapons -- ensure that it is now a part of the presidential contest.
The spark was the Aipac meeting, where members of both parties sought to show their support for Israel, especially against the potential threat of a nuclear-armed Iran. Mr. Obama spoke on Sunday, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel addressed the conference on Monday night after meeting earlier with Mr. Obama at the White House. The president, in his speech to Aipac, said military force was one option on the table for dealing with Iran. At the White House, Mr. Netanyahu told Mr. Obama that he had not made a decision on an Israeli strike, officials said, though he expressed deep skepticism that the president's strategy of diplomatic and economic sanctions would force Iran to change course.
In his speech to Aipac, Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, accused Mr. Obama of allowing Iran ''another appeasement, another delay, another opportunity for them to go forward while we talk.'' When he addressed the group, Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, said, ''The only thing respected by thugs and tyrants is our resolve, backed by our power and our readiness to use it.''
For a president who inherited wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and has spent three years trying to wind them down, the talk of war plainly rankled. Mr. Obama's early opposition to the Bush administration's war against Iraq helped him to win the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008 over Hillary Rodham Clinton, who had voted to authorize force against Iraq as a senator, and he seemed to recall the period in drawing parallels to the current debate on Iran.
Citing the costs in lives lost or forever changed at his news conference, Mr. Obama said: ''Sometimes we bear that cost, but we think it through. We don't play politics with it. When we have in the past -- when we haven't thought it through and it gets wrapped up in politics -- we make mistakes. And typically it's not the folks who are popping off who pay the price.''
The politics aside, Mr. Obama struck a markedly more circumspect note on Iran a day after he expressed solidarity with Mr. Netanyahu. He reiterated at the news conference the need for time to allow diplomacy and sanctions to work, and rejected suggestions that Iran was so close to a nuclear weapon that the situation needed to be resolved ''in the next week or two weeks or month or two months.''
The president added that sanctions were starting to squeeze Iran's oil industry and central bank, and would intensify in coming months. He said that Iran was now signaling that it wanted to return to the negotiating table over its nuclear program, and he emphasized the risks of what he called premature military action.
''It's also not just an issue of consequences for Israel if action is taken prematurely,'' he said. ''There are consequences to the United States as well.'' As a friend of Israel, he said, it is the job of the United States ''to make sure that we provide honest and unvarnished advice.''
Finally, Mr. Obama made clear that when he said the United States ''has Israel's back'' -- a phrase he used in his speech on Sunday and in the Oval Office with Mr. Netanyahu -- it should not be interpreted to mean that he was giving Israel any kind of go-ahead for a pre-emptive strike on Iran.
His statement, Mr. Obama said, was a more general expression of American support for an ally, like Britain or Japan. ''It was not a military doctrine that we were laying out for any particular military action,'' he said.
Mr. Netanyahu and other Israeli officials attached great importance to Mr. Obama's statement, on Sunday and at the White House, that Israel had a sovereign right to defend itself.
It was one of four remarks the president made that Israeli officials said they thought had drawn the United States closer to Israel in recent days. The others were Mr. Obama's vow to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, his rejection of a policy aimed at containing a nuclear-armed Iran and his explicit reference to military force as an option on the table.
Mr. Netanyahu, in his address to Aipac on Monday, appeared comfortable with the results of his meeting with the president, even as he rejected warnings voiced by Mr. Obama and others that a strike on Iran could unleash even more dangerous consequences for Israel and the United States.
''It's about time we start talking about the cost of not stopping Iran,'' said Mr. Netanyahu, at one point holding up copies of letters from 1944, in which the War Department, the precursor of what is now the Defense Department, rebuffed an appeal by the World Jewish Congress to bomb Auschwitz because, the American officials said, it might drive Nazi Germany to even more ''vindictive action.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: During a news conference, President Obama on Tuesday defended his efforts to deal with Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



255 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Travel) SLICE OF BROOKLYN A Slice of Brooklyn Pizza Tour travels four days a week from one end of the borough to the other, with stops at Grimaldi's under the Brooklyn Bridge for a sample of a Neapolitan-style pie to L&B Spumoni Gardens in Bensonhurst, a famous Sicilian joint. This hourlong program follows the founder of these tours, Tony Muia, above; his cousin Paula Berkenstadt; and a few friends as they face competition from Manhattan. In the show's first half, Mr. Muia searches for a new tour guide while his friends go undercover on a rival tour. At 10:30, the friends eat their way across Brooklyn's ethnic neighborhoods, while the new guide exposes a secret that could bring the business to a halt.
8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL The Season 11 finalists perform in this episode, the 400th. The men are assigned to sing hits by Stevie Wonder; the women, Whitney Houston. Mary J. Blige sings and serves as a mentor. 
8 P.M. (NBC) WHITNEY Whitney (Whitney Cummings) finds a box of items that once belonged to an old girlfriend of Alex's and wants to know why Alex (Chris D'Elia) is still holding onto it. When she doesn't get the answer she wants, she turns to Mark (Dan O'Brien) and receives a little too much information. In ''Are You There, Chelsea?,'' at 8:30, Rick (Jake McDorman) persuades Jerry (Ryan Stiles) to make him a manager at the sports bar.
8 P.M. (FX) JENNIFER'S BODY (2009) With its gory set pieces and story ''as full of holes as some of its disemboweled victims,'' this film, ''a bloody high school demonic-possession, serial-killer comedy written by Diablo Cody, directed by Karyn Kusama and starring Megan Fox in the title role, is an unholy mess,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. He meant that as a compliment, he added. Ms. Fox's Jennifer is a dream girl, the kind other girls envy and all the boys want -- at least before she's transformed into a succubus by a run-in with an indie-rock band, and those same young men start dying in droves. Amanda Seyfried plays Jennifer's best friend and social antithesis, Anita, or Needy for short. ''Hell,'' she says, ''is a teenage girl.''
9 P.M. (Spike TV) I AM BRUCE LEE (2011) Kobe Bryant of the Los Angeles Lakers; the boxer Manny Pacquiao; the actors Mickey Rourke, Ed O'Neill and Gina Carano; Taboo of the Black Eyed Peas; and Jon Jones and Dana White of Ultimate Fighting Championship discuss the legacy of Bruce Lee, right, in the world of martial arts and entertainment.
10 P.M. (ABC) REVENGE FOR REAL This two-part series begins with ''A Murder in the Hamptons,'' a look at the death of the financier R. Theodore Ammon, who was found bludgeoned in the bedroom of his East Hampton, N.Y., mansion in October 2001. Suspicion fell on his wife, Generosa Rand, who had discovered a receipt from a divorce lawyer in Mr. Ammon's desk, leading the marriage to turn hostile. Her boyfriend, Daniel Pelosi, an electrician, was eventually convicted of the crime. In an interview with Cynthia McFadden, an imprisoned Mr. Pelosi gives his account of what happened that night.
10 P.M. (Discovery) DOOMSDAY BUNKERS Scott Bales, below, the owner of Deep Earth Bunker in Dallas, and his crew of engineers and craftsmen create shelters complete with nuclear, biological and chemical filters; huge water-storage tanks; security systems; gun vaults; and decontamination rooms for clients worried about cataclysms. But life underground is apparently not worth living without the luxurious kitchens and bathrooms that are de rigueur in the survival pods. This three-part series reveals some completed projects.
10 P.M. (Bravo) MILLION DOLLAR LISTING NEW YORK The network moves its real estate franchise to the East Coast, where the brokers Fredrik Eklund, Michael Lorber and Ryan Serhant try to close lucrative deals in a weak economy. A reunion of the Season 9 ''Top Chef'' competitors leads in at 9.
10 P.M. (TV Land) HOT IN CLEVELAND After Victoria (Wendie Malick) loses a poisonous spider that belongs to her ex-husband, the women take refuge in a lake house. Melanie (Valerie Bertinelli) discovers that a potential beau is the former fiance of Joy (Jane Leeves). In the Season 2 premiere of ''Happily Divorced,'' at 10:30, Fran (Fran Drescher) urges Peter (John Michael Higgins) to come out to the members of his family after learning that they don't know he's gay. This leads his brother to hit on her. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVEL CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); POP & ROCK (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%)

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); KOBE BRYANT (52%); MANNY PACQUIAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



256 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Republicans To Push Bill In an Effort To Add Jobs

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans will try this week to get back on the political message they want, job creation, and they are getting some help from President Obama and the Senate Democratic leadership, who share the need to appear cooperative on legislation to boost hiring.
But left in the cold by this outbreak of bipartisanship are House Democrats, who for months have been accusing the House leadership of dysfunction and a willful neglect of the jobs issue. 
On Wednesday, the House is to begin debate on six minor measures to help small businesses raise capital and take their companies public, all packaged together under the title the JOBS Act, for Jumpstart Our Business Startups. For the first time perhaps since they took control of the House, Republicans are claiming the high ground of bipartisanship and compromise, and they are making common cause with the other people who have control over official Washington: the president and the Senate Democrats.
On Tuesday, the White House released an official statement of administration policy urging House passage of the Republican bill, a rarity from a White House budget office that more often threatens to veto legislation pending before the House.
In that sense, a relatively modest bill is pointing up how the political interests of the people who have power are diverging from the interests of those seeking it, House Democrats and Senate Republicans.
''The country wants to see us get something done and work together,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said. ''When you have the White House saying supportive and good things about this measure, when you have the Senate Democratic leader urging passage, it seems to me we're going to get a healthy bipartisan vote.''
Mr. Cantor reached out personally last month to Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House minority whip, to ask him to appear at a press event last week announcing the legislation. Mr. Hoyer declined to give last Tuesday's announcement the gloss of bipartisanship Republican leaders had wanted, as did other Democrats who were invited.
Instead, Mr. Hoyer dismissed the bill as a collection of worn-out, minor retreads, many of which had already passed the House, and continued his verbal assault on the ''do-nothing'' Republican House.
''I call it 'Just Old Bills,' '' Mr. Hoyer said, sniffing about the JOBS Act.
That gambit was undermined, however, when both the White House and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, last week praised the House bill and promised to move forward. The Senate Banking Committee held a hearing Tuesday on the legislation to air some concerns, but Democratic leadership aides say a Senate bill similar to the House's is likely to be introduced early next week.
For Democrats in the House, such comity could spell political trouble. Republicans' swoon in the polls, and the apparent rise of Democrats as the party that a plurality of voters want to control Congress, came in large part from the view that Republicans have been obstructionist at best, and incompetent at worst, since taking control of the House last year. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released this week found that 46 percent of registered voters favored a Democratic-controlled Congress next year, with 41 percent wanting Republican control.
That narrative could be in jeopardy, now that Republican House leaders have determined that they have to stop the endless arguments and actually pass legislation.
''There's nothing wrong with having a debate about philosophy, but at the end of the day, we have to do something about jobs,'' Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican whip, said.
The jobs legislation, which is expected to pass with overwhelming, bipartisan support on Thursday, sounds narrow -- especially since a much more ambitious transportation and infrastructure bill remains mired in intraparty Republican squabbling. The JOBS Act centerpiece, drafted by two freshman representatives, Stephen Fincher, Republican of Tennessee, and John Carney, Democrat of Delaware, delays some Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and creates a category of ''emerging growth companies'' to lower the costs of initial public offerings for smaller firms. It passed the House Financial Services Committee 54 to 1.
''It's not the be-all and end-all. There are other things we can do. We could be passing a transportation bill, an infrastructure bill,'' Mr. Carney said. ''But I think this is an important piece.''
Another measure removes an S.E.C. prohibition on small companies using advertisements to solicit investors, a ban that dates to 1982. One measure lifts restrictions on ''crowd funding'' so entrepreneurs can raise capital from large pools of small investors.
Still another increases the number of shareholders permitted to invest in a community bank to 2,000 from 500. This was initially written by a Democrat, Representative Jim Himes of Connecticut. But authorship of the version coming to a vote is being given to a freshman Republican, Representative Ben Quayle of Arizona.
Mr. Himes called that ''naked politics,'' but he said he is not holding it against the Republicans.
''I'm certainly not going to say they're continuing to be overly partisan,'' Mr. Himes said in an interview. ''I'd just say it's important, but it's small beer.''
''The ability for banks to have 2,000 shareholders instead of 500 will be a good thing for small banks,'' he continued, ''but it's not going to give us a point of G.D.P. in the next year or so.''
Other Democrats are less forgiving. Democratic aides say Republicans boxed them out of major legislative efforts, like the continuing struggle to fashion a transportation bill, which really could have an impact on the economy. But now they want Democrats to serve as window dressing for a bill whose significance is being greatly exaggerated.
Senior House aides from both parties acknowledge that the Democratic anger on the JOBS Act stems largely from its title, not its content.
''Instead of trying to fake it once again this week with a 'JOBS' Act that simply repackages old bills -- four of the six already passed the House with major bipartisan support and one was one shamelessly bootlegged from Democratic Congressman Jim Himes -- Republicans need to join Democrats in actually working to put the country back to work,'' House Democratic leaders said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Kevin McCarthy, at lectern, announced the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act last week in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); STARTUPS (70%); BUDGETS (70%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



257 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: 'He Should Be All Right,' Massachusetts Voters Say of Their Ex-Governor

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Jess Bidgood contributed reporting from Duxbury and Middleborough, Mass., and Dalia Sussman from New York.

 BODY:
LEOMINSTER, Mass. -- These are the voters who know Mitt Romney best -- the ones who chose him as their governor a decade ago, embracing his promise to shake things up as a newcomer to elected office and positioning him for a future on the national stage.
Yet at several polling places around Massachusetts on Tuesday, even some of those who helped give Mr. Romney a victory here in the Republican presidential primary were hazy on his accomplishments as governor and lukewarm on his candidacy. Not a few expressed frustration, or outright anger, about his support for the state's 2006 landmark universal health care law, which has become a lightning rod. 
''He should be all right,'' Richard Allen, 64, said after casting his ballot for Mr. Romney in Leominster, a city of 40,000 in Worcester County, where most voters are independent like him but often support Republicans. ''I think he can't do any worse of a job than the guy we have in there right now.''
In truth, Mr. Romney has been ambivalent about Massachusetts, too. He chose not to seek a second term as governor, announcing that decision more than a year before he left office and spending much of that final year outside the state. And while Mr. Romney still has a home here, he has all but excluded Massachusetts from his campaign stops as he tries to shake off the moderate mantle that his primary opponents seek to brand him with.
Still, as expected, Mr. Romney sailed to victory in the Massachusetts primary, winning voters from all age groups and all education and income levels and far outpolling Newt Gingrich, Ron Paul and Rick Santorum.
Nearly 6 in 10 voters here said the economy was their top issue, and they overwhelmingly supported Mr. Romney. The top trait that voters were looking for was someone who could defeat President Obama, and more than 8 in 10 of them backed Mr. Romney, according to exit poll data. But Mr. Romney edged out Mr. Santorum even among those most looking for a true conservative candidate.
Groups that Mr. Romney has failed to attract in some contests, like very conservative voters, strong Tea Party supporters and evangelical Christians, make up a relatively small percentage of the Republican primary electorate in Massachusetts. But even if they had accounted for more voters, that would not have posed much of a problem for the state's former governor. He won majorities of all these groups.
Still, a number of voters sounded halfhearted about supporting Mr. Romney. In Duxbury, one of a handful of Massachusetts towns where Republicans outnumber Democrats, Jerome Hanus, a registered Republican who voted for him on Tuesday, summed up Mr. Romney as ''adequate, considering the opposition.''
And in Middleborough, a town of 21,000 where Senator Scott P. Brown, a Republican, won 70 percent of the vote in 2010, Rich Acker, an independent, said he was supporting Mr. Romney despite being opposed to the state's mandatory health care coverage.
''I'm not too keen on that,'' he said of the Massachusetts law, which Mr. Romney's Republican opponents have criticized, saying it served as the model for President Obama's health care overhaul. Mr. Romney has tried to draw distinctions between the state and federal laws, and he favors repealing the Obama plan. But the issue continues to haunt him, with many Republicans assailing health care mandates as an attack on freedom.
In general, Massachusetts voters did not appear to punish Mr. Romney for his role in the state's 2006 health insurance law. While about half of voters said it went too far, they still voted for Mr. Romney by a broad margin.
Christine Leger, an independent from Leominster who voted for Mr. Paul, said she blamed Mr. Romney for the national health care law.
''It started with him, and it's totally going in the wrong direction,'' she said. ''He tries to cover it up, but it is what it is; you can't sugarcoat it.''
Wayde Lodor, an independent from Leominster, voted for Mr. Romney but grumbled about the state's health care mandate. An independent consultant, Mr. Lodor said he refused to buy coverage for himself because it would cost as much each month as a mortgage payment; he pays state-imposed penalties instead.
But Mr. Lodor also said he admired Mr. Romney, especially for not taking a state salary while he was governor.
Some voters raised another much-repeated criticism of Mr. Romney: that he is a flip-flopper who held moderate positions as the governor of this Democratic-leaning state but became more conservative when he decided to run for president. But others said Mr. Romney's shift to the right had not bothered them.
''Every politician does it,'' said Karen Loomis, a registered Republican in Leominster who voted for Mr. Romney. ''He's got to come across as being more conservative to win nationally.''
Although most of about two dozen Massachusetts voters interviewed Tuesday struggled to cite specific things that Mr. Romney had accomplished as governor, many praised his business background, saying it made him the best choice for president.
''I just think he's a problem solver and well organized,'' said John Burke, an independent in Duxbury who voted for Mr. Romney. ''He can break down a problem into its components.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney after voting on Tuesday in Belmont, Mass. Voters in the state praised him for his business acumen, but they also criticized the health care legislation he approved as governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); RELIGION (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



258 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Takes Georgia, Keeping Campaign Alive With a Southern Strategy

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- With a decisive victory in Georgia, Newt Gingrich saved a campaign that seemed teetering on the precipice of disaster two weeks ago. Polling then suggested that he might achieve no better than a squeaker victory in his home state, an embarrassment that could have led him to withdraw.
But after a single-minded focus on barnstorming around Georgia leading up to the Super Tuesday contests, Mr. Gingrich is poised to gain a substantial share of the state's 76 delegates to the Republican convention. 
''In the morning, we are going on to Alabama,'' Mr. Gingrich told an enthusiastic crowd here on Tuesday night, some waving ''Newt-a-Mania'' signs. ''We're going on to Mississippi. We're going on to Kansas. And that's just this week.''
Alabama and Mississippi, which hold the next primaries on the calendar next Tuesday, both figure into Mr. Gingrich's grand strategy for reanimating his candidacy by carrying Super Tuesday momentum into other victories in the South. So does Kansas, which holds its caucuses on Saturday.
But Mr. Gingrich failed to gain a strong enough finish in Tennessee and Oklahoma to displace Rick Santorum as the leading alternative to Mitt Romney.
In Oklahoma, Mr. Santorum won a commanding victory, with Mr. Romney second and Mr. Gingrich third.
In Tennessee, where Mr. Gingrich seemed to have closed some of the gap with Mr. Santorum in recent days, he was on his way to a disappointing third-place finish, exit polling showed.
Mr. Gingrich lumped Mr. Santorum with all the other candidates who had surged earlier in the campaign only to drop out: Tim Pawlenty, Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry and Herman Cain.
''And now it's Santorum,'' Mr. Gingrich said on Tuesday night. ''There's lots of bunny rabbits that run through. I'm the tortoise.''
As Mr. Gingrich visits Alabama and Mississippi in the next two days, he will be shadowed by Mr. Santorum, who is turning his own sights to the Deep South.
Mr. Gingrich was feeling confident enough of his Georgia victory on Tuesday to risk another round of ''Newt Skywalker'' jokes by detouring to the U.S. Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Ala.
But once out of Georgia, he will not be able to count on the ''native son'' sentiment that fueled no small part of his win.
According to exit polls, more than a third of Georgia voters said Mr. Gingrich's ties to the state, which he represented in the House for two decades, were important in their choice of candidate. Four out of five voters said the rise in gas prices (up 6 percent in the state in the past month) was an important factor in their choice.
Mr. Gingrich has focused intensely on energy in the past few weeks, promising to lower the price of gasoline to $2.50 a gallon by aggressive drilling. Many energy economists said the claim was simplistic, and Mr. Romney called it ''pandering.''
Much of Mr. Gingrich's speech on Tuesday night was spent on a recitation of how ''Wall Street'' money, meaning Mr. Romney's wealthy supporters, had been dedicated to undermining his earlier surges with negative advertising.
''I hope the analysts in Washington and New York, who spent June and July explaining our campaign was dead, will watch this tonight and learn a little bit from this crowd and from this place,'' he said.
Merle Black, a political scientist at Emory University in Atlanta, said Mr. Gingrich had most likely also won support by attacking a favorite target, the ''elite'' news media, which he took to task for creating a controversy over Rush Limbaugh's verbal attacks against an advocate for contraception.
Mr. Gingrich repeated the criticism on Tuesday, calling the issue over Mr. Limbaugh ''the last desperate effort of the elite media to smother an uprising by diverting us into any possible fight.''
Mr. Black said Mr. Gingrich could win all 14 of Georgia's Congressional districts, giving him a vast majority of the state's delegates.
''It's certainly a surprise from what he looked like a couple of weeks ago,'' Mr. Black said.
But even if Mr. Gingrich went on to win the states in play next week, his path to the nomination remains improbable.
''He's got to win something outside the South,'' Mr. Black said. ''Where's he going to go? Where's he going to show strength?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newt Gingrich in Atlanta with his wife, Callista, as polls closed on Tuesday in Georgia's presidential primary. He won there but fell short in other important states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Gingrich
Paul
Romney
Santorum CHARTS: How Different Groups Voted in Georgia
 Tennessee 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (93%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); MICHELE BACHMANN (55%); TIM PAWLENTY (55%); HERMAN CAIN (55%); RICK PERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (89%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (57%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



259 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Miniature E-Books Let Journalists Stretch Legs

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
The Kindle Single is not a promising name. It sounds like a new kind of prefabricated fire log, or a type of person you might meet on the dating service eHarmony -- perhaps a lonely independent bookstore owner put out of business by Amazon.com.
Here's what Kindle Singles actually are: probably the best reason to buy an e-reader in the first place. They're works of long-form journalism that seek out that sweet spot between magazine articles and hardcover books. Amazon calls them ''compelling ideas expressed at their natural length.'' If I didn't loathe the word ''compelling,'' I'd think that wasn't a half-bad slogan.
I recently sat down and read 15 of these boutique minibooks. Most are blah; a few are so subliterate they made my temples ache. But several -- like John Hooper's reportage on the Costa Concordia disaster, Jane Hirshfield on haiku and Jonathan Mahler on Joe Paterno -- are so good they awaken you to the promise of what feels almost like a new genre: long enough for genuine complexity, short enough that you don't need journalistic starches and fillers. 
Amazon hardly has a monopoly on this novella-length form. Digital publishers like Byliner and the Atavist are commissioning articles of this length that can be purchased and read on any e-reader, or on laptops or phones. But Amazon cherry-picks the best and is commissioning its own articles and essays under the editorship of the journalist David Blum.
For writers, there's money to be made here. Amazon offers 70 percent of the royalties to its Singles authors. The all-time best-selling Single, a short story titled ''Second Son,'' by Lee Child, the British-born thriller writer, was originally published by Delacorte Press; it is priced at $1.99 and has sold more than 180,000 copies.
So far Amazon has issued more than 160 Singles, at a rate of 3 per week. It has fairly strict rules for the nonfiction it selects. No excerpts from books. Generally no expanded versions of articles that have appeared elsewhere. Barnes & Noble offers similar material in its Nook Snaps series, and Apple has Quick Reads on its iBookstore, but neither is offering original material.
The first Kindle Single that made noise was Jon Krakauer's ''Three Cups of Deceit: How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way'' ($2.99), published last April. Mr. Krakauer's 22,000-word article, commissioned by Byliner, was a well-reported takedown of Mr. Mortenson, the author of the best seller ''Three Cups of Tea.'' It read like the work of a modern-day pamphleteer or like someone lancing a pernicious boil.
Since then the doors have swung wide. There are worthwhile short books now by writers including Taylor Branch, William T. Vollmann, Stephen King, Mark Bittman, Ann Patchett, Walter Mosley, David Margolick, Sloane Crosley and Amy Tan. The Singles best-seller list has anointed new stars, like Mishka Shubaly, the glib but antic memoirist who writes about sex and stimulants and the bands he's played in.
For the purposes of this article, I'm sticking to Kindle Singles, the prime marketplace for this work. I'm also sticking to nonfiction. There are some good stories on the Amazon Singles list, but the length doesn't appear to put new possibilities into novelists' hands.
Three kinds of narratives that frequently seem bloated when they arrive between hard covers are biographies, accounts of disasters and illness memoirs. Some of the friskiest Singles fall into these categories.
We're destined to see many books about the Italian cruise liner Costa Concordia, which struck a rock off Tuscany on Jan. 13 and lurched onto its side. But John Hooper, a Rome-based correspondent for The Economist and The Guardian, is here with ''Fatal Voyage: The Wrecking of the Costa Concordia'' ($1.99), the first wide-angle account of these events.
For Italians, the canting liner ''seemed unbearably emblematic,'' he says, thanks to the debt crisis in the euro zone and years of sloppy rule by Silvio Berlusconi. Mr. Hooper's book is equal parts thriller and elegy.
A different kind of disaster played out last fall at Penn State University after the football coach Joe Paterno was fired in the wake of allegations that one of his assistant coaches had sexually abused children. These events, the Paterno legend, are neatly pinned in ''Death Comes to Happy Valley: Penn State and the Tragic Legacy of Joe Paterno'' ($1.99), by Jonathan Mahler, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine. It's an elegant book with a perfect ratio of reportage, biography and criticism. It gently pulls Joe Pa off the pedestal upon which he has long stood.
Andy Borowitz is the funniest human on Twitter, and that's not mean praise. His first original e-book -- the current best-selling Single -- is a seriocomic memoir called ''An Unexpected Twist'' (99 cents), about a blockage in his colon that nearly killed him. This funny book has a sneaky emotional gravity. As the time of his illness he'd been married only a few months, and his small book becomes a rather large love story.
Two other Singles I admired are Ann Patchett's ''Getaway Car: A Practical Memoir About Writing and Life'' ($2.99) and Jane Hirshfield's ''Heart of Haiku'' (99 cents), which functions both as a short biography of the 17th-century Japanese poet Basho and as a primer on haiku in general.
These Singles allow real writers a chance to stretch their legs. They're the literary equivalent of a week's sailing trip, not a Thor Heyerdahl slog across an ocean, with reader and writer lashed to the mast.
There's an unexpected moral bonus here too. I enjoyed shopping, a la carte, for these pieces and making micropayments (99 cents to $2.99) for them. Writers set their own prices, Amazon said.
Many of these minibooks have interesting premises but fail to deliver entirely. These include ''Blindsight,'' by Chris Colin, about the Hollywood producer of films like ''C.H.U.D. II'' who suffered serious brain trauma in a car accident and came back an oddly changed man. Mr. Colin is a fine writer, but this is an Oliver Sacks-type story that needed an Oliver Sacks.
Others ride blithely off the rails. Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard Law School professor, has written ''One Way Forward: The Outsider's Guide to Fixing the Republic'' ($1.99). It's about how money has ruined politics, and about how Tea Partiers and Occupy Wall Streeters should collaborate to fix this problem. Mr. Lessig is right, but he's insufferable. His book is earnest, patronizing and so dull that I flipped my Kindle over, searching for a snooze button.
Sara Davidson's memoir about Joan Didion, ''Joan: Forty Years of Life, Loss and Friendship With Joan Didion'' ($2.99), is warm but wan. It's dense with cliches (''breathtaking prose,'' ''bevy of A-list players'') and makes Ms. Didion seem less interesting, not more, despite details like Ms. Didion's rebuff of Warren Beatty's hands-on advances in the early 1970s.
The gatekeepers at the magazines I love -- from The New Yorker to the Oxford American, and from New York magazine to The Paris Review -- are not going to be made redundant by Singles anytime soon. A typical issue of any of these magazines remains the better, and more reliable, value.
But I'm bullish on this form.
This despite what might be the biggest bummer of the Kindle, at least on its least expensive versions: When it is left unattended, it displays advertisements on its screen. Among the many admirable things about books, they don't metamorphose into ads for Omaha Steaks when you aren't grasping them in your optimistic fingers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three of the Kindle Singles: from left, ''Death Comes to Happy Valley,'' about Joe Paterno and the Penn State scandal
''Fatal Voyage,'' about January's Italian cruise ship disaster
 and ''An Unexpected Twist,'' Andy Borowitz's semi-comic memoir. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); BESTSELLERS (77%); DATING SERVICES (77%); ROYALTIES (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); LITERATURE GENRES (75%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (71%)

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: JOE PATERNO (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



260 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Bill to Address China Subsidy

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The House voted on Tuesday to ensure that the United States could impose duties on subsidized goods from China and Vietnam, overwhelmingly rejecting a conservative group's attempt to portray it as a tax increase. 
The bill, which was passed 370 to 39 and addresses a court ruling, now goes to President Obama, who is expected to sign it into law. The Senate passed the bill on Monday.
''China distorts the free market by giving enormous subsidies to its producers and exporters, and our companies and workers should not be expected to compete against the deep pockets of the Chinese government,'' Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said during debate.
The Obama administration helped draw up the bipartisan bill after an appeals court ruled in December that the Commerce Department did not have authority to impose countervailing -- or antisubsidy -- duties on goods from ''nonmarket economies.''
The decision endangered countervailing duties on about two dozen goods from China and Vietnam worth more than $4 billion in trade, and potential new duties in cases involving solar panels and turbine towers from China.
Supporters say current duties protect 80,000 American jobs. They cover steel, aluminum, paper, chemicals, other products from China and plastic shopping bags from Vietnam.
The vote gave both Republicans and Democrats a chance to show they are being tough on China, which many Americans see as an unfair trader. Last year, United States imports from China totaled a record $399.3 billion.
Separately, the United States began action on Tuesday at the World Trade Organization to open India's market for poultry meat and eggs, saying an Indian ban on United States imports intended to stop the spread of bird flu was not based on sound science.
India's ban in the name of protecting local poultry producers from losses caused by avian influenza is ''clearly a case of disguising trade restrictions by invoking unjustified animal health concerns,'' Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said.
The poultry industry welcomed the move, which it said could pry open a market for poultry exports conservatively valued at more than $300 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POULTRY (89%); LITIGATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MEATS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (63%); INFLUENZA (62%); ANIMALS (62%); APPEALS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVE CAMP (58%); RON KIRK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



261 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Super Tuesday

 BODY:
Long before Super Tuesday, the Republican Party had cemented itself on the distant right of American politics, with a primary campaign that has been relentlessly nasty, divisive and vapid. Barbara Bush, the former first lady, was so repelled that on Tuesday she called it the worst she'd ever seen. We feel the same way.
This country has serious economic problems and profound national security challenges. But the Republican candidates are so deep in the trenches of cultural and religious warfare that they aren't offering any solutions. 
The results Tuesday night did not settle the race. Republican voters will have to go on for some time choosing between a candidate, Mitt Romney, who stands for nothing except country-club capitalism, and a candidate, Rick Santorum, so blinkered by his ideology that it's hard to imagine him considering any alternative ideas or listening to any dissenting voice.
There are differences. Mr. Santorum is usually more extreme in his statements than Mr. Romney, especially in his intolerance of gay and lesbian Americans and his belief that religion -- his religion -- should define policy and politics. Mr. Santorum's remark about wanting to vomit when he reread John F. Kennedy's remarkable speech in 1960 about the separation of church and state is one of the lowest points of modern-day electoral politics.
Mr. Romney has been slightly more temperate. But, in his desperation to prove himself to the ultraright, he has joined in the attacks on same-sex marriage, abortion and even birth control. He has never called Mr. Santorum on his more bigoted rants. Neither politician is offering hard-hit American workers anything beyond long discredited trickle-down economics, more tax cuts for the rich, a weakening of the social safety net and more of the deregulation that nearly crashed the system in 2008.
There is also no space between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum in the way they distort reality to attack Mr. Obama for everything he says, no matter how sensible, and oppose everything he wants, no matter how necessary. Rising gas prices? Blame the president's sound environmental policies. Never mind that oil prices are set on world markets and driven up by soaring demand in China and Middle East unrest.
They also have peddled the canard that the president is weak on foreign policy. Mr. Romney on Tuesday called President Obama ''America's most feckless president since Carter.'' Never mind that Mr. Obama ordered the successful raid to kill Osama bin Laden and has pummeled Taliban and Al Qaeda leaders, all without the Republicans' noxious dead-or-alive swagger. Now, for the sake of scoring political points, Mr. Romney, Mr. Santorum and Newt Gingrich, who is hanging on only thanks to one backer's millions, seem determined to push Israel toward a reckless attack on Iran.
Republican politicians have pursued their assault on Mr. Obama, the left and any American who disagrees with them for years now. There are finally signs that they may pay a price for the casual cruelty with which they attack whole segments of society. Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican of Alaska, said on Tuesday that the Republicans have left people thinking they are at war with women. Women are right to think that.
A new Pew Research poll shows that 3 in 10 voters say their opinion of the Republicans has worsened during the primaries. Among Democrats, 49 percent said watching the primaries have made them more likely to vote for Mr. Obama. That is up from 36 percent in December, which shows that Mr. Obama has risen as the Republicans have fallen.
But the president, who can be frustratingly inert at times, still has a long way to go.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); CHURCH & STATE (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); DEREGULATION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); AL-QAEDA (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



262 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Considering the Options on Iran

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama Presses Israel to Resist Strikes on Iran'' (front page, March 6):
It is about time for all concerned to realize that the option to strike Iran -- now or in the future -- to stop it from becoming nuclear-weapons-capable is well past its due date. 
Because of the widespread dispersal and deep burial of Iran's nuclear weapons infrastructure, a military strike would have very limited success, and Iran's response would be to unleash a hornet's nest in the region.
The prospect that Iran could soon become nuclear-weapons-capable is most unsettling, and others will no doubt follow. Tough diplomacy and economic sanctions are necessary, but their chances of sufficiently weakening the regime so that it will reverse course are iffy at best.
We are left with a very big problem without an obvious solution.
SIMON ROSENBLUM Toronto, March 6, 2012
The writer is the author of four books about nuclear weapons strategy.
To the Editor:
I believe that the fear of an Iranian nuclear attack on Israel is irrational. The leaders of Iran surely know that any such attack would provoke an automatic and devastating reprisal. In short, it would cost them their country.
Iran's leaders are malign, but nothing in their behavior suggests that they are suicidal. On the contrary, they seem intent on retaining and even expanding their power.
RICHARD FOSTER Whitefish Bay, Wis., March 6, 2012
To the Editor:
Hooman Majd (''Starving Iran Won't Free It,'' Op-Ed, March 3) asserts that increasingly tough Western sanctions will not produce ''political change'' in Iran, but that change needs to develop from within the country, if ''too slowly for an American election cycle.''
The issue is not the ''American election cycle,'' but rather the Iranian nuclear fuel cycle.
Strikingly, Mr. Majd does not mention what is driving Western policy makers -- Iran's blatant disregard of Security Council resolutions and International Atomic Energy Agency strictures, and several good-faith attempts to work out an agreement with Iranian leaders.
President Obama has rightly reaffirmed American policy to prevent a belligerent Iranian regime from getting a nuclear bomb.
Iranian brinkmanship, a dangerous new nuclear arms race and the sharing of weapons with terrorist groups are real concerns.
Mr. Majd does not address these key issues, instead counseling patience and a hands-off policy as the best ways of dealing with Tehran generally. Both approaches, however, have been tried repeatedly without success.
That is why the United States and many other like-minded nations have no choice but to get tough. Otherwise, we face the game-changing prospect of an Iran capable of building a nuclear bomb.
DAVID HARRIS Executive Director American Jewish Committee New York, March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ARMS RACE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (68%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



263 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Romney and Santorum Fight It Out in Ohio With Much at Stake

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Dalia Sussman contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
STEUBENVILLE, Ohio -- Once again Ohio lived up to its reputation as a state of deeply divided political passions.
Just a week ago, Rick Santorum had a comfortable lead in the polls here, but a victory by Mitt Romney in Michigan seemed to give him the momentum that turned Ohio into a neck-and-neck race heading into Super Tuesday's primary.
Throughout Tuesday night, the two candidates battled for primacy in the state, separated by only a few thousand votes in the most contested battle of the evening, and by midnight Mr. Romney was the apparent victor.
A victory here carried bragging rights suggesting that whoever won here could also prevail in a general election in what has long been considered the ultimate swing state. 
Speaking to supporters at a high school gymnasium here, Mr. Santorum assured his supporters that he would carry on regardless of the outcome.
''When they say, 'Oh, he's finally finished,' we keep coming back,'' Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, declared. ''We're in this thing.'' He planned campaign stops Wednesday in Kansas and Mississippi.
Mr. Romney, in comments to supporters in Boston, acknowledged that the nominating campaign would be drawn out. ''And so it will go, day by day, step by step, door to door, heart to heart,'' he said.
Trailing Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney were Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
As the race came down to the wire, Santorum aides and supporters who were still lingering in the gymnasium said that regardless of the outcome, Mr. Santorum had effectively won just by coming so close and by forcing Mr. Romney to spend so much money here.
''He's already won by surviving,'' Mike DeWine, the state's attorney general, who switched to the Santorum camp from the Romney camp, told reporters.
Still, Mr. DeWine acknowledged that over the weekend ''the momentum did not feel good,'' because of what he said was a huge amount of negative information about Mr. Santorum being pushed by the Romney campaign, in automatic phone calls and television ads.
Mr. DeWine said that some people had told him, ''I want to vote for Rick, but we need to get this race over, so I'm just going to have to kind of hold my nose and vote for Romney.''
A majority of voters in Ohio said the economy was the top issue for them, according to exit polling, far outpacing the federal budget deficit, abortion or illegal immigration. Voters citing the economy were more apt to support Mr. Romney. Mr. Santorum won a broad majority of those who cited abortion as their top issue.
In part, the battle in Ohio was waged over blue-collar voters, broadly defined as those earning $30,000 to $100,000 a year, who account for a majority of the state's Republican primary electorate.
Preliminary exit polls in Ohio showed that voters in households earning $30,000 to $100,000 a year leaned toward Mr. Santorum. His economic plan, which promised to strengthen manufacturing, was a direct appeal to this group. Voters below $30,000 are divided between Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney. And Mr. Santorum almost never failed to mention his roots in a small steel town in western Pennsylvania -- just over the state line from this old coal-mining region in eastern Ohio, where he held his election night rally.
But Mr. Romney made a serious play for these voters, holding events at factories while emphasizing his economic plan and how he intended to stimulate growth.
His task was more difficult than Mr. Santorum's. His image as a man of wealth unable to relate to blue-collar workers made Ohio another test of whether Mr. Romney could expand his support significantly beyond voters who are affluent, moderate and hold college degrees.
Mr. Santorum's challenge was slightly different. He did not have to expand that base, per se, because many blue-collar voters in Ohio were already part of his natural constituency, made up of anti-abortion activists, evangelicals, some Tea Party supporters and people who called themselves very conservative.
Stephanie McGee, 23, a nurse who voted at the Holy Family Church here in Steubenville, said that she favored Mr. Santorum because ''he believes in traditional family values and is not afraid to stand up for them.''
The task for Mr. Santorum in Ohio was to hold on to these supporters and keep them enthused after his narrow loss in Michigan, Mr. Romney's native state. Polling showed that just before the Michigan vote last week, Mr. Santorum was leading in Ohio, having benefited from his unexpected victories in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri.
But Mr. Santorum's lead in Ohio started to dissipate after his loss in Michigan.
''Michigan was the turning point for Ohio,'' said Peter Brown, a pollster with the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute.
John Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron, agreed. ''The most important thing is that Romney won Michigan,'' he said, because it gave an enormous lift to his campaign.
''The news of Romney's win in Michigan was followed very quickly by a ramped-up campaign in Ohio,'' Mr. Green said.
Michigan polls had also showed an interesting turn of events in Mr. Romney's favor with Catholics, an important subset of voters. In Michigan, they favored Mr. Romney, who is Mormon, over Mr. Santorum, who is Catholic, by seven percentage points. Exit polls in Ohio showed that Catholics here favored Mr. Romney as well.
Mr. Santorum's campaign failed to file a full slate of delegates. The filing deadlines were months ago, before Mr. Santorum was taken seriously, but the Romney campaign was able to make an issue of it in the final days here.
Mr. Santorum complained on Monday that Mr. Romney and his ''super PAC'' outspent him 12 to 1; the Kantar Media Campaign Media Analysis Group has estimated that at least in television commercials, Mr. Romney's advantage was more like 3 to 1.
One particularly effective commercial that saturated the local airwaves showed Mr. Santorum struggling to explain his position on birth control. Another strong ad, which stood out because it was positive, showed Mr. Romney's former business partner crediting Mr. Romney with helping to save his daughter's life.
That appealed to Myles Henry, 67, who is retired from a low-level management position at a steel mill and voted for Mr. Romney.
''He's a decent guy,'' said Mr. Henry, standing in the cold outside the Holy Family Church in a Pittsburgh Steelers T-shirt.
''I just didn't like Santorum,'' he added. ''He's too much on the religious side. There's nothing wrong with religion. I just don't want to hear it all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Rick Santorum gathered at a high school gymnasium in Steubenville, Ohio.
Gingrich
Paul
Romney
 Santorum (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: How Different Groups Voted in Ohio: Based on interviews with voters by Edison Research. As of 12:08 a.m. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); ABORTION (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RON PAUL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



264 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Israel Delegates Have Washington's Ear on Iran

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee was surrounded by a gaggle of constituents on Tuesday like a quarterback in a huddle, finishing a discourse on his commitment to stopping Iran from developing nuclear weapons.
Andrew Groveman, a real estate developer from Memphis, was leading the group of delegates from an Israel lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, through meetings on Capitol Hill. ''As you know,'' Mr. Groveman said, ''we always have three points.''
''I thought this year the three were Iran, Iran, Iran,'' said Mr. Corker, a Republican who sits on the banking committee that recently passed legislation tightening the noose of sanctions against Iran. 
For three days, Iran has dominated the agenda of the annual conclave of Aipac, a must-have ticket for politicians eager to prove their pro-Israel bona fides.
In separate speeches to the record crowd of 13,000 people, President Obama, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and other leaders barely mentioned the words ''Palestinian conflict,'' and many in the audience said they had been moved to attend the conference because of what they see as the urgency of the Iran issue. If Iran developed nuclear weapons, many Aipac delegates agreed, it would pose an existential threat to the Jewish state.
''It's a dangerous country,'' was how 15-year-old Jonathan Turek of New Rochelle, N.Y., one of about 1,500 students at the conference, summed it up. ''Dangerous man running the country.''
After two days of listening to politicians talk about the issue, Aipac members got a chance to talk back on Tuesday. Conference leaders scheduled a record 530 meetings with lawmakers over about four hours, with delegates from all 50 states fanning out across Washington bearing talking points.
(Which Congressional offices did not take meetings? Those of Representative Ron Paul, the Texas Republican campaigning for the presidential nomination; Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat who has frequently voted against Aipac's positions on Israel and Iran; Representative Donald M. Payne of New Jersey, who died Monday; the office vacated by Representative Gabrielle Giffords, the Arizona Democrat recovering from an assassination attempt; and a lawmaker Aipac officials would not name.)
In what might have been the largest blitz of citizen lobbying all year, lines of delegates at checkpoints at Congressional office buildings snaked outside, and about a third of the 100-member Tennessee group did not make it into the first session until a few minutes before Mr. Corker left.
This year, for the first time, a counterlobby was set up by Occupy Aipac, a group that also protested outside the conference and made several attempts to disrupt its sessions. Medea Benjamin, a co-founder of the peace group Codepink and an Occupy leader, said about 200 people divided into nine teams and met with Congressional staff members on Friday, Monday and Tuesday, bringing their own talking points.
''It is important for our congresspeople to hear from both sides,'' said Ms. Benjamin, ''and hear from Americans horrified about the possibility of a war with Iran.''
The Aipac crowd, though, wanted to make sure that members were taking the possibility seriously. After their session with Mr. Corker and his national security adviser, the Tennessee group met with Erin Reif, an aide to Senator Lamar Alexander, another Tennessee Republican. The aide said that she thought the new sanctions bill might pass as soon as this month -- which some said is not soon enough.
''We want sanctions to work, but we wanted them to work a year ago,'' one woman in the group told Ms. Reif. Invoking the speech to Aipac on Monday in which Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, promised to introduce a bill authorizing military force at the smallest hint of Iran moving to weaponize its uranium, the woman said Mr. Alexander should consider ''not just an option, but every viable option.''
Then there were those other two points: Aipac members urged lawmakers to co-sponsor legislation to improve the security partnership between the United States and Israel, and to support the foreign-aid appropriation, which includes $3.1 billion for Israel.
Isaac Graber, a 15-year-old sophomore at Margolin Hebrew Academy in Memphis, presented the case for foreign aid, first to Ms. Reif and then again to Mr. Alexander, who arrived late. Isaac held a yellow legal pad but hardly referred to it, as he ticked off facts: foreign aid is about 1 percent of the federal budget; much of Israel's $3.1 billion is spent on contracts with United States companies; Israel spends 8 percent of its gross domestic product on defense. ''They're such a tiny country surrounded by all these crazy neighbors,'' Isaac said. ''Really, the bottom line is this is a little bit of money that really goes a far way.''
Then he asked Ms. Reif if she had any questions.
''Do you want my job?'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, center, met on Tuesday with Senators Harry Reid, left, and Mitch McConnell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); LOBBYING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); ASSASSINATION (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%)

PERSON: BOB CORKER (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (76%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (56%); DENNIS KUCINICH (56%); DONALD M PAYNE (56%); RON PAUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



265 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: British Families Feel Austerity's Bite

BYLINE: BETH GARDINER


HIGHLIGHT: As an American, Beth Gardiner was amazed that she could take her daughter to a half-dozen government-supported centers near her London home to play, meet other families and get advice on anything from healthy eating to childcare. Now, Beth reports for the new Female Factor Special Report, those centers are in danger, and with them a whole set of British values. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Here in Britain, government budget cuts are in the news constantly, and you can feel the changes in day-to-day life. In my north London neighborhood, a much-loved play center my daughter often visited was shuttered a few months ago, and the Sure Start Children's Centers that provide a host of services are being cut and consolidated. 
As an American, I was amazed by these centers when I became a mother four and a half years ago. Within a short walk of our home were a half dozen places I could bring Anna, usually for about 50 pence, to play, meet other families and, if we needed it, get advice on anything from healthy eating to child care. 
What a contrast to the U.S., where nothing comes for free, and many parents feel alone and unsupported. These centers seemed like a statement of a different set of values, a demonstration of how a society can really reach out and care for families. Now, as I detail in my Female Factor article, they are on the chopping block as austerity takes hold.
It's been apparent for quite a while now that families, and particularly women, are bearing more than their fair share of the cuts. The latest indication was this report showing female unemployment at a 23-year high. And that's with hundreds of thousands of public sector layoffs still to come.
Up north, families have been fighting Manchester's proposal to slash services at its Sure Start centers, part of an effort to cut 22 million from its early childhood budget. Officials withdrew the plan last month, but they still intend to gradually end the centers' provision of day care. A spokesman at 4Children, a London-based advocacy group, told me about a group of Manchester mothers campaigning to save the Sure Starts, and put me in touch with Alison Jones, one of the group's leaders.
I called Alison, and soon the text messages were pouring in, as she sent me the names and numbers of parents who wanted to talk about how important the centers were to them. It seemed like a visit to Manchester was in order. On a recent Saturday morning, Jennifer Bradshaw welcomed me into her home, and I focused my Female Factor piece on her family, and their fears about losing the local day care they rely on.
I met other moms too.
Helen Weaver, a full-time psychiatric nurse, told me how important the day care at her local Sure Start center had been as her partner underwent treatment last year for lymphoma. When she had to rush to the hospital to be with Darren, the staff there would take their young son on minutes' notice, along with an older daughter who was not even enrolled there. Now Darren is well, and back at work, and Helen is studying to become a psychotherapist. If they have to find a new day care when their Sure Start closes, they expect costs to go up by about a third, and they say one of them may have to find a second job to pay the bills.
At a jumble sale held to raise money for a local mother with brain cancer, I spoke to Rachel Binnie, who told me she was struggling to decide whether to enroll her son at a Sure Start day care that she's been told could close any time, on two months' notice, or start him in a school-based center where costs have gone up and the hours are shorter. Families around the country are facing dilemmas just like this. And as the cuts keep coming - more are scheduled to kick in when the government's new budget year starts next month - it will only get tougher. 

        
Apocalyptic Vision of London Rankles the Locals
        
In London, Fashion Is Fun, Funky and Fabulous

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); NUTRITION (74%); LAYOFFS (70%); NURSES & NURSING (63%); CANCER (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%); LYMPHOMA (50%) austerity; Families; London; Manchester; U.K.; women and children; Jones, Alison; Weaver, Helen; Budgets and Budgeting; Children and Childhood; Families and Family Life; London (England); Manchester (England); The Female Factor

PERSON: Jones, Alison; Weaver, Helen

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (90%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) London (England); Manchester (England)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



266 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2438 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
A Mirror Can Be a Dangerous Tool for Some C.E.O.'s | We've recently seen some illustrations in the takeover world of the dark side of the chief executive, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Being powerful and visionary, or at least thinking you are, can lead corporate chieftains to great heights, but also to extreme narcissism. And the victims are often shareholders.
The trait is on display in the pending $2.7 billion buyout of the insurer Delphi Financial by Tokio Marine Holdings of Japan. The chief executive of Delphi Financial, Robert Rosenkranz, controls a 49.9 percent voting interest in the company. Despite restrictions in Delphi Financial's charter, Mr. Rosenkranz demanded in negotiations that he be paid over $110 million more than other shareholders, a number that a special committee of Delphi Financial's board negotiated down by about $50 million.
Mr. Rosenkranz has also reportedly tried twice to negotiate side deals with Tokio Marine that would deliver him an additional payout of up to $57 million. When the board committee discovered this, it forced Mr. Rosenkranz and Tokio Marine to repudiate the deals.
All the parties have been sued by shareholders as a result of Mr. Rosenkranz's conduct.
In an opinion released on Tuesday, Vice Chancellor Sam Glasscock III, the judge hearing the litigation, permitted the deal to go forward but stated that the plaintiffs had a reasonable chance of proving in the litigation that while Mr. Rosenkranz felt "morally" entitled to his premium, he was not so permitted under Delaware law.
Deal Professor 
DEAL NOTES
The Wall St. Link to a Prostitution Case | New York prosecutors say Anna Gristina, who has been accused of orchestrating a multimillion-dollar brothel that catered to New York's wealthy elite, was arrested last month with an unnamed employee of Morgan Stanley.
DealBook 
Aronson's Latest Investment Is Far From Distressed | Jeffrey H. Aronson, the Centerbridge Partners co-founder who has a penchant for investing in troubled assets, is paying $13.075 million for a ninth-floor co-op at 101 Central Park West, The New York Observer reports, noting that the residence's asking price was $11.5 million when it briefly was on the market in 2009.
NEW YORK OBSERVER
Tackling the Ethics of Finance | "The financial services industry is really all about stewardship - responsibly managing what others entrust to your care," John G. Taft, who heads United States wealth management at the Royal Bank of Canada, told Marketplace's Heidi N. Moore.
MARKETPLACE
The Corzine Family's Letter to Vanity Fair | In a February article entitled "Jon Corzine's Riskiest Business," Vanity Fair reporters said that the former governor of New Jersey saw MF Global as a stepping-stone to becoming treasury secretary. In a letter to the magazine, Mr. Corzine's children protested "the sweeping negative narrative the authors use to describe our family."
Vanity Fair
Bill Clinton to Make Wall Street Push for Obama | Can Bill Clinton reignite the flame on Wall Street for President Obama? The former president has agreed to join Mr. Obama at a series of campaign fund-raisers, including one in New York that will be attended by donors in finance, Jeffrey McCracken and Hans Nichols of Bloomberg News report.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Despite Sluggish Activity, Deal Makers Optimistic | Nearly half of the more than 100 bankers and lawyers surveyed by the Brunswick Group, a public relations firm, believe merger activity will rise both worldwide and in North America this year.
DealBook 
HSBC Agrees to Sell Insurance Units for $914 Million | The bank said on Wednesday that it was selling its general insurance businesses in Asia and Latin America as part of its plan to focus on more profitable and faster-growing businesses.
DealBook 
El Paso's Lawyers Said to Have Opposed Goldman | El Paso's legal counsel, the law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, urged the company not to hire Goldman Sachs, citing the firm's stake in Kinder Morgan, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
El Paso Corp. Chief Defends His Actions in Kinder Morgan Deal | In a letter to employees, Douglas L. Foshee said he acted properly in negotiating the sale of the El Paso Corporation to Kinder Morgan, despite criticism from a Delaware judge.
DealBook 
Weighing Roche's Alternatives to an Illumina Deal | While Roche's chairman claims that the Swiss drug maker has other options if its Illumina takeover bid fails, it is not clear that the alternatives will prove as attractive.
DealBook 
U.P.S. and TNT Express Talks Stall | The negotiations for United Parcel Service to take over TNT Express are not likely to conclude this week, as the two sides disagree over issues including the location of the combined company's headquarters, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tanjong Energy Acquired by Malaysia State Firm | 1Malaysia Development, an investment company owned by the Malaysian government, is paying $2.81 billion for Tanjong Energy Holdings, The Wall Street Journal reports. 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Australian Bank Expected to Sell British Lender | The National Australia Bank, which is reviewing its British business, is expected to put its bank in that country up for sale, Reuters reports, citing unnamed people.
REUTERS
Indonesia to Limit Foreign Mining Investment | A new rule in the country requires foreign firms to reduce their stakes in mines by the 10th year of production, to bring domestic ownership to at least 51 percent, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman Keeps M.&.A. Crown | Advisory fees from mergers and acquisitions grew 13 percent last year to $20.3 billion, as Goldman Sachs led rivals with $1.84 billion in fees, according to Bloomberg Markets Magazine.
BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Banking Group Thinks Hard About Benchmark Rate | Amid an investigation into possible manipulation of the Libor borrowing rate, the British Bankers' Association, which oversees the rate, removed references to it from its Web site and met with regulators and bank executives to discuss the rate's future, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Perella Weinberg and Greenhill Add Senior Executives | Perella Weinberg says it has named a former Lazard president, Charles G. Ward III, as a partner, while Greenhill says it has hired Vikram Gandhi to help source deals in Asia.
DealBook 
Strategy Chief Leaves Oppenheimer | Brian Belski, who joined Oppenheimer & Company from Bank of America in 2009, has left his role as chief investment strategist, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
In Indonesia, Citi Manager Sentenced to Prison | Inong Malinda Dee, a former relationship manager with Citigroup in Indonesia, was convicted on Wednesday of money laundering, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Barclays and JPMorgan Gain Ground in Commodities | The two banks surpassed Morgan Stanley and tied with Goldman Sachs in their share of clients for energy derivatives trades, according to a Greenwich Associates survey, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Fears Mount at Energy Future Holdings | Investors fear that the Texas energy giant, which was the target of the biggest leveraged buyout in history, will see revenue drop in 2014 when hedges intended to protect against changes in natural gas prices expire, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Private Equity's 'Real Estate Agent' for Energy | Chesapeake Energy's deal with K.K.R. suggests that the company has begun to act as a "real estate agent," scouting for investments and collecting fees, The Street writes.
THE STREET
Tiger Global Scores $1.5 Billion Fund | The private equity affiliate of the hedge fund Tiger Global has raised nearly $1.5 billion for its latest fund, according to a regulatory filing, Fortune reports.
FORTUNE
Kenneth Cole Directors Hire Adviser | The board of Kenneth Cole Productions hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch to evaluate the buyout offer from Kenneth Cole, the company's founder, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
Buyout Firms Like Retailers | Pacific Brands and Billabong aren't the only Australian retailers to have attracted the attention of private equity. Harvey Norman and the Specialty Fashion Group are also potential targets, according to Citigroup, The Wall Street Journal reports. 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Behind the Texas Pension's Deal With Bridgewater | With the Teacher Retirement System of Texas buying a stake in Bridgewater Associates, DealBook dug deeper into the pension's novel investment in the world's largest hedge fund.
DealBook 
Paulson's Post-Traumatic February | One of Paulson & Company's main funds lost 1.5 percent in February. As these things go, that's not a horrible month. But given the history of this particular fund, which lost more than 50 percent in 2011, it could be a scary reminder of the not-too-distant dark days.
DealBook 
Sprint Said to Part Ways With LightSquared | Sprint Nextel is planning to end a network-sharing agreement with LightSquared as soon as next week, a move that would stoke even more concern about the viability of Philip A. Falcone's wireless company, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the plan.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fortress Struggles Through February | The Fortress Investment Group saw its commodities fund decline 5 percent last month, while its macro fund had an 0.8 percent gain, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Hedge Fund Sees Double-Digit Returns | AM Capital Management, a Chicago-based hedge fund firm, was up 12.78 percent in February after seeing a 21.19 percent gain in January, reports the trade publication Opalesque.
OPALESQUE
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Bill Would Relax I.P.O. Rules | Regulators said proposed legislation that is intended to make I.P.O.'s easier for some businesses, by easing auditing and analyst rules, could expose investors to more risk, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O. Market Looks Familiar | Last year, I.P.O. activity surged in the first half, only to cool down substantially by the year's end. In 2012, the pattern so far is similar, Bloomberg Markets magazine writes.
BLOOMBERG MARKETS
Facebook Dealt Privacy Setback in Germany | A German court ruled that Facebook can't force its members to grant the company a comprehensive license to their personal data, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Indian Development I.P.O. Expected This Month | An Indian government official told CNBC-TV18 on Wednesday that the I.P.O. for the state-owned National Buildings Construction Company, which consults on civil building projects, could come on March 22, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Andreessen Horowitz Bets on Online Payments | The venture capital firm is investing $25.5 million in Jumio, which uses webcams and image-recognition technology to facilitate secure online purchases, in a deal that values the company at more than $100 million, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Twitter Announces Deal With American Express | Under a new partnership that represents Twitter's latest attempt to make money, American Express cardholders can use Twitter to get discounts, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Video Streaming Company Aims to Raise $50 Million | Roku, which makes devices that allow subscribers to watch Internet videos on their televisions, saw sales triple last year to $100 million after buying advertising, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Chat Start-Up Lands $2 Million | Branch, a chat platform that recently partnered with the Obvious Corporation, a company run by Twitter's original leadership, raised the funds from Lerer Ventures and SV Angel, BetaBeat reports.
BETABEAT
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Stanford Convicted of Fraud for Ponzi Scheme | A federal jury in Houston convicted R. Allen Stanford, a Texas financier, on 13 of 14 counts of fraud in connection with a worldwide Ponzi scheme that lasted more than two decades and involved more than $7 billion in investments.
DealBook 
Lehman Estate Emerges From Bankruptcy | More than three years after Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, setting off a financial tsunami, the failed firm's estate emerged from Chapter 11 protection on Tuesday, ready to begin paying out creditors.
DealBook 
Assessing Debt Relief in Greek Deal | The rescue package aims to reduce Greek's debt levels to 120.5 percent of the gross domestic product, but economists at the Royal Bank of Scotland said the ratio could end up closer to 160 percent.
DealBook 
Should Portugal Follow Greece? | Mitu Gulati, a law professor at Duke, who co-wrote a paper on Greece's debt crisis in 2010, has been making a radical argument: that other European nations should try to strike a Greek-style deal with creditors, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
More Firms Sign on to Greek Debt Restructuring | Societe Generale, UniCredit and Assicurazioni Generali, the Italian insurer, said they would participate in Greece's bond exchange, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Charges Filed Against Olympus and Executives | Japanese prosecutors charged Olympus's former chairman, former executive vice president, former auditor and others for their alleged involvement in the accounting scandal, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
U.S. Confirms Criminal Libor Investigation | The Justice Department said in a letter to a federal judge that the government is conducting a criminal investigation into potential manipulation of a benchmark borrowing rate, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ford Chief's Crisis Compensation | Alan R. Mulally, chief executive of Ford, received 2.9 million shares in the company for his work in 2009, Reuters reports. Worth $5.6 million at the time, that stake has climbed to $34.5 million.
REUTERS
Companies Pay More to Protect Management | A survey found that 400 public companies had capped their liability insurance policies for directors and officers at $87 million on average, up from $80 million in 2010, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Refinancing Fees Lowered for Certain F.H.A. Borrowers | The Obama administration said it would make refinancing a mortgage less expensive for borrowers whose loans are backed by the Federal Housing Administration and were originated on or before May 31, 2009, The New York Times Bucks blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PROSTITUTION (70%); ETHICS (70%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); JUDGES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ARRESTS (63%); GOVERNORS (55%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); TOKIO MARINE HOLDINGS INC (57%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (50%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (61%); RY (SWX) (61%); RY (NYSE) (61%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 8766 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



267 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Two Depressions

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Better this time, but not as much as you think. 

 BODY:
Barry Eichengreen and Kevin O'Rourke have a followup on their hugely influential article on quantitative comparisons of the Great Depression and the Great Recession. This time they point out that the slump wasn't nearly as bad this time, and recovery began much sooner -- but that the pace of recovery has clearly slowed.
I was curious, however, about Europe. One of their key points in the original article was that we understate the similarity of the two slumps when we focus on America, which had a very deep decline in post-1929 but a smaller decline this time. Elsewhere, the contrast was less marked. And in their update, a good part of the recovery reflects growth in emerging markets, not advanced nations.
So how does Europe look? I've been corresponding with Barry and Kevin, and while we haven't done the full comparison, they pointed me to some suggestive numbers. Feinstein, Temin, and Toniolo have data on interwar industrial production:
Meanwhile, Eurostat has this time around:
So we had a 28 percent decline in industrial production peak to trough in 1929+, versus around 18 this time. By year 5 of the original Depression, output had recovered to 86 percent of its previous peak; right now, production is 91 percent of previous peak, and falling as Europe slides back into recession.
So Europe is doing better this time, but not that much better -- it's sort of two-thirds of a Great Depression. 
Clearly, the answer is more austerity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



268 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Government, Responsibility and Happiness

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: At least one aspect of the libertarian vision put forth by Charles Murray in "Coming Apart" is based on a fallacy. 

 BODY:
Charles Murray's "Coming Apart" has attracted attention mainly for its rethinking of the nature of American inequality. Conservatives tend to be elated by Murray's cultural rather than economic understanding of inequality; liberals tend to be outraged at the suggestion that inequality is due to the moral faults of the working class. But Murray's sociology of inequality is only a preliminary to the real point of his book, which is an impassioned defense of a libertarianism that he sees at the root of the "American project" as envisaged by the founders of our republic. I propose to look at the argument - far more philosophical than sociological - that Murray advances for his libertarianism.
Despite all his graphs and data-analysis, Murray is explicit about the limits of his empirical, sociological evidence: "Many of our opinions about policy are grounded in premises about the nature of human life and human society that are beyond the reach of data . . . . So it has been with the evidence I have presented."

The evidence Murray presents concerns what he sees as a large and disturbing socioeconomic gap between Americans in the top 20 percent and the bottom 30 percent. The two groups can be specified by differences in income, education and power, but Murray's concern is differences in values. His central - and most striking - finding is that the top 20 percent strongly uphold "distinctively American" values of hard work, honesty, support for marriage and religious faith, whereas the lower 30 percent do not.

He goes on to assert that the decrease in industry, honesty, religion and marriage among the lower 30 percent has resulted in a serious loss of "social capital," defined as "neighborliness and civic engagement." Citing further data, Murray then claims that "people living in places with weak social capital generally lead less satisfying lives than people who live in places with high social capital - they are less happy." Therefore, people in the lower 30 percent are significantly less happy than people in the higher 20 percent.
I leave it to social scientists to scrutinize Murray's data. As a philosopher my interest is in the argument he goes on to develop for a libertarian approach to making the lower 30 percent happier. Here he goes beyond sociological data and argues from something much closer to a philosophical thesis about human nature and happiness. The thesis is that happiness requires responsibility: "All of these good things [elements of happiness like self-respect, intimacy and self-actualization] require freedom to act in all areas of life with responsibility for the consequences of actions . . . . Knowing that we have responsibility for the consequences of our actions is a major part of what makes life worth living." Call this the responsibility principle.
Murray invokes this principle to support his own version of libertarianism: that, except to prevent "starvation or death by exposure," a government should not interfere at all in the lives of any citizens, including the lower 30 percent. His argument is that any government intervention to improve the lot of the lower 30 percent decreases the responsibility of the people helped and thereby decreases their happiness. Childcare is a paradigm example: "If you're a low-income parent who finds it easier to let the apparatus of an advanced welfare state take over" the care of your children, then "the deep satisfactions that go with raising children" are "diminished accordingly."
Murray further argues that government intervention also "enfeebles the institutions [families and larger communities] through which people live satisfying lives." Such institutions "are strong and vital" because they have "the responsibility for doing important things that won't get done unless [they] do them." Once government withdraws and leaves the responsibility to families and communities, "an elaborate web of expectations, rewards and punishments evolves over time" and leads to norms of good behavior. Correspondingly, when government takes on the responsibility, "the web frays and eventually disintegrates."
But Murray's argument trades on a fallacy. His responsibility principle says, very plausibly, that responsibility for the goods we possess is an essential element in our happiness. No responsibility, no happiness. But his following argument assumes that any decrease in responsibility implies a decrease in happiness. That would be true if responsibility were the only factor contributing to our happiness. There are, however, many things that make us happy for which we are not responsible: a parent's love, good weather, a stranger's smile, a beautiful song, among many others. 
Even a good for which we might have been responsible but weren't - say, a fortune inherited rather than earned - may bring us great happiness. An earned fortune might have provided even more happiness, but there's no reason to think that a much smaller earned income would make us happier than a large inheritance would. Murray's principle says only that some amount of responsibility is needed for happiness, not, as his argument requires, that every decrease in responsibility means a net decrease in happiness. 
Murray's assumption is also undermined by the large amount of assistance the top 20 percent receive from the government. He claims that they are far happier than the lower 30 percent because government seldom intervenes to improve their lives: "the things the government does to take the trouble out of things seldom intersect with the life of a successful attorney or executive." This ignores, however, the many tax exemptions and government-financed projects like urban development, scientific research, museums and parks that make life much more pleasant for the upper 20 percent. This, of course, is in addition, to the enormous educational and financial benefits they receive from simply being children of their parents. Their situation makes it entirely clear that a very high level of happiness is consistent with receiving considerable benefits for which the individual is not responsible. 
Murray presents what he sees as a noble picture of "a man who is holding down a menial job and thereby supporting a wife and children" and so "doing something authentically important with his life," in which "he should take great satisfaction." No doubt he is. But why, in a society as wealthy as ours, couldn't he be freed-as most of the top 20 percent are - from serious threat of economic disaster and allowed to take responsibility for seeking higher levels of happiness for himself and his family? Murray's case for libertarianism is based on a misunderstanding of his own responsibility principle. 

        
The Usefulness of Anger: A Response
        
The Very Angry Tea Party
        
Stone Links
        
Philosophy by Another Name
        
Stone Links

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCIOLOGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); RELIGION (64%) Charles Murray; individual liberty; libertarians; Philosophy; Murray, Charles; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Libertarianism (US Politics); United States; The Stone

PERSON: Murray, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



269 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Porsche Boxster Strikes Nose-to-Tail Balance

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: A pert little lip on the rear lid, along with aggressive side intakes, give the roadster a better visual balance than previous models. 

 BODY:
GENEVA -- Particularly for the 911 and its ancestors, the uninterrupted slant-back look was a signature feature of Porsche sports cars since the company's first models appeared shortly after World War II.
The latest generation of the 911, however, was introduced wearing a subtle dual character line across the car's rear haunches. And on the 2013 Boxster, officially unveiled here, that tail treatment has blossomed into a bona fide design element.
At last, it seems, Porsche has found a proper nose-to-tail balance in Boxster styling, something that may have been lost between the handsome concept first shown in the early '90s and the initial production versions. 
By Porsche's internal nomenclature, the 2013 Boxster and Boxster S models shown here are type 981s. The first-generation Boxster, introduced in 1996, was the 986; the second-generation version of 2005 was the 987. The regressive numbering tactic -- the new 911, which followed the 997, is called the 991 -- has left some Porsche-philes slightly baffled.
None of this necessarily shakes the impression that the 981 bears a resemblance in photos to the last-generation Toyota MR2. In person, however, comparisons to downmarket facsimiles melt from memory. This car, especially in profile, with its pronounced side vents, sooner resembles Porsche's vaunted $450,000 Carrera GT. For roughly 1/10th of that sum, the new Boxster looks like a relative bargain.
The base Boxster's suggested retail price is $50,450, but the Boxster S would cost at least an extra $11,000. Those numbers, of course, can be padded by thousands, with the vast array of options Porsche is expected to offer when the cars come to the United States in June. 
The primary reason for the Boxster S's rather notable premium lies in its engine compartment, where the car gets the direct-injection 3.4-liter H-6 shared with far pricier base 911 models. This engine, detuned for Boxster duty, will produce 315 horsepower, an increase of five horsepower over the outgoing S, which will help propel the car to 60 miles an hour in a manufacturer-asserted 4.7 seconds with the PDK transmission.
The base model more than makes do with a 2.7-liter H-6 that produces 265 horsepower, an improvement of 10 over its predecessor. With the PDK gearbox, Porsche still expects a 5.6-second zero-to-60 time to be reasonable.
The new model is slightly larger, but also lighter, than the outgoing model. Although fuel economy may not be a make-or-break consideration for most Porsche customers, the Boxster nevertheless offers a welcome 15 percent improvement in fuel economy, the brand said.

        
Porsche Introduces a Brawnier Boxster for 2013
        
A Sleeker GTA Spano, but Is It Any More Real?
        
A Shape-Shifting Crossover From a Quiet Industry Giant
        
Audi Shows 2013 A3, a Redesign Nearly 10 Years in the Making
        
Lamborghini Aventador J: For $2.75 Million, a One-Off Aural Assault

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SPORTS CARS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%) Geneva Auto Show; Porsche 911 Carrera; Porsche Boxster; Automobiles; Geneva International Motor Show; Porsche AG; Geneva (Switzerland); Auto Shows; New Cars; sports cars

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Porsche AG

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Geneva (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



270 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Says New Oversight Agency Is Too Costly

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: In a letter to the Treasury Department, the financial industry urged that the start-up costs of the new Office of Financial Research be paid for by the Federal Reserve instead of the banks it oversees. 

 BODY:
 Wall Street banks are pushing regulators to defray the start-up costs of a new agency intended to prevent another financial crisis.
 In a letter sent to the Treasury Department, the financial industry is urging that the new agency, the Office of Financial Research, be financed by the Federal Reserve instead of the banks that it oversees until it is beyond its fledgling stage.
The new agency, which is not yet fully staffed, is scheduled to be financed by fees levied on banks starting in July, two years after it was created as part of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.
But in a letter sent Friday, industry groups including the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the American Bankers Association and the Financial Services Roundtable said that banks should not be burdened with the start-up costs.
"We believe that a corresponding adjustment should be made to the initial assessment basis to adjust for the delay," the groups said.
The letter echoes complaints from lawmakers and others who supported its creation that the Treasury Department has been too slow in setting it up. 
The Office of Financial Research is tasked with collecting and analyzing reams of bank data, in an effort to prevent a repeat of the liquidity problems during the 2008 financial crisis. The office, which supports the Financial Stability Oversight Council, didn't have a nominee for a director until President Obama named Richard Berner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary, in December.
The industry letter quickly drew criticism from Better Markets, a nonprofit group that promotes the public interest in financial markets. In a letter to the Treasury, the group portrayed the banks' proposal as a "request for a handout."
The source of financing for the new agency, Better Markets said, "only changes according to a calendar schedule and nothing else."
"It is hard to think of a reason why large financial firms should not pay the full cost" of setting up the new agency, the letter from Better Markets continued, "given the events that required its creation."

        
On Capitol Hill, Geithner Makes Case for Bank Tax
        
At Volcker Rule Deadline, a Strong Pushback From Wall St.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (96%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEREGULATION (72%) American Bankers Association; Better Markets; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; Federal Reserve; Financial Services Roundtable; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; Treasury Department; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Office of Financial Research; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (83%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



271 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Brand Name Drugs Rose Steeply, AARP Study Finds

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Prices of drugs used widely by older adults showed an increase of 26 percent from 2005 to 2009, according to a new report issued by AARP. 

 BODY:
AARP said Tuesday that the prices of drugs used most widely by older Americans rose by nearly 26 percent from 2005 to 2009, nearly twice the rate of inflation. The Times reported:
The increase happened even as the price of generic drugs, which account for the vast majority of prescriptions, has been falling in recent years, the report found. "At a time when our country is contracting economically and inflation is really, really low, inflation in the cost of prescription drugs is going in the other direction," said Cheryl Matheis, the senior vice president for policy strategy at AARP, whose members are 50 and older. "The word we use is relentless because it just doesn't seem to abate."
But officials in the pharmaceutical industry criticized the report, saying that the expanded availability of generic drugs has slowed the increase in drug prices in recent years. "AARP has released yet another misleading pricing report that ignores key facts about the marketplace for prescription medicines and paints an inaccurate picture of prescription drug spending in the U.S.," the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry trade and lobbying group, said in a statement Tuesday.
The AARP report, which examined the retail prices of the 514 brand name and generic drugs most widely used by Medicare recipients, said that the price of generic drugs fell by nearly 31 percent from 2005 to 2009. But at the same time that brand-name drug prices grew by nearly 41 percent and specialty drugs rose more than 48 percent. The rate of inflation, by contrast, grew by just over 13 percent over the same period.
Read the full article, "AARP Study Says Price of Popular Drugs Rose 26%," and share your thoughts in the comments section. 

        
A Big Risk in the Health Care Handoff
        
Lipitor, Available to Anyone
        
A Dose of Confusion
        
Antipsychotics Overused in Nursing Homes, Audit Finds
        
A Common Infection, Commonly Overtreated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (92%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (92%); DRUG PRICES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BRANDING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); AGING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); MEDICARE (73%); AUDITS (72%); NURSING HOMES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); LOBBYING (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (62%) costs; drugs; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Elderly; Generic Brands and Products; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); News & Research

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%); PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



272 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Dredging the Savannah River

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: For a mix of economic and environmental reasons, opponents line up against a proposal to deepen the waterway to accommodate bigger ships. 

 BODY:
Conservation groups ask the South Carolina Supreme Court to nullify actions by a state board green-lighting the deepening of the Savannah River. The project pits environmentalists and the state assembly against Gov. Nikki Haley, who supports the deepening project. Beyond environmental considerations, South Carolina lawmakers say the dredging effort would give Savannah a competitive advantage over Charleston by allowing larger container ships to reach the Georgia port. [The Post and Courier]
A year after Japan's Fukushima crisis, more than half of Americans would still support a freeze on nuclear construction in the United States if renewable energy sources could meet demand in the near term. (The numbers supporting nuclear construction slid after the reactor calamity in March 2011 but have not inched back up.) [Civil Society Institute]
Oil seeping naturally from the ocean floor is taking an unusual toll on seabirds along the Southern California coast. Especially affected are murres, a penguinlike species that has been moving farther south, reaching the vicinity of a naturally oily area known as Coal Oil Point. [The Los Angeles Times]
The global shipping industry failed to make headway on developing market-based measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions in a weeklong environmental meeting, the International Maritime Organization says. The stumbling block, as ever, was calls by developing nations to have industrialized countries shoulder more of the cost. [Bloomberg BNA]

        
Is Fukushima a Roadblock, or Just a Speed Bump?
        
Citing the Gipper in an Energy Debate
        
Chemical Antidote Is Unnerving to Some
        
In Response to California Fuel Regulation, Cargo Ships Chart More Precarious Routes
        
Report Outlines Best Practices for Connecting Renewables to the Grid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (79%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ADMIRALTY LAW (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (70%); OCEANS (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%) California; dredging; emissions; Fukushima Daiichi; Georgia; nuclear construction; oil; polls; Savannah River; seabirds; shipping; South Carolina; Air Pollution; Alternative Energy; Breaking News; climate change; Emissions Reduction; Nuclear Energy; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; wildlife

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH CAROLINA SUPREME COURT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MARITIME ORGANIZATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: NIKKI HALEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (91%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



273 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Sell $6 Billion Worth of A.I.G. Shares

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: The Treasury Department announced a plan to sell $6 billion of its American International Group shares, with A.I.G. planning to buy back up to $3 billion worth. 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department announced a plan on Wednesday to sell $6 billion of its American International Group shares, further whittling down the federal government's holdings in the insurance giant it helped bail out during the financial crisis.
As part of the offering, which is expected to be completed in a few days, A.I.G. will buy back up to $3 billion worth of the common stock that the Treasury Department is selling.
A.I.G. will also repay $8.5 billion in other obligations to the Treasury Department, principally using proceeds gained from various asset sales.
The plan is the latest effort by the federal government to unwind its $182 billion bailout of A.I.G. in 2008.
Last spring, the Treasury Department sold off 200 million shares of the insurer in ahighly awaited offering known as the "re-I.P.O." of A.I.G.
Yet that sale still left the government owning about 77 percent of the company, down from 92 percent.
Upon the completion of the new stock offering, the government will own a stake in the company worth about $41.8 billion, or roughly 70 percent, depending on how well the sale fares.
For A.I.G., shedding the Treasury's ownership stake would not only remove a haunting reminder of the company's near-death experience, but also bolster its status as a fully functioning company and erase any doubt that it is no longer a ward of the state.
"The bottom line is this: The people of A.I.G. have achieved another significant milestone in our progress toward our goal that American taxpayers recoup their entire investment in A.I.G. at a profit," Robert H. Benmosche, the insurer's chief executive, said in a statement. "We are very pleased with our progress to date and look forward to building on our momentum."
And for the government, disposing of the stake would close the chapter on one of the most controversial bailouts in recent memory.
Still, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is owed about $9.3 billion through a loan that is supporting a special entity that holds some mortgage-related securities the government bought from A.I.G. as part of its rescue.
A.I.G. has labored to raise money to pay back its government obligations and to shore up its operations. In the more than three years since its bailout, the company has spun off or sold major international units. It hopes to spin off additional divisions, notably the International Lease Finance Corporation, an aircraft-leasing business, in the near future.
Last month, A.I.G. reported improving results at most of its core businesses, and its operating profit exceeded analysts' expectations. Itsfourth-quarter profit, however, received an enormous lift from a one-time accounting benefit.
Shares of the company rose 1.4 percent to $29.45 on Wednesday, though they fell in after-hours trading. They have risen about 27 percent so far this year.
The sale of the Treasury's A.I.G. common shares is being managed by Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.

        
A.I.G. Offers to Buy Back Securities for $15.7 Billion
        
A.I.G. and Treasury Pick 4 Banks for Big Stock Sale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (95%); INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (68%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AIG; American International Group; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Treasury Department; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Treasury Department

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (61%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



274 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: How Citi Could Be More Transparent

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Citigroup could start by catching up with other big Wall Street banks and releasing how much capital it has supporting its investment banking unit. 

 BODY:
Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, likes to talk about transparency, and on Wednesday he repeated his call for new ways to compare the risks at different banks.
But there's a crucial number that Citigroup doesn't give out - and it's one that is likely to help investors assess risks at the bank.
Taking questions at the Citi Financial Services Conference at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York, Mr. Pandit was asked whether the bank's risk management had improved since the financial crisis. As part of his response, he reiterated his belief, stated in an opinion piece in The Financial Times in January, that banks and regulators could make new types of disclosures that would allow investors to compare risks across different banks. "Let's make sure we get a level playing field and let's get the information out in the market place so they can decide," he said Wednesday.
That's an admirable aim, but Citigroup could start by catching up with other big banks and releasing how much capital it has supporting its investment banking unit, called securities and banking. The unit had $894 billion of assets at the end of last year. Among American entities on Wall Street, only Goldman Sachs has more assets. But Goldman and Morgan Stanley disclose how much capital they have, allowing investors to judge whether their loss buffers are sufficient. JPMorgan Chase discloses capital for its investment banking unit, though it has been at $40 billion exactly for several quarters, raising questions about the number's usefulness.
This doesn't mean the securities and banking entity at Citigroup is skating on thin ice. Citigroup has raised its capital substantially over the last four years, and it presumably has some freedom to move more capital into units if they need it. But until investors get a better idea of the capital deployed at Citigroup's units, they have reason to call on Mr. Pandit to first apply more transparency to his own bank.

        
Citigroup's Pandit Shows Love for Dodd-Frank
        
With Citigroup Stabilized, Parsons Decides to Retire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) Citigroup; Vikram Pandit; Pandit, Vikram S; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Investment Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (91%) Pandit, Vikram S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



275 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The Future of the Santorum Coalition

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Does a combination of social conservatism and economic populism point the way forward for the Republican Party? 

 BODY:
Rick Santorum's victories in Tennessee, Oklahoma and North Dakota on Super Tuesday, and his very strong showing in Ohio, will give hope to journalists who love the horse race, without changing the underlying dynamics of the Republican contest. Bloodied, balked and widely mistrusted, Mitt Romney is still going to slog his way to the nomination.
But Santorum's performance both north and south of the Mason-Dixon line offers an opportunity to appreciate just how well he's done, despite enormous disadvantages. This was a candidate, after all, who entered the primary campaign with no money, no endorsements, no national following and the baggage of his disastrous 2006 Senate re-election bid dragging behind him. 
Only a little over two months ago, the former Pennsylvania senator was supposed to be a no-hope non-factor in the race for the Republican nomination. Only a month ago, after South Carolina and Florida, he was supposed to be nice little story whose 15 minutes had run out. 
And yet he has ended up as Mitt Romney's most formidable challenger. Yes, he might have won more votes in Michigan and Ohio if he hadn't blundered, all-too-characteristically, into pointless debates about John F. Kennedy's church-state speech and the value of a college education. But nobody expected him to be in a position to have his blunders matter at all.
The easy explanation for Santorum's unlikely rise is that he lucked into it. Almost all of the Republican candidates got their surge in at some point, their week or two as a pseudo-front-runner, and unlike Michele Bachmann, Herman Cain and Rick Perry before him, Santorum's moment in the sun just happened to coincide with the actual voting. 
But this undersells the sweater-vested social conservative's achievement. It's easy to get a bump in your support when the field is large, the scrutiny is light, and the polls are purely hypothetical. It's harder to turn that bump into actual votes, and then to keep getting votes after your opponents have turned their fire on you. And it's particularly hard to pick up those votes not just in one or two states where you've campaigned intensely or have some direct personal connection, but across different states and different regions, against determined, deep-pocketed opposition.
This is what sets Santorum apart from the rest of the not-Romneys: He's the only one who's come close to putting together a national coalition behind his candidacy. He's had his share of blowout losses, but he's won or performed respectably in the Mountain West, the Plains States, the Midwest and now the South. By contrast, it's hard to imagine, even in a scenario where they had surged at the right time to win Iowa, also-rans like Perry or Bachmann performing anywhere near as well as Santorum in Rust Belt states like Michigan and Ohio. And while Newt Gingrich's resilience has been modestly impressive, it's been entirely regional. Gingrich has barely been competitive outside the South.
Santorum's coalition is roughly the same one that Mike Huckabee tried to assemble in 2008. With a demographic mix of evangelicals and blue-collar Republicans, and a message that's conservative on social issues but more populist than the party's Wall Street wing on economics, it's proven capable of delivering states from Minnesota to Mississippi, the Rockies to the Rust Belt. 
This should have been Tim Pawlenty's comfort zone, but the former Minnesota governor elected to eschew all but a symbolic populism, campaigning as a cookie-cutter conservative rather than as the "Sam's Club Republican" that he used to advertise himself as. Once Pawlenty's campaign stalled out, the space was left open for Santorum, and he filled it more successfully than anyone expected.
Of course, like Huckabee, he's on his way to falling short. But given his weaknesses, structural and personal - including the absence of Huckabee's trademark wit - it's remarkable how far he's come, and how durable this coalition has proven itself from one cycle to another. A candidate with more money, more policy substance, and more finesse on culture-war issues - like Huckabee in 2008, Santorum has underperformed among Catholic voters, many of whom do not share his traditionalist zeal - the overall strategy might offer a blueprint for winning a future Republican primary campaign. 
That sounds surprising, because there's a tendency to see social conservatism as inherently backward-looking, and to assume that Santorum's campaign must be the last gasp of the Republican Party's most reactionary remnant. 
But the main domestic argument that he's tried to make - about the link between family breakdown and economic disarray - has more relevance to the challenges facing Americans in the early 21st century than the Reagan nostalgia that too often passes for policy thinking from the party's tax cutting and foreign policy hawks. Ours is increasingly a country where sky-high economic expectations coexist with middle class wage stagnation, and where the idealization of married life coexists with steadily rising out-of-wedlock births. In this atmosphere, the fusion of a (moderate) social conservatism and a right-leaning economic populism could end up having a broader appeal than many alternative right-of-center visions.
Whether that actually happens depends on whether future Republican presidential hopefuls decide to learn from, adapt and improve upon the Huckabee-Santorum template. If they do, it's possible that what Santorum has accomplished in the last few months will be remembered, not as the last glimpse of the Republican past, but as a plausible sketch of the Republican future.

        
The Silver Medalists
        
Other People's Suffering
        
Can Santorum Win in November?
        
Mitt Romney's Thirst
        
Rick Santorum's Pincer Movement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); WRITERS (78%); RELIGION (51%) Mike Huckabee; Mitt Romney; presidential election of 2008; presidential election of 2012; Presidential Election of 2016; Rick Santorum; Gingrich, Newt; Huckabee, Mike; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (93%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (88%); RICK PERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (72%); HERMAN CAIN (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%) Gingrich, Newt; Huckabee, Mike; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



276 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Career Concerns in Chicago

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: If Chicago's current mayor has aspirations for higher office, that might in the city's best interest, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
Chicago has been in the news twice recently, once for being ranked as the most corrupt American city and this week for losing its opportunity to hold the Group of 8 economic summit meeting in May. The economics of the two events are related.
A study at the University of Illinois at Chicago and the University of Illinois Institute of Government and Public Affairs found that Chicago city officials, especially aldermen, were convicted by the federal government for corrupt activities while in office more often than officials in other cities.
It's been decades since a Chicago mayor has been convicted of a crime while in office. But something has seemed different in that office too, because its holder had been named Richard Daley for 42 of the 56 years from 1955 to 2011 (first Richard J. Daley, then his son Richard M. Daley). It's also been at least decades since a Chicago mayor sought a higher office. 
A promotion tournament is one way that labor economists have suggested that people can be provided incentives to behave well in their jobs, be they in the private or public sector. The idea is that people have an extra reason to do their job well when they expect to be closely evaluated on the occasion of a promotion decision.

Promotions are sometimes a factor in political careers, too. Aldermen sometimes become mayors and mayors governors. Both George W. Bush and Bill Clinton were governors before being elected president. Officials are sometimes criticized for looking toward higher offices, but those aspirations might give them an extra reason to stay away from corruption, lest credible accusations of corruption mar their campaigns.
Many Chicago mayors have not been expected to pursue higher office. Richard J. Daley and Harold Washington died in office. Richard M. Daley retired, and Chicagoans do not expect him to run for governor, senator or president.
The current mayor, Rahm Emanuel, could be different. He is a prominent figure in the national Democratic Party. If, hypothetically, he were building a rsum for governor or another office, that could be good for Chicago. The better Chicago performs while he is mayor, the better his rsum will look.
Indeed, Mayor Emanuel has already involved himself in statewide, national and international interests. He was eager to play host to the G-8; although that was moved to Camp David, Chicago will be the site of a NATO meeting this year.
Mayors often concern themselves with the city's public school system through high school. Mayor Emanuel has looked a bit presidential in tackling higher education, too.
Thus, while Chicagoans have wondered why their city should endure the hassle of G-8 and NATO meetings, perhaps they should appreciate having a mayor who might have "career concerns." 

        
Political Dynasties and Competition
        
Supporting Bad Habits With Public Money
        
Will the I.R.S. Be Busy Next Year?
        
The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits
        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); POLITICS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; Group of 8; NATO; politics; Rahm Emanuel; Richard M. Daley; Richrad J. Daley; Emanuel, Rahm; Mayors; Chicago (Ill); Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (89%); BILL CLINTON (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Emanuel, Rahm

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



277 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Despite Sluggish Activity, Deal Makers Optimistic

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Nearly half of the more than 100 bankers and lawyers surveyed by the Brunswick Group, a public relations firm, believe merger activity will rise both worldwide and in North America this year. 

 BODY:
For deal makers, 2012 has been a drag so far. But ever an optimistic lot, it appears that more than a few of them believe an upturn is around the corner.
Nearly half of the more than 100 bankers and lawyers surveyed by the Brunswick Group, a public relations firm, believe merger activity will rise both worldwide and in North America this year.
But it appears that such optimism may be tempered when confined to North American shores. About 42 percent of the respondents said they expected mergers activity to stay the same in North America, compared with only 28 percent believing that global deal levels would remain flat.
 Over all, the survey -- released on the eve of Tulane University's annual Corporate Law Institute, a gathering of mergers lawyers and advisers -- suggested deal makers still believed that conditions were ripe for striking transactions. As important drivers, the respondents cited improving economic conditions; huge stockpiles of corporate cash; and strong confidence among chief executives and corporate boardrooms.
Some 80 percent of deal makers said they believed the majority of transactions would be struck domestically by strategic buyers. Still, 52 percent expect foreign buyers to snap up assets in the United States, with vast majority of such buyers, 78 percent, expected to come from Asia.
Unsurprisingly, the biggest sources of deal activity are expected to be the energy and natural resources sectors, given the flurry of mergers in the oil patch over the past year. Indeed, the two biggest leveraged buyouts since the financial crisis -- the $7.2 billion takeover of the Samson Investment Company and the $7.15 billion acquisition of the El Paso Corporation's exploration and production divisions -- were both plays on a boom in natural gas exploration.
Other popular sectors cited by the survey's respondents were health care and technology.
Other highlights of the survey:

        
About 50 percent of respondents believe that hostile deals -- like Roche Holding's $5.7 billion bid for Illumina and Martin Marietta Materials' $4.8 billion offer for Vulcan -- will rise.
        
The vast majority of respondents, 82 percent, believe the increased public scrutiny of private equity prompted by Mitt Romney's run for president will not have any impact on leveraged buyout activity. Yet 76 percent believe it will lead to higher taxes on the industry.
        
Deal advisers in North America differ with their counterparts in Asia over the difficulties facing cross-border transactions. About 70 percent of China-based respondents say they believe it is easier for American companies to buy Chinese assets, while 44 percent of North American deal makers say the reverse is easier.
Brunwick Group M.&amp;A. survey
-- 

        
A Mirror Can Be a Dangerous Tool for Some C.E.O.'s
        
El Paso Corp. Chief Defends His Actions in Kinder Morgan Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (69%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%) Brunswick Group; Corporate Law Institute; El Paso; Illumina; Kinder Morgan; Roche Holdings; Samson Investment Company; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (83%); SAMSON INVESTMENT CO (66%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (53%); MARTIN MARIETTA MATERIALS INC (52%); KINDER MORGAN INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (53%); MLM (NYSE) (52%); KMI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (83%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327410 LIME MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (52%); NAICS212312 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE MINING & QUARRYING (52%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



278 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Alberta's premier says she is confident that the United States will ultimately approve the Keystone XL pipeline because it affords mutual benefits for both countries. 

 BODY:
 Alison M. Redford, the premier of Alberta, said Wednesday that the debate over Canada's oil sands development and the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline was tainted by a campaign of "misleading and false information" from opponents.
Speaking at a breakfast for reporters in Washington, Ms. Redford said that Alberta was in the world and said it was in the short- and long-term interests of Canada and the United States to extract it, ship it, refine it and burn it. 
 "This is a resource for which demand is only going to grow," said Ms. Redford, a lawyer and politician who turned 47 on Wednesday. "There is no question there will continue to be demand for it. And there is no question there will continue to be questions about our province's ability to produce it responsibly."
 She said that Alberta had some of the toughest environmental regulations in the world and that the land where the heavy oil is mined was being rapidly reclaimed.

 Environmentalists contend that extracting oil from tar sands is an extremely energy-intensive enterprise that significantly worsens global warming. James Hansen, the well-known climate scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, has said that fully exploiting Canada's oil sands means "game over" for the global climate.
 Ms. Redford acknowledged that mining the oil sands creates greenhouse gas emissions. "There's no sugar-coating that," she said, while adding that it adds only one-tenth of 1 percent to total global emissions. 
 Turning to the controversy over the Keystone XL pipeline, which a Canadian company wants to build to ship the Albertan oil to refineries along the Gulf Coast, Ms. Redford said that the project would provide mutual energy, economic and jobs benefits to Canada and the United States. She said that if the pipeline is evaluated on its merits, it will ultimately be approved.
 President Obama first delayed and then rejected the project, saying that more environmental review was necessary. But he encouraged the builder, TransCanada, to resubmit its permit application and he has given every sign that he will approve the project after the November election.
 Ms. Redford is willing to wait. "There is some political concern -- I'm not denying that," she said. She added that she was "very optimistic" that the United States would approve the plan, which is critical to Alberta's oil-dependent economy.
 "There really is an energy economy in Alberta, and we're going to continue to build that economy," she said. "We're never going to be dress manufacturers in Alberta."

        
State Department Readies an R.S.V.P.
        
Keystone XL's Cousin Shuts Down Twice
        
Keystone XL Hearing Begins
        
On Our Radar: Gaping Hole in Arctic Ozone
        
Debate Heats Up Over Oil Sands

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (95%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (87%); GREENHOUSE GASES (87%); APPROVALS (85%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (66%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (51%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (50%) 2012 presidential elections; Alison M. Redford; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Keystone XL pipeline; Oil Sands; State Department; TransCanada Corporation (Org);; Hansen, James E; Obama, Barack; Global Warming; Keystone Pipeline System; Pipelines; Presidential Election of 2012; TransCanada Corporation; Alberta (Canada); Canada; United States; TransCanada Corporation|TRP|NYSE; Breaking News; Business; Conventional Energy; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (55%) TransCanada Corporation

TICKER: TransCanada Corporation; TRP; NYSE

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%) Hansen, James E; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (96%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ARCTIC (79%) Alberta (Canada); Canada; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



279 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: It's Moderately Super Wednesday!

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins on Romney, Rush, the sexual revolution and spring training. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, you were right. You predicted that the Republican presidential race was going to drag on into the summer, like one of those reality TV shows about hoarders that simultaneously appall and mesmerize onlookers. 
Truly, if Newt Gingrich had a few dead cats in the kitchen, it would be exactly the same thing.
David Brooks: I only wish Romney had a few dead cats in his. Maybe that would humanize him. I've obviously never seen Mitt Romney's closets, but I feel pretty certain they are much better organized than mine. Maybe that's why people don't warm to him. 
Gail: Yes, I definitely can imagine him lining up the shoes according to color. I don't generally believe that what happens in March of a presidential election year means much about how things will look in October. But the fact that Mitt Romney can't seem to put away Rick Santorum - Rick Santorum - cannot possibly be a good sign for Republicans.
David: I strongly think Romney will look a lot better in six months he does now. All the things that cause him problems today will be benefits in the fall. He's moderate. He's pragmatic. Plus, in the fall he will be able to have a debate over the role of government with Obama. The public is closer to the Republicans on that issue.
 Romney will still have his problems with downmarket voters, but Obama isn't exactly their cup of tea either. 
Gail: There's been a lot of talk lately about the Republicans being demographically doomed. Their strong suit - white, non-college voters - is shrinking while young and minority and college-educated voters are growing. Also, I believe Republicans do well with white married women but not so much with white single women. And as we've noted before, the married-women sector is dwindling.
David: I'm very skeptical of demographic projections about American politics. Parties change and win and lose constituencies all the time. Republicans used to win on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and lose the Pennsylvania steel towns. Now it's usually the reverse. Issues and problems shape politics more than demographics. 
Gail: Can we stick to the topic of women for a minute? I've been fascinated by how this whole contraception debate has been playing out. For one thing, the Democratic party ought to send flowers to Rush Limbaugh - although probably not from the flower service that just canceled its ads on his program. 
David: I've always said he's a secret paid operative of the Democratic Party. That is the only theory that consistently explains his behavior. 
Gail: If you look back on what's happened to women over the last half-century - how the world has opened up for them to have adventures, pursue careers, make choices about the kind of lives they want to live - it all goes back to effective contraception. Before the birth control pill came along, a woman who wanted to pursue a life that involved a lot of education, or a long climb up a career ladder, pretty much had to be willing to devote herself to perpetual celibacy.
That's what contraception means to women. And there's Rush, making it clear that to him and his kind, it means a license to promiscuity, prostitution. You cannot possibly have a bigger gap in world views.
David: Well, you wrote the book on this, so I fear to tread, but I disagree. I think the shift from an industrial economy to an information economy was the big thing that explains the liberation of women. The shift from brawn to brainpower.
The sexual revolution, contraception, abortion and all that has left American women as divided and ambivalent as American men. I just don't think there is a "woman's" position on these issues. True, the vast majority percent of Americans, male and female, are fine with contraception, narrowly defined, but gender does not correlate well to views on social issues generally.
Gail: I know we disagree about the right of the Catholic bishops to refuse to offer any kind of health insurance that includes contraception. If I remember my college theology, President Obama has set the program up in a way that should remove any moral issue for Catholic administrators, since their intent would be to offer health care to their employees, while the contraceptives - which they wouldn't pay for - would be a byproduct that they didn't seek. 
The bishops are being played by Republicans who want to kill off the Obama health care reforms. And whatever you think of health care reform, its goal of providing coverage to all Americans, requiring responsibility of those who can afford to pay and giving aid to those who can't, is totally in concert with the Church's social goals.
David: I liked the fallback position Obama adopted. It was phony, but respectful, which is the sort of fudge we make all the time in the real world. 
Gail: I'll go with you on that. We need more phony but respectful gestures in this country.
David: I don't think the bishops are being played. They are sophisticated political actors. But they are the first of many who will see the true ramifications of the Obama health care reforms. They insert government between employers and employees and into all the open spaces throughout the health care system. Government officials will have the power to order all sorts of things in the name of values, efficiency or whatever else they can think up. I invite you to imagine how the Obama health care initiative will be implemented if Rick Santorum become president.
Gail: Well, we'll certainly have a useful and interesting time arguing about this - in September. Until then, it looks like it'll be nothing but delegate counts. And fantasies about a knight in shining armor who bears an improbable resemblance to Chris Christie or Mitch Daniels. And who hates Iran more. Wonderful way to spend the spring. Bring on the daffodils.
David: Daffodils? They are already blooming in Washington. And I spent Super Tuesday at Port St. Lucie, Fla., watching my beloved Mets play the Cardinals. I even wrangled a press pass so I could hang around the clubhouse. For me, spring is here. The tobacco juices are flying!

        
Should Obama Have His Own Plan B?
        
Apocalypse Iowa
        
Super Pac! Super Bad!
        
David's Awesome Tie Story
        
State of the Republicans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); RELIGION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); WOMEN (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); MARRIAGE (62%) affordable care act; contraception; mitt romney; Republican primary campaign; Rick Santorum; Roman Catholic Church; Gingrich, Newt; Limbaugh, Rush; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (90%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%) Gingrich, Newt; Limbaugh, Rush; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



280 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup's Pandit Shows Love for Dodd-Frank

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: At a speech on Wednesday, Vikram Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, championed an idea that most Wall Street titans would shun: regulation is good. 

 BODY:
Is Vikram S. Pandit the anti-Jamie Dimon
Speaking to a packed ballroom at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in Manhattan on Wednesday, Mr. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, championed an idea that most Wall Street titans would shun: regulation is good. 
Banks, he said, deserved new rules after Wall Street nearly collapsed in 2008. "There needed to be changes," Mr. Pandit told analysts, investors and fellow bankers at the Citi Financial Services Conference. 
And changes they got. Congress passed a broad regulatory overhaul in 2010, named the Dodd-Frank Act, which reined in lax lending standards, risky trading and the complex derivatives market. 
In response to a question from the audience about the toll such sprawling new regulations would take on Wall Street, Mr. Pandit said he supported "a lot" of the regulatory crackdown. 
Jamie Dimon, the top boss at JPMorgan Chase, has not been so warm and fuzzy. 
Mr. Dimon's anti-regulatory rhetoric has included stabs at new derivatives rules - which he said "would damage America" - and a wave of new bank capital rules that he described as "anti-American." 
To be fair, Mr. Dimon has also said he supports 80 percent of Dodd-Frank, including new mortgage rules and a policy that gives regulators the power to wind down troubled firms rather than bail them out. And at the bank's recent investor day, Mr. Dimon said he supports "tons of reform."
"We agree with there was need for reform," he said. 
Still, Mr. Pandit has struck a more humble tone than his competitors, perhaps because his bank relied so heavily on taxpayers to stay afloat at the height of the financial crisis. Mr. Pandit on Wednesday also noted that his bank "is well suited for the proposed regulatory and capital regime" - or to put it another way, is "less exposed" to the revenue draining regulations than his competitors. 
Mr. Pandit has even taken a gentle approach with the Occupy Wall Street crowd's unbridled hatred for his profession. Last year, he called the protest movement's concerns "completely understandable," saying that it was up to Wall Street to "rebuild that trust" with scorned Americans. 
On the regulatory front, Mr. Pandit has taken a particular liking to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the centerpiece of Dodd-Frank. 
"We need to make sure consumers have more control, more choice," Mr. Pandit said on Wednesday. 
But he hardly endorsed the entire regulatory overhaul. 
There is one Dodd-Frank rule - the Volcker Rule -- that has bedeviled even the staunchest supporters of the crackdown. The rule, which bars banks from trading with their own money rather than for clients, threatens to eat into bank profits and confuse regulators. 
Mr. Pandit acknowledged that Wall Street was waiting anxiously for regulators to flesh out the controversial rule, named after Paul Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve who advocated the ban on proprietary trading. 
 "There are still a lot of unknowns out there," he said. 

        
'Twas the Week After Layoffs
        
Goldman Gives Blankfein $7 Million Stock Award

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%) Citigroup; Dodd-Frank; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Vikram Pandit; Volcker Rule; Pandit, Vikram S; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (95%); JAMES DIMON (91%) Pandit, Vikram S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



281 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Victories Expose Romney's Weakness, Obama Advisers Say

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: David Axelrod, the president's senior campaign adviser, likens Mitt Romney's struggle for the Republican nomination to a "death march." 

 BODY:
4:31 p.m. | Updated Top Obama campaign advisers on Wednesday said that Mitt Romney's victories in Super Tuesday's Republican presidential contests illustrate his growing weakness in attracting independent, middle-income and young voters. David Axelrod, a senior adviser, likened Mr. Romney's nomination struggle to a "death march" that may hobble him for the general election race.
 Mr. Axelrod joined Jim Messina, the campaign manager, in a morning-after conference call with reporters to contrast what they characterized as the damaging and ongoing fight among the four surviving Republican rivals with the Obama campaign's progress in constructing the political infrastructure to win in November. 
 "While they're destroying each other, we're building a campaign nationally," Mr. Axelrod said.
 Mr. Messina echoed him: "While they are moving to the right, we are on the ground organizing."
 Both men emphasized that while they still expect Mr. Romney to be the Republicans' nominee - "They're stuck with him," Mr. Axelrod said at one point -- he lost the majority of independent and middle-income voters in all 10 states that held Republican nomination contests on Tuesday, except in Massachusetts, where he was governor for one term.
 What makes such results especially important to the Obama campaign is that Mr. Obama has his own challenges in "President Obama and his campaign will say anything to try to distract from his abysmal record as president and the fact that his own party is rejecting him. attracting support among the working-class voters and independents who decide elections.
 The advisers discounted Mr. Romney's narrow win over Rick Santorum in Ohio - the prize of the night, and a coveted one in November as well - by noting that Mr. Romney had vastly outspent Mr. Santorum there. And separate from the Tuesday returns, both cited a Fox Latino poll this week that showed Mr. Romney was supported by just 14 percent of Latino voters after a campaign in which he has toughened his immigration stance to vanquish Republicans with less hard-line views.
 Mr. Axelrod dismissed the Romney campaign's post-Tuesday argument that its candidate's relative strength in cities - other Republicans, especially Mr. Santorum, dominate in rural areas - made Mr. Romney the Republicans' best choice to challenge Mr. Obama. The Romney team, Mr. Axelrod sniped, is "trying to turn hamburger into steak."
 As examples of the Obama campaign's expanding ground-game strength, Mr. Messina said that supporters last weekend registered 3,000 voters in North Carolina and about 2,000 in Virginia, both swing states. Nationwide the campaign had more than 1,000 house parties last week for women, as it exploits for political benefit Republicans' stand against an administration policy that would require employer-provided insurance to cover contraception.
 Mr. Messina said the Obama campaign, which has more field offices in the states than Mr. Romney, the only Republican with a sizable organization, now has 10 offices in the industrial-belt battlegrounds of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Nationally, he added, more than 1 million volunteers had signed up to join a "truth team" to push back on attacks against Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Axelrod tempered the advisers' otherwise bullish assessment a bit, saying that the Obama campaign was "fortified for a tough race" given the combination of continued hard times for many Americans and the prospect that Republican "super PACs" will spend "hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars" against Mr. Obama through the fall.
 But, he added, "if you look at where we were six months ago and where we are today, we believe we're making steady progress because of what we're doing, because of what the economy is doing and because of what the Republicans are doing." 
Update:Andrea Saul, a spokesman for Mr. Romney, responded to the men's comments in a statement saying, "President Obama and his campaign will say anything to try to distract from his abysmal record as president and the fact that his own party is rejecting him." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); IMMIGRATION (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIM MESSINA (78%); RICK SANTORUM (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



282 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: What Makes Gasoline Prices Go Up?

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Cognitive dissonance persists on the presidential campaign trail and in Congress, but some energy statistics are telling. 

 BODY:
On the day after Super Tuesday, the federal Energy Information Administration came out with a striking fact: in 2011, the United States, for the first time since 1949, exportedmore petroleum products than it imported. 
On the big primary voting day, the same agency delivered news that might be even more relevant to current campaign oratory: the rise in gasoline prices is expected to continue. Its short-term forecast seemed particularly bleak: "During the April through September summer driving season this year, prices are forecast to average about $3.92 per gallon with a peak monthly average price of $3.96 per gallon in May." 
The current average price for regular-grade gasoline is $3.74; the forecast could make $4 or $4.50 gasoline inevitable in places like California, where taxes are higher than in many other states. Some analysts have speculated that the price could hit $5 a gallon.
So who do Americans blame when gasoline prices go up?
In a recent Pew Research Center-Washington Post poll, they spread the blame, with 18 percent finding the Obama administration responsible, 14 percent blaming the oil companies, 11 percent feeling that unrest in the Middle East was the crux of the problem and 38 percent giving a variety of other explanations. 
But among self-identified Republicans, one-third blamed the Obama administration. So have some leading Republican politicians, including the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell. "Over the past few weeks, the American people have begun to feel the painful effects of President Obama's energy policy," the Kentucky Republican said, adding: "Make no mistake: The rising price of gasoline isn't simply the result of forces we can't control."

As Exhibit A, proponents of this viewpoint cite the deferral of the permit needed for the Keystone XL pipeline to bring oil from Canada's tar sands along its planned pathway through the United States to the Gulf Coast. 
Environmentalists, who had pushed hard to block the pipeline, applauded the Obama administration's recent refusal to approve one for now (although many expect it to do so after November elections). But Republicans like Representative Joe Barton of Texas blasted it. "We fought and won World War II in less time than it's taken so far to evaluate this project," he said.
Republicans also contend that regulatory hurdles are impeding increased drilling. Yet this hardly dovetails with Tuesday's forecast from the Energy Information Administration "The largest area of forecast non-OPEC growth will be North America, where production increases by 360,000 barrels a day and 190,000 barrels a day in 2012 and 2013, respectively, resulting from continued production growth from U.S. onshore shale formations and Canadian oil sands," it said.
The Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich has promised that, if elected, he would usher in an era of $2.50 gasoline. Another, Mitt Romney, told CNBC on Wednesday that the president cannot be held directly responsible for rising gas prices but criticized Mr. Obama for keeping some areas, like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, off limits to drilling. (Mr. Gingrich recently challenged Mr. Romney to a debate on gas prices. Mr. Romney's camp said no way.)
President Obama, for his part, has said, "There are no quick fixes to this problem, and you know that we can't just drill our way to lower gas prices." He added, "If we're going to take control of our energy future and avoid these gas price spikes down the line, then we need a sustained, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy -- oil, gas, wind, solar, nuclear, biofuels and more."
On Wednesday, Jeff Bingman of New Mexico, the Democrat who chairs the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, went further and set out to detail what influences oil and gasoline prices in a speech. The speech by Mr. Bingaman, who is not seeking re-election, was a reprise of of one last year in which he defended President Obama on the gasoline-price front.
This time, he provided large graphics to illustrate points like:
Gasoline prices in Europe fluctuate in tandem with gasoline prices in the United States because both are based on global oil prices. "While domestic oil production plays an important role in the energy security and economy of our own country," he said, "its contribution to the world oil balance is not sufficient to bring global oil prices down."Oil production increases in the United States outstripped that of all other major producers from 2008 to 2011.The increases in production, both onshore and offshore, come after several years of decline in the mid-2000s. 
And Senator Bingaman's remedy for the rising gasoline prices? Use less oil.

        
Who Will Step Up to Meet Oil Demand?
        
In Memorial Day Forays, an Economic Snapshot
        
Dissecting This Week's Oil Price Tumble
        
A Tipping Point for Oil Prices
        
Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL SANDS (87%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 2012 presidential elections; economy; gasoline prices; oil production; United States; Bingaman, Jeff; Gingrich, Newt; McConnell, Mitch; Obama, Barack; Democratic Party; Energy Information Administration; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Republican Party; Washington Post; Business; Conventional Energy; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%) Democratic Party; Energy Information Administration; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Republican Party; Washington Post

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); JEFF BINGAMAN (73%); JOE BARTON (57%) Bingaman, Jeff; Gingrich, Newt; McConnell, Mitch; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



283 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: What Would Rush Limbaugh Have Said to Margaret Sanger?

BYLINE: VERA TITUNIK


HIGHLIGHT: You can imagine what Rush Limbaugh, who came up with some choice words for a Georgetown Law School birth-control advocate, might have called Sanger, who, though technically married and the mother of three, had a number of ardent lovers, including a Spanish militant with whom she traipsed around Europe during months of self-imposed exile. 

 BODY:
I'm reading a biography of Margaret Sanger, the birth-control activist, called "Woman of Valor," by Ellen Chesler, and although I'm only up to 1920 and the legalization of contraception is still a long way off, the story suddenly seems bizarrely contemporary. You can imagine what Rush Limbaugh, who came up with some choice words for a Georgetown Law School birth-control advocate, might have called Sanger, who, though technically married and the mother of three, had a number of ardent lovers, including a Spanish militant with whom she traipsed around Europe during months of self-imposed exile. Actually, she was on the lam. She had been charged in the United States with distribution of a pamphlet called "Family Limitation," which discussed birth control methods and pleaded for women to "know their own bodies." Under the Comstock Act, passed in 1873 and still in force in 1914, this amounted to obscenity.
When Sanger returned to the United States, she went on the lecture circuit, gathering support among the working-class women she was most intent on reaching and also among society women, whose influence would prove crucial. Sanger had trained as a nurse, and knew from her experience (and her mother's ill health and 18 pregnancies) that a lack of birth-control information led to suffering, both physical and economic, among poor women. She didn't think legislative change would happen, and opted for defiance, opening a clinic in a poor immigrant neighborhood in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, knowing full well she would be shut down, arrested and jailed. And that the publicity would help her cause.
Sanger and her sister covered the neighborhood with handbills in English, Yiddish and Italian, which read:
"Mothers! Can you afford to have a large family? Do you want any more children? If not, why do you have them? DO NOT KILL. DO NOT TAKE LIFE, BUT PREVENT."
That sentiment - prevention rather than abortion - is not very controversial now, despite all the recent upset about employers or health insurers paying for birth control. And the women of Brownsville apparently thought it wise, too. The clinic was open 10 days before an undercover policewoman infiltrated, and it was soon shut down. Sanger reopened it, and was quickly arrested and evicted. But during the few weeks it was open, 464 women came to the clinic and waited patiently for advice they clearly were eager to receive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (93%); WOMEN (90%); ARRESTS (88%); CHILDREN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); ABORTION (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%) Limbaugh, Rush; Sanger, Margaret; Birth Control and Family Planning; Politics and Government; Women and Girls

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (91%) Limbaugh, Rush; Sanger, Margaret

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



284 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Government's Role in British Bank Creates Uneasy Alliance

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: When Britain bailed out the Royal Bank of Scotland in 2008, the government promised to remain a passive investor. But some employees and analysts now say the line has blurred. 

 BODY:
LONDON - It's hard to tell sometimes who is calling the shots at the Royal Bank of Scotland: management or politicians.
When Britain bailed out the financial firm in 2008 and took a majority stake, the government promised to remain a passive investor. But some employees and analysts now say the line has blurred, as politicians push the bank to rein in executive compensation, bolster lending and limit risky businesses.
Amid a public outcry over pay, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain announced that cash bonuses at the investment banking unit would be capped this year at 2,000, or $3,160, and that the annual payout for the bank's chief executive, Stephen Hester, should not exceed 1 million. With anger mounting among politicians, Mr. Hester declined to take his bonus altogether.
 "If you own 82 percent of a bank, the political opposition takes it as given that you should have ability to influence decisions," said Bruce van Saun, the bank's chief financial officer. "From a political perspective, it makes it harder to take the ostrich view."
In the current environment, banks in Europe and the United States are feeling political pressure to adjust their strategies. Government officials, facing anemic growth and high unemployment, want financial firms to increase their lending to bolster the economy. But many bank executives are looking to shrink their balance sheet and limit loans in an effort to revive profits.
The tensions are especially acute at the Royal Bank of Scotland, given that British taxpayers are liable for 45 billion. Three years after the financial crisis, the bank remains unprofitable, even though the losses have been cut. And the stock price has been halved since the government first injected money into the struggling bank.
While the bank says management makes its own decisions and politicians insist they do not dictate strategy, the government has recently taken a more hands-on role in the bank's operations. During the bonus discussions, British treasury officials talked to the bank's executives several times a day. Each month, Mr. Hester or other top executives meet with the government-backed agency that manages the bank holding to discuss strategic initiatives, including the plan to shrink the investment banking unit. In contrast, bank executives formally meet with other shareholders just four times a year.
"Even if the management does have the final say, the government involvement is at least a distraction," said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers.
Last month, Britain's business secretary, Vince Cable, wrote a letter to the prime minister calling for the government to split the bank up. To help fuel the local economy, Mr. Cable recommended creating a lender focused on British businesses separate from the investment banking operation. The government should "recognize that R.B.S. will not return to the market in its current shape," he wrote, according to a copy of the letter obtained by the BBC. An official at the British treasury said the government did not back a breakup, saying it would hurt taxpayers' investment in the bank.
"It's a nave view for the government to say they are like any other shareholder," said Peter Hahn, a fellow at Cass Business School in London. "The government did not buy into it as an investment."
John Hourican, the lender's head of investment banking, described the bank's relationship with the government as "an unnatural alliance."
The dynamic is creating confusion inside the bank.
Late last year, George Osborne, Britain's finance minister, told Parliament to expect "significant reductions in the investment bank." The news shocked employees, who had not been expecting another round of layoffs.
To calm staff members, the bank sent an internal memo saying that Mr. Osborne's comments were "unsettling" and that "no decisions had been taken." Less than a month later, the bank announced it would close the cash equities business and merger advisory division and eliminate 3,500 additional investment banking jobs.
"This was handled very poorly, and a lot of people are still upset," said a banker there, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to talk publicly.
Employees say morale is suffering as a result. Another London-based banker, who declined to be named because he did not want to publicly complain about his job, said his team was taunted by rivals at other firms, which escaped a government bailout. At a recent black-tie dinner in London, the banker was told - as a joke - that it was surprising to see him there given that he was on the government payroll. Other competitors asked him for their taxpayer money back.
John Purcell, who runs a financial recruitment firm in London, said some people were reacting with "Churchillian bravery and stoicism," referring to Winston Churchill, who was known for his tenacity and courage during World War II. Posters with "Keep Calm and Carry On," a British slogan developed in World War II, have started to appear on some employees' desks.
Mr. van Saun, the chief financial officer, said that during his meetings, many employees lament: "I wasn't part of the problem and I feel bad about what happened, but I want to be part of the solution."
To rally the troops, executives have been touring bank branches to explain the turnaround strategy to workers. Each quarter, Mr. Hester or another top manager also records a 25-minute video to update employees on the state of the bank. They are also tracking staff sentiment through a survey with the human resources department.
At the investment banking division, Mr. Hourican tried to restore confidence when he assembled about 150 bankers in the bank's auditorium in London's financial district. "Let's have an honest dialogue," he told them. "It can be difficult, but you guys make a difference. You make a safer and sounder bank."
But for many employees, working at a firm that is constantly in the public focus can make it difficult to stay motivated. After glancing at the share price on his computer screens, Mr. Hourican said that when it came to the Royal Bank of Scotland, success could not just be measured in numbers.
"I'd like to see the shareholding change," he said. "That would be a success."
An article on Thursday about the growing role of the British government in the management of Royal Bank of Scotland, in which it took a majority stake as part of a 2008 bailout, referred incorrectly to the slogan on a poster that some bank employees have displayed on their desk. "Keep Calm and Carry On" was printed on a poster developed in 1939 for distribution in the event of a Nazi invasion of Britain. Only a few were ever distributed; it was not "Britain's World War II slogan." (An original copy of the poster surfaced in 2000 and reproductions became popular.)

        
Britain Rejects Plan to Split Up R.B.S.
        
Former Head of R.B.S. to Lose Knighthood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (62%) David Cameron; Royal Bank of Scotland; Stephen Hester; Vince Cable; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Bank of Scotland Plc

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); HL (LSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); STEPHEN HESTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



285 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: What Makes Gasoline Prices Go Up?

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Cognitive dissonance persists on the presidential campaign trail and in Congress, but some energy statistics are telling. 

 BODY:
On the day after Super Tuesday, the federal Energy Information Administration came out with a striking fact: in 2011, the United States, for the first time since 1949, exportedmore petroleum products than it imported. 
On the big primary voting day, the same agency delivered news that might be even more relevant to current campaign oratory: the rise in gasoline prices is expected to continue. Its short-term forecast seemed particularly bleak: "During the April through September summer driving season this year, prices are forecast to average about $3.92 per gallon with a peak monthly average price of $3.96 per gallon in May." 
The current average price for regular-grade gasoline is $3.74; the forecast could make $4 or $4.50 gasoline inevitable in places like California, where taxes are higher than in many other states. Some analysts have speculated that the price could hit $5 a gallon.
So who do Americans blame when gasoline prices go up?
In a recent Pew Research Center-Washington Post poll, they spread the blame, with 18 percent finding the Obama administration responsible, 14 percent blaming the oil companies, 11 percent feeling that unrest in the Middle East was the crux of the problem and 38 percent giving a variety of other explanations. 
But among self-identified Republicans, one-third blamed the Obama administration. So have some leading Republican politicians, including the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell. "Over the past few weeks, the American people have begun to feel the painful effects of President Obama's energy policy," the Kentucky Republican said, adding: "Make no mistake: The rising price of gasoline isn't simply the result of forces we can't control."

As Exhibit A, proponents of this viewpoint cite the deferral of the permit needed for the Keystone XL pipeline to bring oil from Canada's tar sands along its planned pathway through the United States to the Gulf Coast. 
Environmentalists, who had pushed hard to block the pipeline, applauded the Obama administration's recent refusal to approve one for now (although many expect it to do so after November elections). But Republicans like Representative Joe Barton of Texas blasted it. "We fought and won World War II in less time than it's taken so far to evaluate this project," he said.
Republicans also contend that regulatory hurdles are impeding increased drilling. Yet this hardly dovetails with Tuesday's forecast from the Energy Information Administration "The largest area of forecast non-OPEC growth will be North America, where production increases by 360,000 barrels a day and 190,000 barrels a day in 2012 and 2013, respectively, resulting from continued production growth from U.S. onshore shale formations and Canadian oil sands," it said.
The Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich has promised that, if elected, he would usher in an era of $2.50 gasoline. Another, Mitt Romney, told CNBC on Wednesday that the president cannot be held directly responsible for rising gas prices but criticized Mr. Obama for keeping some areas, like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, off limits to drilling. (Mr. Gingrich recently challenged Mr. Romney to a debate on gas prices. Mr. Romney's camp said no way.)
President Obama, for his part, has said, "There are no quick fixes to this problem, and you know that we can't just drill our way to lower gas prices." He added, "If we're going to take control of our energy future and avoid these gas price spikes down the line, then we need a sustained, all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of American energy -- oil, gas, wind, solar, nuclear, biofuels and more."
On Wednesday, Jeff Bingman of New Mexico, the Democrat who chairs the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, went further and set out to detail what influences oil and gasoline prices in a speech. The speech by Mr. Bingaman, who is not seeking re-election, was a reprise of of one last year in which he defended President Obama on the gasoline-price front.
This time, he provided large graphics to illustrate points like:
Gasoline prices in Europe fluctuate in tandem with gasoline prices in the United States because both are based on global oil prices. "While domestic oil production plays an important role in the energy security and economy of our own country," he said, "its contribution to the world oil balance is not sufficient to bring global oil prices down."Oil production increases in the United States outstripped that of all other major producers from 2008 to 2011.The increases in production, both onshore and offshore, come after several years of decline in the mid-2000s. 
And Senator Bingaman's remedy for the rising gasoline prices? Use less oil.

        
Who Will Step Up to Meet Oil Demand?
        
In Memorial Day Forays, an Economic Snapshot
        
Dissecting This Week's Oil Price Tumble
        
A Tipping Point for Oil Prices
        
Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL SANDS (87%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 2012 presidential elections; economy; gasoline prices; oil production; United States; Bingaman, Jeff; Gingrich, Newt; McConnell, Mitch; Obama, Barack; Democratic Party; Energy Information Administration; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Republican Party; Washington Post; Business; Conventional Energy; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%) Democratic Party; Energy Information Administration; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Republican Party; Washington Post

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); JEFF BINGAMAN (73%); JOE BARTON (57%) Bingaman, Jeff; Gingrich, Newt; McConnell, Mitch; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012



286 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2186 words

HEADLINE: They Made Main Street Their Own

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
WATER VALLEY, Miss.
OVER lunch at the B.T.C. Old-Fashioned Grocery here one day last month -- pear zucchini soup and cornbread madeleines -- the women of Water Valley were talking demolition.
Coulter Fussell, 34, an artist and an owner of Yalo Studio, a gallery a couple of doors down the block on the town's Main Street, favors a crowbar. Megan Patton, also 34, an artist, waitress and Ms. Fussell's gallery partner, likes to use a hammer and a screwdriver. Erin Austen Abbott, 36, a photographer, gift shop owner, pop-up gallery impresario and travel nanny, doesn't care what tool she uses, as long as she has company.
All are particularly skilled at renovation, having stripped and rebuilt, among them, three houses and one storefront. That their husbands are in the music business and on the road for months at a time has only accelerated their prowess with hand tools. They prefer to work alone or with one another.
''Let's just say it's better that way,'' Ms. Fussell said later. 
These women, along with Alexe van Beuren, 28, B.T.C.'s owner, are emblematic of a new wave of business and house owners, many of them female, who are revitalizing this small town of just under 4,000.
They are drawn here by the low commercial rents and inexpensive housing stock: a 25-foot-wide storefront on Main Street can rent for less than $600; a century-old clapboard house might cost $85,000. (Ms. van Beuren's was $6,000, though it was a total wreck, and she and her husband, Kagan Coughlin, who works in mortgage technology in nearby Oxford, Miss., paid an extra $1,000 to the squatters living there to get them to leave.)
What is especially appealing about Water Valley, besides its proximity to Oxford, home to the University of Mississippi and a 25-minute drive away, is that properties haven't been altered much since the lion's share of them were built between 1885 and the 1920s.
To be sure, a fair amount of shag carpeting, dropped ceilings and fake wood paneling has accumulated, but such things can be removed. (See demolition, above.)
Many of these houses have changed hands only once or twice. That's because economic stasis or outright depression can result in a population that plateaus, as Mickey Howley, an affable New Orleans transplant and the director of the Water Valley Main Street Association, pointed out, which means the existing structures have been able to handle the housing, retail and commercial needs of the place.
''The 1920s were the high point here,'' Mr. Howley said wryly.
Like many small Southern towns, Water Valley was a railroad hub and a business center for the surrounding agricultural community. When the railroad left for good midcentury, and agriculture became more mechanized or focused on timber, a crop that ''takes patience but not many people,'' said Ted Ownby, the director of the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi, Water Valley stopped growing.
''All through Mississippi there are these beautiful little towns,'' Mr. Ownby said, ''and too many of them, sadly, are empty storefronts and decaying housing. A few of them, like Water Valley, have had a revival because of a good idea or a few good ideas. Artists moving in is one option.''
Mr. Howley, a former history teacher and shrimp boat captain, and his wife, Annette Trefzer, a professor of American literature at the University of Mississippi, arrived in 2002. They are the third owners of their 1906 house, which sits on two acres, has four fireplaces and a wraparound porch and cost $80,000. When they opened an art gallery and artists' collective on Main Street in 2008 -- called, winningly, Bozarts Gallery -- there were 18 empty storefronts.
Now there are six, but even that figure belies a healthier reality, Mr. Howley said. Two of those six buildings have recently been purchased and restored, and are awaiting tenants. It is worth remembering that during the same period, the rest of the country has been mired in a recession. Water Valley's stories are running counter to the national narrative.
Ms. Fussell and her husband, Amos Harvey, whom she met while waiting tables at the Ajax Diner in Oxford, moved to Water Valley in 2004. Mr. Harvey was a little reluctant because until 2008 Water Valley, like many small towns in Mississippi, had a beer prohibition. (Hard alcohol has been legal since 1966.) In any case, Mr. Harvey likes to brew beer at home, not to mention drink it there. So he took the law personally, Ms. Fussell said.
But Water Valley's economic calculus was just too good. Their house, which was built in 1921, cost $80,000. It needed this and that, but nothing that some muscle couldn't fix. Its roof leaked, the furnace was shot and there was that shag carpeting everywhere, issues the two tackled together. (The carpet repulsed them enough, Ms. Fussell recalled, that after she and Mr. Harvey closed on the house, they drove over and ripped it out in the dark, with only their flashlights as illumination, alarming the neighbors who hurried over thinking the place was being robbed.)
The rest of the work, including removing the wallpaper, the dropped ceilings, the fake wood paneling and the old fixtures, Ms. Fussell did by herself, with her trusty crowbar. Mr. Harvey, a tour manager for LCD Soundsystem, among other bands, and a producer of blues singers like Precious Bryant, whom Ms. Fussell, a native Georgian, introduced him to, is on tour more than half of each year.
Ms. Abbott bought her house in 2005. Born in Oxford, she had been on the road for more than a decade, touring with various bands as a merchandiser, and then with other bands, like the Flaming Lips, as a travel nanny. (Travel nannies occupy a curious professional niche, accompanying band members who want to bring their families on the road and also have some alone time with their spouses.)
Ms. Abbott, who had lived in 8 cities in 11 years, said the rent she paid during that time added up to $80,000; her house cost $65,000. She renovated the place on her own, with a little help from Ms. Fussell, filling it with the midcentury vintage furniture she has collected over the years. (Ms. Abbott seems to be preternaturally energetic; this week, she started a travel nanny business with three other women.)
Three years later she met Sean Kirkpatrick, the guitarist with Colour Revolt, while both were on tour. He moved in when they married in 2010, bringing only his guitar and a framed map. ''Aren't you lucky?'' Ms. Fussell likes to say to her.
In 2007, Ms. Patton -- then Ms. Kingery -- left Oxford for Water Valley and bought her house for $85,000, no money down. Her monthly mortgage payments are $597, $3 less than her Oxford rent was. She, too, has gutted her house herself, because until last June, her husband, Matt Patton, whom she married over a year ago, lived in Alabama, where he had a job as a state health inspector. He's also a bass player for a couple of bands and, since June, an environmental scientist for the State of Mississippi.
A year and a half ago, Ms. Patton and Ms. Fussell, who are painters, rented a 10-foot-wide storefront that had housed a barbershop since 1880, and demolished its innards -- the by-now-familiar dropped ceiling, fake paneling and so forth. To renovate, they borrowed a couple of thousand dollars from Mr. Harvey (since repaid) and received a low-interest loan from Mr. Howley's organization, which also gave them a facade grant of $500.
The rent is $200 a month. They were going to call their gallery the Ex-Waitress Portrait Studio, since they met at Ajax Diner in Oxford, but settled for Yalo, a diminutive of Yalobusha, the name of Water Valley's county. In Choctaw, Yalobusha means ''the tadpole place,'' which seemed a fitting title for their skinny storefront.
Yalo Studio opened last April. With its swirly vintage-looking sign and awning, it was another bright spot on Main Street, and another locus for community doings. Its sign, designed by Ms. Fussell, was painted by Bill Warren, an artist who moved here from New Orleans with his wife, the artist Pati D'Amico, in 2008.
With creative immigration like this comes much civic cross-pollination. Mr. Warren has painted many of Main Street's new storefront signs. Ms. Fussell designs the graphics for all sorts of town boosterisms, including the World's Largest Crappie Festival, held here each May. (Mr. Harvey is booking the music.) Crappies are speckled freshwater fish that, as it happens, taste best fried in a beer batter, which made the beer prohibition even more confounding to some.
BUT the real game changer for Water Valley, Mr. Howley said, was the opening of the B.T.C. Old-Fashioned Grocery in 2010. Ms. van Beuren and Mr. Coughlin moved to town in 2007, and for $110,000 bought an elegant but derelict 140-year-old brick building that was a visual anchor to Main Street. It was about to be razed by a developer who had bought it for its bricks but was happy to offload the place.
Mr. Coughlin spent three years clearing and renovating all 10,000 square feet, working weeknights and Saturdays. Meanwhile, Ms. van Beuren had two babies and started a farmers' market. Opening a grocery seemed like the next logical step for someone interested in food and the sort of community that food can create.
''It was really dumb, in retrospect,'' she said. ''I had no retail experience. I had never worked a cash register. I'd been working as a freelance writer-slash-mother.''
But data from Mr. Howley supported her intuition that a specialty grocery, with seasonal local produce, could succeed. As he said, ''We lose a lot of revenue to Oxford. A lot of my work is trying to figure out how to get it back.''
Ms. van Beuren, who had no plans to include a kitchen and prepared foods among her offerings, now has both. The initials of her store stand for the Gandhi quote, ''Be the change you want to see in the world.''
Not everyone gets the shorthand, she said. ''Beans, tomatoes and corn'' was one resident's guess; another was ''better than country.'' In a nice piece of serendipity, Dixie Grimes, a talented chef who had been working at a high-end restaurant in Oxford and who showed up one day and asked if Ms. van Beuren needed a cook, has the quote on her key chain.
Last year, B.T.C. won a Mississippi Main Street award, ''for the best adaptive reuse of a building that has outlived its former use.'' And Ms. Grimes's food is packing the place. Her pear zucchini soup has been a blockbuster, Ms. van Beuren said. In a town whose residents eat chicken-fried steak three nights a week, that's no small feat.
Mr. Howley sees B.T.C. as a template for others to follow. He is collaborating with an architect for the Mississippi Development Authority trying to jumpstart Jackson, which, he said, ''has 300 downtown apartments but no grocery store. I told him to find a smart, young, hard-working crunchy Vandy grad like Alexe and set her free.''
''No other Mississippi town has a place like the B.T.C.,'' he added. ''That store has put us over the hump. For a few years, I was not quite sure if Water Valley would come back, but I am now. The store has literally brought a daily life to the center of town. It stays open when we have art openings. Both Coulter and I coordinated with Alexe -- she pushes our shows to her customers -- and people will shop groceries and do an art opening at the same time.''
On the last Friday in February, 200 people jammed into Yalo Studio for a reception. To be honest, it doesn't take much to jam the place. There was work by Chris Sullivan, a photographer who has collaged photographs of New Orleans po-boys wall murals, and also by Jake Fussell, Ms. Fussell's brother, whose collection of hair weaves she had framed. (Mr. Fussell is the guitarist for the blues musician the Rev. John Wilkins, whom Mr. Harvey manages and produces.)
Mr. Fussell doesn't wear hair weaves; he finds them. In their frames, they looked winsome and curious, like Victorian specimens or artwork by Kiki Smith, and they seemed to fascinate some longtime Water Valley residents at the show.
One such guest was M. B. (Snooky) Williams, who wore a fake ponytail attached to a baseball cap, clearly getting into the spirit of the event, Ms. Fussell reported.
Mr. Williams, 80, said later that he had lived in Water Valley for 57 years. He described himself as an avid cheerleader for Ms. Fussell and her sisters on Main Street, and an expert in the ecosystem of small-town businesses, having run a clothing store and an insurance agency through the ''Walmarting of America,'' as he put it.
''I think right now in Water Valley, it's the greatest opportunity since I moved here,'' he said with gusto. ''If I was younger, I'd be buying property. These young girls, they've got spunk, they're going to make it.''
He added: ''So I was at Coulter's art opening. She sold 15 of those framed hair pieces. This is unheard-of to me. My wife even bought one. These girls, they are jumping on the tide, they are adjusting, finding a niche, they're opening eyes. Even a month ago, if you had told me my wife would have bought a framed hair piece at an art gallery, I would have thought you were crazy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOMEBODIES: Center, from left, Megan Patton, Coulter Fussell, Erin Austen Abbott and Alexe van Beuren are part of a wave of new business owners in Water Valley, Miss. Clockwise from top left: Ms. Abbott's house
Ms. van Beuren's B.T.C. Old-Fashioned Grocery
her bedroom
in the grocery, a mural with the motto ''Be the change you want to see in the world''
Ms. Fussell's house, which is decorated with Southern folk art
Ms. Patton and Ms. Fussell's gallery, Yalo Studio.(D1)
WRECKED: When Kagan Coughlin and Alexe van Beuren bought this house for $6,000, nearly all of it was rotted, including the foundation and the floors. Mr. Coughlin harvested what he could and built kitchen cabinets, shelves and their bed from the floor joists. They painted most of the walls and the ceiling white, and pickled the new pine floor with watered-down silver Valspar paint.(D4)
GOOD FORTUNE: Four years ago, there were 18 empty stores on Main Street. Now there are only six. Erin Austen Abbot bought and renovated her house by herself, filling it with '50s vintage furniture. Then she met her husband, Sean Kirkpatrick, who moved in with nothing but a guitar and a framed map. The Eames rocker was a wedding gift from him.
PIONEERS: Coulter Fussell and Amos Harvey bought their house in 2004, overcoming Mr. Harvey's reluctance to live in a town where beer was prohibited until 2008. Their sons are Booker, left, and Amos Henry.
HEIRLOOMS: Megan Patton, then Megan Kingery, bought her house with no money down in 2007. Her husband, Matt, moved in last June. The guest-room quilt was made by her great-grandmother
the bed was his grandmother's
 the license plates belonged to her grandmother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT RAUSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAND & POWER TOOLS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RETAILERS (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



287 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A Prosecutor Becomes a Champion for the Elderly

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
MARIE-THERESE CONNOLLY is using the prosecutorial skill she honed fighting nursing home fraud to add dimensions to the public's awareness of the widespread problem of elder abuse, including highlighting the costs to society of financial, physical and psychological mistreatment of older adults.
''Elder abuse is ubiquitous,'' Ms. Connolly, 54, a former Justice Department prosecutor, said. ''But we are not connecting the dots and realizing that the economic costs are high. Few people realize the huge implications for Medicare, Medicaid and family programs.'' 
She has been working -- writing federal legislation, testifying and prosecuting cases -- for years, but a grant last fall from the MacArthur Foundation recognized her efforts in the area and gave her the financial freedom to reframe the issue on her own terms.
Despite the occasional highly publicized case like the one involving the actor Mickey Rooney, who told Congress he had been mistreated by relatives, or the conviction of the heiress Brooke Astor's son on charges of defrauding her and stealing millions of dollars from her, the biggest challenge is that aging is something that everyone wants to ignore, Ms. Connolly said.
''We need to talk about this,'' she said.
She decided to write a book, but not about the many examples of how older people are exploited or mistreated.
''The engine of the book is going to be the people on the ground who are doing amazing things to help older people who are suffering from all these different kinds of abuses,'' Ms. Connolly said of the book, which she said would be published in spring 2013. With no coordinated national approach, ''the social workers and others who are trying to help are forced to invent the wheel over and over,'' she said.
Protecting the elderly is not a top national concern, she said, although 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, and large numbers of baby boomers are in or approaching their 60s, a period when they become more vulnerable.
Ms. Connolly, an energetic mother of three, did not set out to become a champion of rights for the elderly. As a newly minted lawyer out of Northeastern University School of Law, an early assignment was prosecuting civil fraud cases at the Justice Department.
Several years later, an investigation by the Government Accountability Office, the Congressional watchdog agency, uncovered widespread nursing home abuses. That prompted the Justice Department to set up the Elder Justice and Nursing Home Initiative to, among other things, pursue fraud against older adults. She was named to lead it in 1999.
She left the post in 2007, becoming a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a Washington research organization, and founding the nonprofit group Life Long Justice to help detect abuse of the elderly and find solutions. In 2010, Congress passed the first federal legislation, the Elder Justice Act, which she helped write, to address such abuse and exploitation.
Despite the law and efforts to shed light on the problem, the toll on victims remains vast and grim, she said.
Just making sure that the people who come into contact with older adults, including doctors and social workers, are trained to distinguish between accidental bruises, which are common among older adults, and marks that are inflicted by someone else would be an important step, she said.
Ms. Connolly also wants people to understand the economic toll of abuse, noting that studies show that abused elderly people ''are more likely to be admitted to a nursing home, for example, and far more likely to suffer from increased mortality and morbidity.''
When financial, physical or other abuse means that an older person cannot live independently, taxpayers pick up the bill for costly acute, intensive or long-term care via Medicare or Medicaid, she said.
Financial exploitation alone costs victims $2.9 billion annually, according to a 2011 MetLife Mature Market Institute study. Ms. Connolly said that the actual cost of abuse could be much greater, but no comprehensive study had been done.
A major drawback to public awareness, she said, is the lack of research, especially in the areas of intervention and prevention. It is difficult to pinpoint the precise number of cases of mistreatment and abuse of older people, she said, because abuse takes many forms, can be hard to detect and can occur at home or in nursing homes and other institutions.
Citing surveys and studies over the last decade, Ms. Connolly estimated that several million older Americans suffered abuse each year. But she said, ''It's very hard to put a finger on the prevalence.''
To arrive at more precise figures, she is working with some other specialists on the elderly to research the various aspects of abuse and to find financing to support the effort.
Her no-strings $500,000 MacArthur award helps make up for the fact that she has not drawn a salary since she left her federal job -- something her family has taken in stride although her older two children are in college. Her husband, Daniel Kohrman, is a lawyer with the AARP Foundation and works on issues involving older adults as well.
But Ms. Connolly says she knows focusing public attention on abuse of the elderly is not going to be easy.
''Despite the tide of aging baby boomers, people are still far more aware of child abuse and domestic violence than they are of what happens to an older neighbor or relative,'' she said. ''Elder abuse is still a national blind spot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ADVOCATE: ''Elder abuse is ubiquitous,'' says Marie-Therese Connolly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE LAMBERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (92%); ELDER ABUSE (92%); ELDER LAW (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); WRITERS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



288 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; SpecialSections; Pg. 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: When Reaching for Returns, Mind the Risks

 BODY:
BY JOHN F. WASIK
WITH yields on savings instruments and Treasury bonds likely to remain rock bottom for the next two years or so, is it prudent to take on more risk to increase yield in your income portfolio?
Through diversification in nontraditional funds you can improve returns, but you should understand the additional risk you're taking.
Rarely has it made more sense to look beyond plain-vanilla bonds for income. According to research from Harris Private Bank, interest income as a percentage of personal disposable income has sunk below levels last seen 40 years ago. ''Despite the fact that roughly 7,000 Americans are reaching their 65th birthday every day, interest income as a component of personal income has never been lower,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris. ''Deriving income from a variety of sources is a promising approach.'' 
Yield-starved investors are not waiting for the Fed to ratchet up rates again. They have already been moving billions into emerging-market bonds and high-dividend stocks like real estate investment trusts, or REITs.
REITs are investment companies that own real estate and are traded as stocks on exchanges. They must pay out at least 90 percent of their taxable income to shareholders, which produces yields that are several points above Treasury securities. Last year, the FTSE NAREIT All-Equity REIT Index was up 8.28 percent, nearly four times the gain of the S.& P. 500 stock index. About 56 percent of the total return from equity REITs in the United States came from dividends from 1990 to 2010, compared with 23 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Because of their high payouts, REITs have gained increasing favor with income investors. While they can move in the opposite direction of the stock market, they often move in the same direction, as they did in 2008. So they carry significant market risk. If you want to avoid the struggling property market in the United States, two worthy considerations that sample REITs across the globe are the SPDR DJ Wilshire International REIT exchange-traded fund (RWX) and the iShares S&P Developed World ex-U.S. Property Index (WPS).
It's also worthwhile to look beyond developed countries for income. With debt woes beleaguering the United States and the euro zone, emerging markets have garnered more attention.
''Many emerging economies are facing fewer headwinds than the more developed economies,'' said Richard K. Fullmer, an asset allocation strategist with the mutual fund company T. Rowe Price. ''Emerging market bonds are attractive relative to developed markets.''
The Powershares Emerging Markets Sovereign Debt Portfolio (PCY) and the Market Vectors Emerging Markets Local Currency Bond ETF (EMLC) sample undeveloped debt markets. Unlike domestic bond funds, emerging markets funds carry currency and political risk, although those risks may be muted in a diversified portfolio.
Another category traditionally thought to be verboten by conservative income investors is high-yield or ''junk'' bonds. These corporate issues, given low credit ratings because they have a higher risk of default, have gained renewed attention in the last year. The reason is simple: As the economy improves, default risks on these bonds generally decline. For the increased risk you are taking, you are offered yields several points higher than blue-chip corporate bonds.
Douglas Wolfe, chief investment officer of Saddle River Capital Management, said he placed his clients in high-yield bond E.T.F.'s such as the PIMCO 0-5 year High Yield Corporate Bond Index Fund (HYS) and the iShares iBoxx High-Yield Corporate Bond Fund (HYG).
Mr. Wolfe also recommends another asset often overlooked by yield-hungry investors: master limited partnerships contained within E.T.F.'s. Partnerships own physical assets such as pipelines and toll roads that generate income streams for investors. Although buying individual partnerships can be risky and expensive, when several of them are managed within a portfolio, diversification lowers the volatility. Mr. Wolfe favors the Alerian Master Limited Partnership E.T.F. (AMLP).
You will find that balancing the different kinds of risk can be daunting when assembling a portfolio of nontraditional income vehicles. They are all vulnerable to interest-rate risk and inflation risk to some degree. Market analysts have been warning for years that high inflation may return because of all the sovereign debt being sold.
''Interest rates are extremely low now,'' adds Mr. Fullmer. ''At some point, rates will go up and prices will fall. Investors should be concerned about inflation.''
The best way to manage bond market risk? As with holding stocks, you need to look at total portfolio risk and the potential losses associated with what you own. What happens to your holdings if interest rates jump one percentage point, also known as ''duration'' risk?
If you cannot directly measure your overall risk -- or tax -- exposure, you need to consult a certified financial planner, chartered financial analyst or registered investment adviser. These fiduciary advisers should be able to gauge how much risk you are taking and whether it is appropriate for you given your age, lifestyle and personal preferences.
The best thing about holding bonds is their steady income, but there is never a free lunch if you want more yield. It is best to educate yourself now to avoid nasty surprises later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); BONDS (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); COUNTRY RISK (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); EURO ZONE (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



289 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Still a Reach For Women In Mexico

BYLINE: By KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY

 BODY:
CUERNAVACA, Mexico -- The small-town party bosses told her to forget it. Her husband, too, scoffed at the idea as preposterous. And deep down, Maria Teresa Dominguez had her own doubts.
Could she run for mayor of Cuernavaca, the capital of Morelos State and a haven for Mexico City weekenders? Was there any chance she, a woman in a city whose institutions have long been dominated by men, could win? Hadn't her mother always told her that she belonged at home?
''There were many sleepless nights,'' said Ms. Dominguez, 54, a university professor and part of a vanguard of women seeking to run for mayor in a country where machismo, corruption and an insider political culture have kept them out. ''I always believed I could do more. I can construct, transform this society.'' 
Even as many Mexicans celebrate a milestone in Josefina Vazquez Mota, the first woman to be selected as the presidential candidate of a major Mexican political party, the number of women in office at the most basic level of government -- in the small cities and villages that are a backbone of democracy -- still falls notably short.
Only in 6 percent of the country's cities and towns do women serve as municipal president, as mayors are called in Mexico. By contrast, women hold one in four seats in Congress, for which 40 percent of a party's candidates must be women.
Political analysts who work with aspiring female politicians in Mexico say that the democratic process at the municipal level remains mired by a conservative and patriarchal culture, vague and unenforced gender quotas, and a lack of transparency and accountability.
Mayors are the most visible of local politicians -- a double-edged sword. Their power makes them prime targets for criminals (according to the monthly magazine Mayors of Mexico, more than 30 mayors have been killed or have disappeared since 2008), but they are also highly influential allies for state leaders.
''They have the closest link to the citizens,'' said Yunuel Cruz, head of the department of political participation at the Mexican National Women's Institute, the government agency in charge of gender equality. ''It is the most forgotten space of our democracy.''
Now, a band of national and international experts on politics and campaigns is trying to kick open the doors of city halls to more women like Ms. Dominguez, who is participating in a training program designed to increase the number of women campaigning for local offices. The National Democratic Institute, an organization affiliated with the Democratic Party in the United States, has organized a ''Future Women Mayors'' academy here that teaches participants the basics of politics, how to devise a campaign strategy and what to do once they get elected.
The organizers said more female mayors would likely mean more money put toward education and health programs, as well as a deepening public emphasis on quality of life. For Julian Quibell, director of N.D.I. Mexico, this would increase and diversify proposed solutions to some of the country's growing problems, including violence and unemployment.
''We have to break with the idea that women are from Venus and men are from Mars, because more than anything,'' he said, ''you are excluding a human perspective.''
When Mariana Lopez Vieyra, 25, finished giving a convincing mock campaign speech during one of the sessions -- with an air reminiscent of an eager and subtly nervous student in an acting class -- the group of 30 women engaged in a lengthy and lively discussion. Which parts were worthy of emulating? How could the message have been delivered more clearly? Many of them took meticulous notes during the exchange.
The academy in Morelos, one of five Mexican states that do not have any female mayors, is the second of its kind organized by the institute. Mr. Quibell led the six-month inaugural program in the nearby state of Michoacan last year. Of the 52 participants, 15 ran for office after completing the course. Rosa Hilda Abascal, 55, who has served as a trustee and a comptroller in her town, is one of the three elected mayors. She called it a bittersweet victory after growing hostility with her husband pushed her close to giving up her political dreams.
''If a lime was missing from the table, he would say, 'It's because you're over there,' '' said Ms. Abascal, the first female mayor in Zamora, her hometown. She said he finally came to his senses and threw his support behind her, though it took years of convincing.
Ms. Dominguez knows all too well that a skeptical husband can be a major political liability.
''My advantage,'' she said, with a sheepish smile, ''is that I've been a widow for five years.''
Today, she walks around Cuernavaca's streets, markets and malls, shaking as many hands as possible and taking note of what people tell her is lacking in the city. Ms. Dominguez, of the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution, is squaring off against three opponents within her party, all men.
They, and her party, may prove to be as resistant to her political aspirations as her late husband. Gladis Lopez, president of Mayors of Mexico, says that political parties often set women up for failure by giving them more visibility in strategically chosen places.
''Where they don't have possibilities of winning,'' she said, ''there is more generosity to support them.''
If Ms. Vazquez Mota's presidential nomination is to help close the gender gap in Mexican politics, the country's parties will have to not only enforce gender quotas, but also provide women with special training, Ms. Lopez warns. It is unreasonable, she says, that parties expect to move them from what she called ''the casserole to the microphone'' without any real support.
For Ms. Vieyra, whose mock speech elicited thunderous applause from her classmates, it is only a matter of time before women's participation in politics becomes fully acceptable.
''It's like a social cliche,'' she said, ''like getting a tattoo a few years ago,'' mentioning a tattooed colleague within the party and explaining that for the younger members, it is not an issue at all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mariana Lopez Vieyra, center, with classmates in a politics-oriented program in Cuernavaca. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAPS: A woman is one of the mayoral candidates in Cuernavaca. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); GENDER EQUALITY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



290 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: A Life's Profusion Of Blooms

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
Hillsborough, N.C.
WINTER is Nancy Goodwin's favorite season at Montrose, her historic garden in this hilly old town north of Chapel Hill. ''I had aconites for Christmas,'' she said recently, crouching over those little yellow buttercups with the ferny foliage that usually don't bloom in New York City until early March. ''I've never had aconites for Christmas.''
Her first hardy cyclamens bloomed in early December, looking like so many white, pink and deep carmine butterflies hovering over heart-shaped, deep-green leaves. The first wave of giant snowdrops had already blanketed the woods by Thanksgiving. (Mine are blooming now in Maryland.)
I had popped down to Montrose in late January to revel in the tens of thousands of bulbs that have been blooming so early and for so long here, on the 61-acre estate that Ms. Goodwin and her husband, Craufurd, who teaches economics at Duke University, have tended for 35 years. 
Now on the National Register of Historic Places, as well as a preservation project of the Garden Conservancy, Montrose was once home to William Alexander Graham, a North Carolina senator, governor and secretary of the Navy, and his wife, Susan, who laid out the first gardens in 1842.
''The essence of winter gardening is getting down on your knees, because everything is small,'' said Ms. Goodwin, 76, doing just that beneath a giant metasequoia that one of the Grahams, who stayed for three generations, had planted.
''Look at these cyclamen coums -- every shade from white to magenta,'' she said, touching a velvety carmine petal. ''They're spread by ants, who eat the sugary substance around the seeds and leave them wherever.''
As limber as a teenager, Ms. Goodwin hopped about beneath the tree, pointing out striking differences in color and leaf pattern of these hardy bulbs, which she grows, incredibly, from seed. If the ants don't get there first, that is.
''The seed capsule is usually ripe at the end of May, and the ants are there within two minutes,'' she said. ''I don't get too upset about it'' -- because, after all, these ants have carried the seeds to the woods, where they flower like mad -- ''but I still want seeds of my most special plants.''
Ms. Goodwin collects the seeds of her favorites (marked by a bright piece of wool when they're flowering, so she doesn't forget) and plants them in little pots that spend six weeks or so in a dark, cold space until they germinate. Then she moves them into her greenhouse, where they grow for a year before going into the ground, marked by a white label, with their names and dates.
Most people think of cyclamens as those hothouse potted plants sold alongside poinsettias at Christmas, and so did Ms. Goodwin, until a trip to Surrey, England, with her husband years ago.
''We were having tea, and I looked down at this little flower blooming by a big rock and said, 'What in the world is that?' I learned it was hardy and would grow right here, in the grass, so I bought a packet of seeds.''
Growing bulbs from seed has long been a habit with Ms. Goodwin, a gardener since childhood, because many of the bulbs and rare plants she wanted -- not just cyclamens, but winter irises, crocuses, hellebores and many others -- were hard to find on the market. And those that were available were often illegally collected in the wild.
As her garden developed, she started collecting seeds from her own flowers: a snowdrop with yellow rather than green markings; a yellow-flowered hellebore she crossed herself by gently rubbing the pollen of two different forms together; a crocus with elegant purple stripes. And as her collection expanded, she started a small mail-order business, Montrose Nursery, in 1984, thinking that she might make enough money to stop spending long hours indoors giving piano lessons. But paradoxically, as the business gained a reputation for offering the finest rare plants in the country, she found she had less time to garden.
''There was only one solution,'' she writes in her 2005 book, ''Montrose: Life in a Garden.'' ''I closed the nursery 10 years after opening it, put on my kneepads and went back to the garden.''
ON a recent afternoon, as the mercury climbed to 60 degrees, the tantalizing scent of a flowering apricot (Prunus mume) led us around the rumpled boxwood of the 19th-century house to the woods, where rivers of snowdrops (Galanthus nivalis) bloomed beneath the bare branches of tall poplars and gray beech trees.
''I resent the leaves coming,'' Ms. Goodwin said. Without them, she added, ''you can see all the way down, across the flood plain.''
The wooded hill, which spreads out over 20 acres, was terraced back in the 1930s for erosion control. We could see a quiet pond shimmering through the trees.
Hellebores were flowering in informal drifts of white, green and deep purple. Now and then, Ms. Goodwin would lean over and lift one of the down-facing flowers to show off dark burgundy freckles on pure white petals or crimson edging around soft pink petals (a picotee type).
A few primroses heralded the colors to come, their bright blues and yellows winking like Easter eggs on the forest floor. In another month, the bloodroot would open its ivory white flowers.
''To me, the woods are the soul of the garden,'' she said. ''It has its own life.''
Ms. Goodwin spends all day out here, from morning to sunset, working with her part-time gardeners or planting seedlings by the hundreds herself.
In addition to these sweeps of bulbs, they have put in little groves of sabal palms, to catch the breeze, and magnolias, whose dark evergreen leaves are handsome in the bare woods, and drifts of sarcococca, or sweetshrub, whose fragrant white flowers would soon be blooming.
''It never gets tedious,'' she said. ''I love it. And at the end of the day, I feel so good -- tired but good. And I sleep like a baby.''
Winter is the most comfortable time to work here, in layers and a hat when it's 30 degrees (or just a sweater when it's 60, as it has been many days this year). These sturdy gardeners pull out invasive trees and vines, cut up dead limbs with handsaws and move the brush into enormous piles for Mr. Goodwin to haul off with his tractor.
''He's the mower,'' said Ms. Goodwin, who prunes the limbs of her flowering apricot trees high enough for him to drive beneath them. ''You have to be kind to your mower.''
Mr. Goodwin, who is renowned for his graduate seminars on the Bloomsbury Group -- paintings by Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant and tiles from Virginia Woolf's garden table are tucked about the house -- strolled into the garden at sunset.
''Poor soul, she's had to see every single plant,'' he said, referring to a visitor.
But it wasn't painful. I didn't have to remember the Latin names written on every label in the woods. (''It looks like a mouse cemetery,'' Ms. Goodwin had said apologetically, showing me 100 cyclamen seedlings that wouldn't bloom for another year.) I had spent the day seeing, breathing and touching a living work of art.
Montrose is open on certain days in May and September, when plants from the garden are also sold. For information, you may e-mail Nancy Goodwin at montrosegdn@embarqmail.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DARK AND DEEP: Flowering snowdrops, above, line many paths that run through the wooded areas of Nancy Goodwin and her husband's North Carolina property. ''To me, the woods are the soul of the garden,'' she said. Clockwise from near right, a winter-blooming iris, Ms. Goodwin (who made a hellebore cross by gently rubbing together pollen from two forms), yellow aconites, lavender tommies (Crocus tommasinianus), yellow hellebores and a flowering apricot tree.
 HISTORY: The Goodwins' house, above left, dates to the 1890s and the gardens there to 1842. Above right, the lath house, for summer shade. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GARDENING (78%); THANKSGIVING (73%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); NAVIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



291 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Among Online Entrepreneurs, Subscriptions Are All the Rage

BYLINE: By DARREN DAHL

 BODY:
After Alex Zhardanovsky sold his online ad company, AzoogleAds, he went looking for a new business concept. His search took him from skin care to weight-loss products to prize giveaways. The answer that finally came to him -- pet food -- was inspired by sheer inconvenience. ''If you're a dog owner like I am, you go out and buy food every three or four weeks,'' Mr. Zhardanovsky said. ''But you usually don't realize you need it until you're out.''
Mr. Zhardanovsky, 34, was well aware that an online pet supply store, Pets.com, had been one of the more celebrated flameouts of the dot-com bubble. But he had an idea to build the business by taking a different approach to sales. While selling online ads, he had seen other companies, like Netflix, persuade consumers to lock in monthly fees for repeat orders. Those companies, he believed, were generally more successful and thus bought more of his ads. For his new business, Mr. Zhardanovsky's plan was to sell pet food on a subscription basis. He figured that other pet owners had experienced the same frustrations keeping the food stocked and might be willing to sign up for a monthly delivery service as well. ''Dogs never stop needing to eat,'' he said. 
To test his theory, Mr. Zhardanovsky and his co-founder, Joe Speiser, set up a Web page in 2009 with a form that asked customers if they would be interested in signing up for regular deliveries. They then placed a few ads online and waited to see what happened. ''We had an overwhelmingly positive response from our customers who wanted to sign up for the service,'' said Mr. Zhardanovsky, who lives in New York City and who proceeded to introduce PetFlow in 2010.
Customers who sign up to receive regular deliveries of pet food can determine how much they get and how often it comes through PetFlow's Web site. They can also suspend or change delivery locations when they move or go on vacation. So far, Mr. Zhardanovsky said, only about 1.5 percent of his subscription customers drop the service each month -- and many do so only because the pet has died.
In its first month, July 2010, the company shipped about 60 orders; by January of this year, that number had leapt to 27,000. In 2011, PetFlow exceeded $13 million in revenue -- with 60 percent of its sales coming on a subscription basis -- and it projects revenue will exceed $30 million this year. ''I've come to appreciate,'' Mr. Zhardanovsky said, ''that subscription models are, in so many ways, the holy grail of business.''
They are far from a new concept. Consider magazines, for example, or the record clubs that employed so-called negative-option billing (the record was delivered and you were charged unless you told the club you did not want it). But lately, more businesses have come up with creative ways to use the Internet to sell products that have not traditionally been sold by subscription. H.Bloom, which operates in New York, Chicago and Washington, sells flowers by subscription; Trunk Club sells clothing by subscription (if you do not like what the store sends, you can return it). Amazon encourages customers to place standing orders for products like power bars or paper towels.
''C.E.O.'s are beginning to appreciate the value of recurring revenue in a way I've never seen before,'' said Jim Schleckser, who heads the CEO Project, an executive coaching firm based in Washington. ''I think that the software industry adopted it, which caught people's attention. Now you're seeing companies in just about every kind of industry embracing it.''
It is not hard to see the appeal of recurring revenue, but some of the benefits may be less obvious. ''This is the best business model you can ever have because we can place inventory purchases against future sales,'' Mr. Zhardanovsky said. ''I will be shipping out 24,000 products next month whether I land a new customer or not. I already know how many bags of Blue Buffalo brand chicken-flavored dog food I have sold in the next 60 days.''
That predictability allows PetFlow to maintain lower inventory levels and to negotiate better deals with suppliers, who appreciate that PetFlow does not discount its sales and that its customers are much less likely than others to switch to a different brand. ''We have 60 percent of our customers telling us that they used to shop at Petco or PetSmart,'' Mr. Zhardanovsky said. ''Which means we're taking a lot of people out of the traditional retail channel.''
Subscription sales also mean that the money a business spends to bring customers to its site through, say, Google AdWords, can be amortized over the months or years that they remain a customer, said Brian Lee, who helped found ShoeDazzle (along with Kim Kardashian). ShoeDazzle sells shoes on a subscription basis.
''A subscription model allows you to establish long-term relationships with customers as opposed to selling them one pair of shoes and hoping they come back,'' said Mr. Lee, who also was a founder of LegalZoom. It was his experience at LegalZoom, a legal-document business based on single transactions, that prompted Mr. Lee to look for recurring revenue: ''I wanted to start a business where you didn't have to worry as much about whether the customer would come back.'' The idea of using a subscription model to sell shoes came to him, he said, after he realized how many shoes his wife was buying on a regular basis.
Subscription models and recurring revenue also tend to impress investors -- a lesson learned by Jessica Kim, founder and chief executive of BabbaCo, which is based in Chicago and sells children's activity products. When Ms. Kim started her business in 2008, she sold wholesale products like car-seat covers and inflatable play mats. But after she was accepted into Excelerate Labs, a business-incubator program in Chicago, she got some advice from Paul Lee, one of the program's mentors. ''He told me that he noticed we had such a strong connection with our community of customers and suggested a subscription-based model,'' Ms. Kim said. ''That's when it hit me that subscription models are a great way to build lifetime relationships with our customers.''
Ms. Kim came up with the idea of sending out a monthly ''BabbaBox,'' a box of projects, activities and books that are tied to a theme and that parents can complete with their children. The change to a subscription model had an immediate impact; Ms. Kim's business grew more in the five months after she made the switch than it had in the previous three years combined. Just as important, Ms. Kim landed several prominent investors as a result of the change, including Mr. Lee, who is a partner in Lightbank, which was started by Eric Lefkofsky, a co-founder of Groupon.
Given the experiences of companies like PetFlow, ShoeDazzle and BabbaCo, it is tempting to wonder why not every company is trying a subscription model. And, in fact, Brian Lee, the founder of ShoeDazzle, said he frequently heard pitches from entrepreneurs who wanted to create the ShoeDazzle of wine or underwear or some other product. ''I think subscription models work best in two instances,'' he said. ''Where the product is a necessity or when it's an absolute passion. It stops making sense when you try to do something like a tree-of-the-month club, which doesn't fit either of those categories.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Zhardanovsky, co-founder of PetFlow, with customers' photos. He sells pet food online on a subscription basis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); PETS (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PET FOODS (90%); DOGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); DIETING (78%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (54%)

COMPANY: CONNEXUS CORP (91%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (57%); NETFLIX INC (56%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



292 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Increased Hiring in February Suggests Labor Recovery

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Companies in the United States increased their hiring in February, shoring up expectations that the labor market's recovery has moved into a higher gear.
Separate data on Wednesday showed wages grew more quickly at the end of last year than originally estimated, good news for consumers, but a potential inflation problem for the Federal Reserve. 
The private sector added 216,000 jobs last month, according to the ADP National Employment Report, topping economists' expectations for a gain of 208,000. The ADP figures come ahead of the government's more comprehensive monthly labor market report on Friday, which includes both public and private sector employment.
''After two years of expansion without much gain in employment, we're finally hitting the point where firms need to begin adding people in order to meet increased orders,'' Steve Blitz, senior economist at ITG Investment Research in New York, said. ''There are still risks ahead, but if you could just stop the clock right where we are now, you've got a recovery that is gathering some momentum; it appears to be self-reinforcing.''
Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan, noted that in the month of February in recent years, the difference between the two reports has been smaller and missed only by 2,000 in 2010 and 5,000 in 2011.
ADP's January figures were revised up to an increase of 173,000 jobs from 170,000. The report is jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers.
Unit labor costs, which the Federal Reserve watches closely for signs of inflation, rose at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the Labor Department said, revised sharply up from the 1.2 percent pace it reported last month. Third-quarter wage growth was raised to a 3.9 percent pace from the previously reported drop of 2.1 percent.
Hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, rose at a 2.8 percent rate in the fourth quarter, revised from the previously reported increase of 1.0 percent. It was the largest gain since the second quarter of 2010.
The Labor Department revised up its reading on nonfarm productivity growth to a 0.9 percent pace in the fourth quarter from 0.7 percent.
Data later on Wednesday showed consumer credit expanded sharply in January for the fifth consecutive month as Americans borrowed money to buy cars and go to school.
Separate reports on the housing market suggested the sector was continuing to scrape along the bottom.
Home prices fell 1.0 percent in January, the sixth straight month of declines as sales of distressed properties took a toll, the data analysis firm CoreLogic said.
Compared with January of last year, prices were down 3.1 percent. But excluding distressed sales, prices rose 0.7 percent in January and were off just 0.9 percent on a yearly basis.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve)
 U.S. Productivity: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 2005 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); HOME PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); CORELOGIC INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); CLGX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



293 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Costa Rica

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A FIVE-BEDROOM MOUNTAINSIDE ESTATE OVERLOOKING SAN JOSE
$1.69 MILLION
This mountainside estate overlooks the city of San Jose and the volcanoes beyond. The house covers 8,100 square feet over two stories; it was built of local volcanic stone in 1995 and refurbished in 2009. Floors throughout are of polished concrete, tinted red in the kitchen. Ceilings are of unpainted Guanacaste wood, illuminated with recessed lights. Exposed volcanic-stone walls in the kitchen have built-in alcoves for the stainless steel appliances and hardwood shelves. A row of square windows runs along the wall above the kitchen sink, which has hands-free faucets by Philippe Starck. In the dining room, one wall is lined with built-in shelves. A glass inset in the dining table offers a view to the wine cellar below. An extensive wine collection and all furnishings are included in the sale. From the dining room, a few short steps descend to the living room where windows on three sides look out onto the lush Central Valley and Irazu, an active volcano. 
From the living area, an open-air footbridge leads to the master suite, which has a studio and a walk-in closet as well as an en-suite bath. The bed is on a raised platform; the room has an exposed volcanic-stone wall and a sloping ceiling. In the bathroom, stone-faced steps lead to the spa tub. A wooden vanity is set into a stone wall. An open-air shower off the bathroom is shrouded in privacy by tropical forest.
The 1.73-acre property planted with orange and banana trees also has four separate guest suites. One is beneath the living room and one beneath the master suite; the other two are in guest cottages down the hill from the house.
An outdoor entertainment area next to the pool has a fan-shaped roof, a sound system, and a series of multicolored lights. The estate also has a security gate and a putting green.
The closest restaurants and shops are a 15-minute drive down the mountain in downtown San Jose. Jaco Beach is an hour and 15 minutes away, and the San Jose airport is a 40-minute drive.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The property market near Costa Rica's beaches boomed about a decade ago, attracting many American and European retirees, said Kristin Wilson, an independent real estate broker and relocation consultant based in Escazu, a suburb of San Jose. The market slowed in 2006 and 2007, but it didn't bottom out until the economic crisis in the United States intensified in 2008, Ms. Wilson said, recalling that near the beaches, ''sales completely stopped.''
Prices in the Central Valley have not fluctuated as much as those near the coast. ''Prices were never inflated here,'' Ms. Wilson said. In fact, foreign buyers are increasingly drawn to the Central Valley and the surrounding mountains. ''I'm seeing a trend of people keeping their home at the beach and buying a second home inland,'' She added. ''Living at the beach can be tiring. It can be hot. It can be dusty. It can be rainy.''
Attractive homes in the San Jose area usually cost $1,200 to $1,500 per square meter ($111 to $139 per square foot), while luxury homes in the city's more affluent suburbs can cost at least $2,000 per square meter. The home profiled here is priced at $2,253 per square meter.
Beach properties vary in price depending on location. ''Smart buyers can find beautiful homes near the beach in the $250,000-to-$300,000 range,'' said Karen Ebanks, sales manager for the San Jose firm Karen Real Estate, which has this listing. Condominiums in the beachfront community of Vista Las Palmas cost $600,000 to $800,000, Ms. Wilson said. But there are more modest homes, too. ''There's a lot of inventory available at the beach,'' she added.
WHO BUYS IN COSTA RICA
Most of Costa Rica's foreign buyers are North American and West European, said Jeff Cane of Karen Real Estate, the listing agent for this property. Canadians currently seem particularly interested in buying in Costa Rica. Although Americans visit frequently, they tend to rent rather than buy, most likely because of skittishness about the economy. Mr. Cane has also seen significant interest among Italian, Belgian and French visitors.
BUYING BASICS
Closing costs are fairly low, amounting to about 3.59 percent of the purchase price, Ms. Wilson said. This figure includes legal fees of 1.59 percent, a 0.5 percent municipal stamp duty, and a transfer tax of 1.5 percent.
Transaction fees are lower on properties owned by a corporation, because there are tax advantages for the buyer when the property changes hands. ''It's very common for people to own cars and properties in a corporation because it makes selling them easier,'' Ms. Wilson said. The property profiled here is an example of this trend. The buyer will acquire the corporation along with the property, and will not have to pay the 1.5 percent transfer tax.
Agent commissions are usually paid by the seller, and vary depending on the region, Ms. Wilson said. Most foreign buyers buy without financing. ''It's very difficult for foreign buyers to get financing in Costa Rica,'' she said. ''The banks are very risk-averse here.''
Real estate is almost always priced in dollars, according to Mr. Cane.
WEB SITES
San Jose official site: msj.go.cr
Costa Rica tourism: tourism.co.cr
Central bank of Costa Rica: bccr.fi.cr
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
Spanish; colones (1 colon=$0.002)
TAXES AND FEES
Property taxes are currently about $120 a year, but a new luxury tax will be based on the size of the property and the kind of building on it. Under the new rules to be enforced soon, Mr. Cane said, taxes for this house will be about $2,000 a year.
CONTACT
Jeff Cane, Karen Real Estate, 1-800-385-1092; karenrealestate.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); RELOCATIONS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); BEACHES (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (91%) COSTA RICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



294 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Marketers Promoting a Granola Bar Hit the Trails in National Parks

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
NATURE VALLEY, the granola bar brand introduced by General Mills in 1975, is telling consumers to take a hike, but in a good way.
Inspired by Google Street View, which uses images from a 360-degree camera to provide pedestrian-level views of cities worldwide, the company is introducing a Web site called Nature Valley Trail View. The site features 58 hiking trails totaling more than 300 miles in the Grand Canyon, Great Smoky Mountains and Yellowstone National Parks.
On the site, which was introduced Wednesday, users will zoom in on maps of parks to panoramically view individual trails. As with the street version, clicking directional arrows approximates walking forward or backward and gazing in any direction. With just one click, an ''autoplay'' function replicates hiking -- minus the bird songs and blisters. 
Absent from the site is any explicit pitch for granola bars. The only on-screen acknowledgment is a small Nature Valley logo in a corner of the screen, similar to cable network logos that appear during programming.
''It's not necessarily about getting someone to go out today and buy a Nature Valley granola bar,'' Scott Baldwin, senior marketing manager for Nature Valley, said of the project. ''Supporting lifestyle causes that your customers care about is what's going to keep them loyal to you, and when they have a choice, maybe they'll choose you.''
The effort is part of a broader partnership between the brand and the National Parks Conservation Association, an independent, nonprofit group that supports the national parks. Through promotions in 2010 and 2011, General Mills donated more than $820,000 to the group.
The project was conceived by McCann Erickson Worldwide, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, with assistance from two digital agencies, InTheMO Interactive and Your Majesty. Editors from Backpacker magazine led the hikes.
The estimated cost for the first phase of the project, which the brand plans to broaden with more trails from more national parks, is nearly $1 million.
With no immediate plans to trumpet the site either in advertising or on packaging, the brand is instead focusing on public relations efforts (by Cone Communications in Boston) and promoting it through social networks like Facebook, where it has more than 720,000 followers. It also plans to showcase the site on Sunday at the South by Southwest Interactive Conference and Festival in Austin, Tex.
Nature Valley spent $54.1 million on advertising in 2010, up from $38.3 million in 2009, and $36.1 million in the first nine months of 2011, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
Among nutrition and energy bars, granola bars are the most popular, with 50 percent of Americans partaking, a greater proportion than for those who eat cereal bars or breakfast bars (45 percent), energy or protein bars (20 percent), or diet bars (11 percent), according to Mintel, a market research firm.
Consumption grew as the economy declined. Revenue for granola bars grew 4 percent, to $1.2 billion, for the 52 weeks that ended Jan. 22, according to the SymphonyIRI Group, whose totals do not include Walmart.
Nature Valley increased its market share by 3.9 points over the last year, and now commands a 41.6 percent share of the market, followed by Quaker granola bars, with 23.1 percent.
As Nature Valley revenue climbed over the last year, so did its marketers.
Before hitting the trails last summer, Mat Bisher and Jason Schmall of McCann Erickson, who served as co-creative directors on the project, began to train physically. In videos for a blog they kept about the project, they make light of being in less-than-optimal shape.
''If we knew marketing was going to evolve to a place where we would have to physically train for a marketing idea that we had come up with,'' Mr. Bisher said in a recent interview, ''then we might have gotten out of the business.''
Technical challenges abounded. While Google Street View cameras typically are mounted atop cars, the technical team for Nature Valley Trail View rigged the camera on a metal frame on a backpack. The camera hovered in a stabilizing cradle over the head of a hiker, his backpack burdened with more than 40 pounds of equipment.
The GPS signal required to situate each photograph faltered on some remote trails, requiring the group to circle back and repeat segments.
By the time the last trail had been hiked, Mr. Bisher had consumed plenty of Gatorade, but his thirst for the great outdoors persisted. ''It sounds cheesy, but the whole experience made us want to get out more and experience the parks more -- which tells us that we've really done our job,'' Mr. Bisher said.
Theresa Pierno, executive vice president of the National Parks Conservation Association, said the project reminded her of what first enthralled her about faraway national parks when she was growing up in New Jersey: seeing spouting geysers and mountain vistas on her View-Master, the device for viewing 3-D images.
''It really is today's View-Master,'' Ms. Pierno said of Nature Valley Trail View. ''We think that this is fabulous, and that it is hopefully going to help create stewards and advocates for national parks in the future.''
Andy Smith, co-author (with Jennifer Aaker) of ''The Dragonfly Effect: Quick, Effective and Powerful Ways to Use Social Media to Drive Social Change,'' lauded the effort for presenting consumers with something beyond their granola bars to sink their teeth into.
''We love to shop and we love to buy, but we hate to feel sold to,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Brand loyalty is lost today, so you try to carve out a position where your connection to your customers is more based on enduring values and shared beliefs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A trail on Mount Washburn at Yellowstone National Park, as seen on Nature Valley Trail View, a Web site.
 The creators of Nature Valley Trail View used a camera positioned above a hiker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAT BISHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); HIKING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); MARKETING PLAN (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BRANDING (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BIRDS (68%); NUTRITION (62%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); GENERAL MILLS INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (83%); GIS (NYSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (66%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



295 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: A Positive Jobs Report Stops a Losing Streak

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks broke a three-day losing streak on Wednesday, recovering some recent losses after a report showed the private sector added more jobs than expected last month.
After suffering their worst decline in three months on Tuesday, stocks received an early lift after the payroll processor ADP said private employers picked up the pace of hiring in February. 
Banking stocks, Tuesday's big losers, were the strongest sector on Wednesday. The KBW bank index advanced 1.9 percent. Morgan Stanley gained 3.2 percent to $17.88 after a 5.3 percent drop in the previous session.
''Earlier in the week, portfolio managers, advisers and institutional money managers were looking for some sort of pullback just because it's good to buy on the dip, and we've had such a nice run,'' Mark Martiak, senior wealth strategist at Premier Financial Advisors in New York, said.
''The right part of the economic good news, good data story was the private sector adding 216,000 jobs,'' he said.
The news came after caution rose among many in the financial markets last week after the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, had given no clear indication that he planned to spur faster growth by pushing for another round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing.
Improving economic figures have helped push the Standard & Poor's 500 up more than 20 percent from its low close in October.
Investors continued to look for signs of progress in negotiations between Greece and its private creditors over a substantial write-down in Greek bonds.
Tuesday's tumble was prompted by renewed concerns about Greece and the outlook for the global economy. It was one of the worst performances since stocks began rallying last fall and the third straight decline for the S.& P. 500.
Six Greek pension funds are still holding out against joining the deal while eight have agreed to take part.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 78.18 points, or 0.61 percent, to 12,837.33 at the close. The S.& P. 500-stock index climbed 9.27 points, or 0.69 percent, to 1,352.63. The Nasdaq composite index added 25.37 points, or 0.87 percent, to 2,935.69.
The PHLX housing sector index, which tracks 20 companies that work in the construction industry, advanced 2.7 percent, with the home builder Hovnanian Enterprises up 2.5 percent at $2.46 after posting quarterly results.
Apple shares were volatile as the company introduced the latest version of its iPad, which has two-thirds of the growing tablet market, but closed with a gain of 0.08 percent at $530.69.
Shares of Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold fell 1.1 percent to $38.99 and the Newmont Mining Corporation slipped 0.9 percent to $56.68 after Indonesia announced new rules to take more profits from vast mineral resources by limiting foreign ownership of mines.
Investors were also watching oil prices after France voiced skepticism that a planned revival of talks between six world powers and Iran over its nuclear program would succeed.
The April crude oil contract in New York rose $1.46 to $106.16 a barrel.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 7/32, to 100 8/32, and the yield rose to 1.97 percent from 1.95 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); BONDS (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); MINES & MINING (60%)

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (60%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (51%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%)

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (60%); FCX (NYSE) (60%); MS (NYSE) (57%); HOV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (60%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (60%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (60%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (60%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (60%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (60%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (60%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (60%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (60%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (60%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



296 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: The Importance Of a Road Map For Your Finances

BYLINE: By JOHN F. WASIK. 
John F. Wasik, co-author of ''iMoney,'' is a Reuters columnist.

 BODY:
A USEFUL way to avoid potholes on the road to retirement is an investment policy statement -- an interactive atlas that will help you get where you're going and show you what to expect along the way.
Financial planners and registered investment advisers have been using them for years with their clients; brokers less so. While the statement is time-consuming to assemble and maintain, it will serve you well, particularly in volatile markets. 
The basic investment policy statement puts on paper answers to your questions about objectives, return expectations, risk tolerance, time horizon and portfolio allocation. Should you weight your holdings more toward bonds or stocks? Do you want to save for college and a second home in addition to retirement?
Why is it important to write all of this down? The statement will help keep you focused on your goals. You will not only be taking the appropriate amount of the risk, you will have some idea of how your portfolio will do in a down year.
Most important, once it's reviewed by a fiduciary adviser you engage to take legal responsibility for drafting your retirement plan, your policy statement can show you over time if your return expectations are realistic. Keep in mind that you also need to estimate inflation, market factors and tax liability.
''What matters is after-tax wealth,'' said Michael A. Dubis, a fee-only certified financial planner in Madison, Wis. ''I will tell clients if their return expectations don't make sense. Hope is not a strategy.''
Mr. Dubis sees a policy statement as part of a coordinated financial planning process. Although most advisers are generally focused on investments, they can also work with tax, estate and insurance advisers on protecting your assets and helping them grow over time.
To draft a policy statement, you need to determine your investment philosophy. What kind of investor should you be? Can you afford to be aggressive? Maybe not, if your income is tied to a volatile industry like financial services. Are you an active or passive investor? Trading is rarely a good idea when hundreds of index funds are available, offering broad exposure to nearly every market.
Advisers should include in the statement their style of money management, how much they charge, their responsibilities and a periodic review schedule. They may even include some language on what they won't or can't do -- like estate planning or tax planning -- although they often coordinate with other professionals. Even computerized Monte Carlo analyses of the probability of achieving your goals are useful.
Once you review your objectives, what you own, how you want to invest and risk and return expectations over given time periods, you can sit down with your planner to construct a portfolio that's right for you. The amateur investment group Bogleheads provides an excellent introduction to the process.
A draft portfolio is a synthesis of the information you supply your planner. A sample might stress long-term growth in United States and international stocks, along with bonds, real estate investment trusts and inflation-protected securities.
Larry Swedroe, director of research for Buckingham Asset Management in St. Louis, said people needed to do some self-analysis and chat with family members before the final statement was in place.
''You need to separate desires from needs,'' said Mr. Swedroe, who wrote ''The Only Guide You'll Ever Need for the Right Financial Plan'' (Bloomberg Press 2010). ''It's critical to integrate your plan with taxes, estate planning and insurance needs. It's a necessary condition for success, but not a sufficient one.''
Mr. Swedroe recommends that clients also do a mind map, which is like a flow chart that shows relationships among family members, assets, advisers, interests, values and goals.
While this process sounds tedious and time-consuming -- it can take up to four meetings to draft and review a policy statement with your adviser -- it is worthwhile because it may address needs you've never discussed with your family or advisers.
What do you do if the market dives just before your retirement? Can you save more? What if you have to support an aging relative? What if you sell some real estate and downsize? Your statement can be adjusted as you go along.
At the very least, your adviser should be able to tell you the worst- and best-case range of returns given your investment allocation. That way, you can insulate your portfolio from a dismal year like 2008.
A few paragraphs on how your adviser will manage your money is also essential before you actually build the portfolio. If his or her objectives differ from yours, you need to discuss it. Do you want an actively managed, aggressive growth strategy? Or are you more focused on capital preservation and income? Don't stay with an adviser whose approach doesn't match your needs.
Like any moving vehicle, an investment policy statement needs regular care, maintenance and rebalancing. It should be flexible to accommodate changes in your life: divorces, aging parents, inheritances. As the route of your journey changes, you may need a new road map.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELEANOR DAVIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ESTATE PLANNING (77%); TAX PLANNING (70%); TAX LAW (65%); INDEX FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



297 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Planned $600 Million Catskill Resort Faces Suit and Doubts

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Two companies are planning to develop the largest resort in upstate New York in decades -- a $600 million entertainment, housing and gambling complex on the grounds of a once-famous borscht belt hotel.
The project, which will be unveiled on Thursday night at a town meeting in Thompson, northwest of New York City, includes a proposal to move the Monticello racetrack and slot machine parlor to the site of the hotel, the Concord, where Milton Berle, Danny Kaye and Buddy Hackett once entertained vacationing New Yorkers. The Monticello racetrack is four miles from the Concord property.
The companies, Entertainment Properties Trust, which owns 1,530 acres there, and Kien Huat, the Malaysian company that controls the racetrack, also want to build a hotel, a conference center, a water park and an upscale shopping mall alongside a refurbished championship golf course at the site, in Sullivan County. 
Tim Lies, a project executive for Entertainment Properties, said the company's vision would be ''respectful of the grand tradition of the Catskill resorts.'' It includes housing for professionals in the area as well as a new clubhouse for the golf course.
But like any number of proposals to revive the once-thriving Catskill region over the past 50 years, this one comes with challenges, intrigue and doubts that it will ever materialize.
Entertainment Properties is a publicly traded company based in Kansas City, Mo., that owns movie theaters and entertainment complexes. Kien Huat is owned by KT Lim, chairman of Genting Berhad, one of the largest gambling and resort companies in the world. Kien Huat controls Empire Resorts, which operates the Monticello racetrack.
Last year, Genting opened a $450 million gambling hall with 5,000 electronic slot machines at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. If the state approves casino gambling next year, as proposed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Mr. Lim hopes that both complexes will get licenses to operate full-scale casinos.
On Wednesday, less than 48 hours before the meeting in Thompson, Louis R. Cappelli, the Westchester County developer who bought the defunct Concord resort in 1999 but lost most of the property, filed a lawsuit in federal court in Manhattan, seeking to stop the project. He contended that Entertainment Properties and the racetrack company controlled by Kien Huat had engaged in a ''secret conspiracy'' to block his plans for the development of a competing racetrack and casino at the site.
Mr. Cappelli is seeking $1.5 billion in damages from the companies, both of which have been partners with him in the past. Mr. Cappelli, who still owns an adjoining 165 acres, asserted that Entertainment Properties could not develop the Concord property without his approval, based on a government-approved master plan.
Entertainment Properties said it could not comment on the lawsuit because it had not yet seen it.
Officials in Sullivan County, which faces high unemployment, have embraced a succession of developers who promised to revive the local economy and provide jobs, then failed to follow through. Most of the hotels and bungalow colonies that dotted the wooded hillsides 50 years ago have crumbled and closed.
Mr. Cappelli has won county approval over the past decade for at least four versions of a resort on the Concord property. In each instance, much like several proposed Las Vegas-style casinos, the projects collapsed.
In 2009, Entertainment Properties moved to foreclose on a $162.5 million loan that it had made to Mr. Cappelli.
The dispute ended in 2010, when Entertainment Properties took control of the 1,530 acres and agreed to give Mr. Cappelli a two-year option to obtain financing and repurchase the land. That agreement expires in June.
Mr. Lies, of Entertainment Trust, said his company had the ''capability to execute our plan'' and hoped to begin construction in November. It is submitting a new master plan for the property and talking to developers.
''We're excited to finally get something here,'' Anthony P. Cellini, supervisor of the Town of Thompson, said. ''They've got the property. They've got the money. They've got top-notch professionals working with them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (84%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); GOLF (73%); WATER PARKS (73%); DAMAGES (65%)

COMPANY: GENTING BHD (66%); EPR PROPERTIES (57%)

TICKER: EPR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



298 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Dispose of $6 Billion of Its Stake in A.I.G.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
The Treasury Department announced a plan on Wednesday to sell $6 billion of its American International Group shares, further whittling down the federal government's holdings in the insurance giant it helped bail out during the financial crisis. 
As part of the offering, which is expected to be completed in a few days, A.I.G. will buy back up to $3 billion worth of the common stock that the Treasury Department is selling.
A.I.G. will also repay $8.5 billion in other obligations to the Treasury Department, principally using proceeds gained from various asset sales.
The plan is the latest effort by the federal government to unwind its $182 billion bailout of A.I.G. in 2008.
Last spring, the Treasury Department sold off 200 million shares of the insurer in a highly awaited offering known as the ''re-I.P.O.'' of A.I.G.
Yet that sale still left the government owning about 77 percent of the company, down from 92 percent.
Upon the completion of the new stock offering, the government will own a stake in the company worth about $41.8 billion, or roughly 70 percent, depending on how well the sale fares.
For A.I.G., shedding the Treasury's ownership stake would not only remove a haunting reminder of the company's near-death experience, but also bolster its status as a fully functioning company and erase any doubt that it is no longer a ward of the state.
''The bottom line is this: The people of A.I.G. have achieved another significant milestone in our progress toward our goal that American taxpayers recoup their entire investment in A.I.G. at a profit,'' Robert H. Benmosche, the insurer's chief executive, said in a statement. ''We are very pleased with our progress to date and look forward to building on our momentum.''
And for the government, disposing of the stake would close the chapter on one of the most controversial bailouts in recent memory.
Still, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is owed about $9.3 billion through a loan that is supporting a special entity that holds some mortgage-related securities the government bought from A.I.G. as part of its rescue.
A.I.G. has labored to raise money to pay back its government obligations and to shore up its operations. In the more than three years since its bailout, the company has spun off or sold major international units. It hopes to spin off additional divisions, notably the International Lease Finance Corporation, an aircraft-leasing business, in the near future.
Last month, A.I.G. reported improving results at most of its core businesses, and its operating profit exceeded analysts' expectations. Its fourth-quarter profit, however, received an enormous lift from a one-time accounting benefit.
Shares of the company rose 1.4 percent to $29.45 on Wednesday, though they fell in after-hours trading. They have risen about 27 percent so far this year.
The sale of the Treasury's A.I.G. common shares is being managed by Citigroup, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert H. Benmosche, the chief executive of A.I.G. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (68%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (61%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (61%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



299 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2542 words

HEADLINE: After the Storm

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
A DECADE ago, Jonnie Worth had her eyes on retiring at age 62. Year after year, she funneled money into her 401(k), first when she worked as an event planner and later when she worked in the private banking department at JPMorgan Chase. But the financial crisis of 2008 swamped Ms. Worth. ''Like everyone else, I watched my retirement savings plummet,'' she said. ''I lost a big percentage of my investments.''
Now 65, Ms. Worth is still working full time; her hopes of retiring at 62 sank along with the 2008 stock market. She does client liaison work for a financial planning firm in Fort Worth, and she still conscientiously puts aside money each month for retirement.
''Nobody else is going to do it for you,'' she said. As for how much longer she plans to work, she said, ''I would say at least five years, maybe longer.'' 
This wasn't how it was supposed to be.
In many ways, things are looking up for America's economy. After several years of roller-coaster-ish volatility, the Dow Jones industrial average has climbed to its highest level since the 2008 financial crisis. Economic growth, though not robust, has been gathering steam, and the unemployment rate has been inching downward, although fitfully.
While economic experts voice guarded optimism about the overall picture, many experts are highly pessimistic about the part of the tableau involving retirement -- specifically how well (or not well) Americans are preparing for it.
The Center for Retirement Research at Boston College -- the nation's leading research group on this issue -- estimates that 51 percent of households are at risk of not having enough to maintain their living standards after retirement.
A New York Times/CBS News poll in October found that 63 percent of Americans said they did not think they would have enough money to live comfortably when they reached retirement age. And a recent Gallup poll found that 66 percent of Americans said their top financial concern was not having enough money for retirement.
''There's a crisis situation because near-retirees lost 25 percent of their assets in the financial crisis,'' said Teresa Ghilarducci, a retirement expert at the New School. ''It looks like most middle-class Americans will become poor or near-poor retirees.''
Whether one is 30, 40, 50 or 60, there are two routes to being adequately prepared: saving enough in the years before retirement (which means many people should be saving considerably more than they are) or pushing back the year of retirement.
''We encourage people to work an extra year or two before retiring because every year you work is in essence a twofer,'' said David Certner, the legislative policy director for AARP. ''It means one more year in building up your pension or 401(k) and one less year withdrawing money to live on in retirement.''
Hurt by the downturn and worried that they have saved too little for retirement, many older Americans are working longer -- 18 percent of Americans 65 and over are in the labor force, up from 13 percent a decade ago, translating into an increase of three million workers in that age group.
As for saving money, if someone begins saving $10,000 a year for retirement at age 35, that can easily turn into an impressive nest egg of more than $500,000 by age 65, thanks to compounded investment returns. But if one does not begin saving until age 50 and then sets aside $5,000 a year, that could mean a nest egg of less than $100,000, far less than many experts say is needed. According to the Federal Reserve's most recent figures, the median family 55 to 64 had $98,000 in retirement accounts.
Worried about all the inadequate savings, George Papadopoulos, a financial planner in Novi, Mich., has a maxim. ''I tell everybody I talk to -- the earlier, the more, the better,'' he said. ''The earlier you can save and the more you can save and invest, the better the options you will have in life and in retirement.''
There is plenty of reason for all the retirement anxiety. Like Jonnie Worth, many Americans lost tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of dollars, when the markets and their 401(k)'s swooned in 2008 -- all told, 401(k) plans and individual retirement accounts lost $2.8 trillion in value. Thirty-six percent of American workers age 55 to 64 say they have less than $25,000 in retirement savings, according to a survey by the Employee Benefit Research Institute. (The number is 52 percent for workers age 45 to 54.) Rock-bottom interest rates have squeezed older Americans who rely on interest from their bond or retirement accounts, and many companies, viewing them as too costly, have eliminated or frozen the traditional pensions that guarantee retirees a solid monthly stipend. Today only 17 percent of workers have such defined-benefit pensions, while 39 percent have 401(k)'s; some in those two groups have both, but an unfortunate 53 percent of all workers have neither.
Housing prices have not recovered from their tumble, making it harder to take sizable sums out of one's home to help finance retirement -- either by selling one's house or through a reverse mortgage. On top of all this, Washington is awash with talk about scaling back Social Security benefits, even though about a third of America's retirees receive at least 90 percent of their income from Social Security. ''Half the population looks in pretty good shape, and the other half, I don't know how they're going to make it financially if they retire at 66 or 67,'' said Jack VanDerhei, research director for the Employee Benefit Research Institute.
Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Boston College research center on retirement, said there was a simple reason so many Americans were unprepared.
''We as a nation have institutionalized too low a savings rate,'' she said. ''Retirement is really expensive. We need to budget a higher percent of our income to it than we are.''
Many Americans, she noted, retire at 65 naively thinking they can live comfortably just on Social Security and the $100,000 or so they have in a 401(k). If these people follow the advice of financial planners, she said, they will draw 4 percent each year from their 401(k)'s, translating to $4,000 a year. When that is added to the average amount retirees receive in Social Security -- $14,700 a year -- it translates to $18,700 a year or just over $1,550 a month (or around $33,000 for a couple when both receive benefits).
''That's not a lot,'' Ms. Munnell said. She warned that many Americans could slide into poverty in retirement because their nest eggs were so small.
One piece of upbeat news is that Americans are generally living longer. For couples retiring this year, there is a 50 percent chance that one spouse will live to 92. But there's a downside to this increased longevity: many retirees are depleting their nest eggs by age 80 or 85, and they then have to rely on Social Security and the generosity of their children, many of whom are already squeezed financially.
''I have tons of clients in their 90s who never thought they would live this long,'' said Diahann W. Lassus, a financial planner in New Providence, N.J.
Bemoaning the small size of many people's nest eggs, Mr. VanDerhei said workers with traditional pensions were generally in far better shape than those with 401(k)'s, because pensioners receive a defined monthly benefit for life. In even worse shape, he said, are the majority of workers who have neither a pension nor a 401(k) plan at work.
Many Americans with 401(k)'s do not save enough, many empty their accounts for living expenses when they lose their jobs, and many, Mr. VanDerhei said, skew their accounts too much toward equities, often in their own companies' stock -- bitter medicine when the stock market plunged. And some workers drain their 401(k) accounts to help pay for college for their children; indeed, the soaring cost of college prevents many parents from even saving for retirement.
A big question is, how much should one save? Traditionally, many financial planners put forward a rule of thumb that one's postretirement income -- through Social Security, savings and pensions -- should be 65 to 85 percent of one's preretirement income. Postretirement income can be lower, the logic goes, because one will no longer be making contributions to Social Security, commuting or buying as many suits.
But many financial planners steer people away from relying on a theoretical retirement replacement rate. Instead, they recommend using a retirement calculator to estimate how much they will need to save each year to reach their goal. (AARP has a highly recommended calculator: www.aarp.org/retirementcalculator.)
Some calculators ask people to insert the annual return they hope to achieve, but planners warn against seeking ambitious returns because they can involve a lot of risk. It is vital to assess one's risk tolerance, said Tom Orecchio, a financial planner in Westwood, N.J. ''Everyone thought their risk tolerance was one thing until they lived through the financial crisis, and then they realized their risk tolerance was very different,'' he said. Some still expect investment returns of 8 percent a year, but, Mr. Orecchio said, 4 to 5 percent is a far more realistic goal.
Fred Sanford, 59, moved to Orlando, Fla., from Illinois in 2004 to take a job as a financial adviser with Merrill Lynch, helping to attract clients and invest their money. He steadily put aside money for retirement, he said, investing it conservatively, but nonetheless ''lost a chunk'' in the stock market after Lehman Brothers collapsed in 2008. Not only that, Merrill laid him off 18 months ago. ''I guess I hadn't saved enough for retirement, nor do I think anybody else has,'' he said. ''What is enough?''
He has tried to climb back into financial services, but to no avail. To help make ends meet, Mr. Sanford and his wife have begun letting out a room in their house. In addition, helped by his Web site fredsanfordmusic.com, he plays piano several nights each week -- ''boomer tunes, Billy Joel and Stevie Wonder,'' he said -- at wine bars and country clubs. Retirement is nowhere in sight, he acknowledged, adding, ''60, 65 is the new 40, 45.''
Fortunately, his wife still has her job as a school paraprofessional who works with autistic children in Orlando, where thousands of homes have been foreclosed upon and many families with children are homeless.
''You have to be grateful in life for what you have because no matter how bad you have it, there are those worse off than you,'' Mr. Sanford said.
Mr. Orecchio recommended that everyone sit down to do retirement planning as well as a cash-flow analysis to determine how much is coming in and spent each month. Without that, he said, it is hard to figure out how much one can afford to save for retirement.
He said not just households with incomes of $1 million a year need financial planners but also those with incomes of $50,000, $70,000 or $100,000 a year. They can often find such planners through the National Association of Personal Financial Advisers, a fee-only group. Financial planners like him often say that Americans do not begin to understand how much they should be setting aside. If a couple hopes to live on $60,000 a year in retirement, they might receive $30,000 in Social Security benefits and then draw down $30,000 a year from their savings and investments. Assuming the recommended drawdown of 4 percent a year, a nest egg of $750,000 might be needed.
Financial experts generally urge workers to try their hardest to invest the maximum amount allowed into their 401(k) each year -- $17,000 for 2012 under current law, with a catch-up provision allowing people 50 and over to contribute an additional $5,500. ''I tell my clients that is nonnegotiable; they've just got to do it,'' Mr. Papadopoulos said.
Of course, that is far more than many workers can afford to set aside, but putting $17,000 instead of $5,000 into one's 401(k) means no income taxes on an extra $12,000. (In case you are wondering, some tax experts have noted that the 401(k) tax breaks go disproportionately to the affluent.)
Mr. Papadopoulos said, ''I tell my clients to practice these basic things: diversify, keep costs low, be mindful of Uncle Sam and focus on the things you can control.''
One thing many Americans can control is when they will start receiving Social Security benefits. Many advisers recommend delaying that move until you really need the money. For Americans born from 1943 to 1954, the retirement age for full Social Security benefits is 66. That age rises in steps to 67 for those born in 1960 or later.
If one qualifies, say, for $1,500 a month in Social Security benefits at 66, and begins taking early benefits at 62, under current rules, those benefits will be 25 percent lower, or $1,125 a month. But if one takes a chance on longevity and decides not to draw benefits until age 70, then one would receive 32 percent more than normal benefits or, in this case, $1,980 a month. ''It's an inexpensive way of taking a better annuity,'' said Mr. Certner of the AARP.
Among financial planners, there is considerable debate about whether to buy annuities. Ms. Lassus said she did not recommend annuities, saying, ''We look at Social Security as an annuity.''
Mr. Orecchio disagreed, occasionally recommending annuities ''as a steadying factor for inco me in retirement.'' Mr. Papadopoulos, however, cautioned against buying variable annuities that rise with inflation, calling them too expensive. ''Fixed annuities will serve the purpose,'' he said. An annuity starting at age 70 and paying a lifetime monthly income of $2,000, or $24,000 a year, can cost about $300,000 for a man and $330,000 for a woman (the actuarial tables say she'll live longer). There is a similar debate about long-term care insurance. Mr. Certner said many people did not plan ever to enter a nursing home, which can be very expensive. So he recommended that people consider long-term care insurance, lest nursing homes wipe out all their savings.
Ms. Munnell is less enthusiastic about long-term care insurance. Not only can it be very expensive (typically, $2,800 annually if purchased at age 55, for a plan offering $150 a day for four years) but insurers sometimes increase the premiums 20 percent or more in a year, forcing some to drop their insurance after they have paid tens of thousands of dollars for it over decades.
She said she worried that nursing home costs and the failure of many older Americans to save nearly enough for retirement would saddle many of their children with major burdens: providing financial support and care for their parents.
''Older people are reluctant to turn to their children, but their children are going to feel compelled to help,'' Ms. Munnell said. ''You can't have a vulnerable elderly population in isolation. It's going to affect everybody.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about post-recession prospects for retirees misstated the value lost by 401(k) plans in the downturn. It was $1.6 trillion in equity value, not $2.8 trillion. (The larger figure was the amount of equity losses in 401(k) plans and Individual Retirement Accounts combined.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A PIANO MAN: Fred Sanford, 59, plays club dates to make ends meet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CARINE) (F8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY BEDROSIAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); PRIVATE BANKING (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



300 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Director Warns Congress About Terrorist Hacking

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A day after the authorities arrested several hackers from the Anonymous movement, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, warned members of Congress that terrorist groups might use hackers to attack the United States. 
''Terrorists have shown interest in pursuing hacking skills,'' Mr. Mueller said Wednesday in written testimony to a House appropriations subcommittee reviewing the bureau's budget. ''And they may seek to train their own recruits or hire outsiders, with an eye toward pursuing cyberattacks. These adaptations of the terrorist threat make the F.B.I.'s counterterrorism mission that much more difficult and challenging.''
Mr. Mueller said that the federal government must act swiftly to prevent such attacks and economic espionage from other countries because they pose a ''potentially devastating'' threat to the country's businesses and infrastructure.
''We tend to focus on protecting our databases, protecting our infrastructure, which is absolutely an appropriate focus,'' he said. ''But we should not forget that you want to identify these individuals who are responsible for these crimes, investigate them, prosecute them and put them in jail for a substantial period of time.''
Mr. Mueller has been particularly vocal over the past week about the issue of hacking and cybersecurity. Last Thursday at the RSA computer security conference in San Francisco, Mr. Mueller said that a terrorist had proclaimed in a recruiting video ''that cyberwarfare will be the warfare of the future.''
Anonymous embarrassed the F.B.I. in February when it posted a 16-minute recording of a conference between the bureau and law enforcement officials in Europe about their joint investigation into the hackers. The group has supported the whistle-blower site WikiLeaks and has claimed responsibility for hacking the Web site of a law firm that represented a Marine accused of killing unarmed civilians in Haditha, Iraq, in 2005.
On Tuesday, federal prosecutors in New York revealed that a leading hacker known as Sabu had been cooperating with the federal authorities, helping them to arrest several ''hactivists'' for Anonymous in the United States and Europe. Sabu was identified in court papers as Hector Xavier Monsegur, a 28-year-old who operated from a sixth-floor apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
Mr. Monsegur pleaded guilty in August to dozens of hacking charges. On Tuesday, charges against five others, including a man in Chicago and others in Britain and Ireland, were unsealed by the prosecutors in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CYBERCRIME (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CYBERTERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ESPIONAGE (70%); LAWYERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



301 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Number of U.S. Hate Groups Is Rising, Report Says

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Fed by antagonism toward President Obama, resentment toward changing racial demographics and the economic rift between rich and poor, the number of so-called hate groups and antigovernment organizations in the nation has continued to grow, according to a report released Wednesday by the Southern Poverty Law Center. 
The center, which has kept track of such groups for 30 years, recorded 1,018 hate groups operating last year.
The number of groups whose ideology is organized against specific racial, religious, sexual or other characteristics has risen steadily since 2000, when 602 were identified, the center said. Antigay groups, for example, have risen to 27 from 17 in 2010.
The report also described a ''stunning'' rise in the number of groups it identifies as part of the so-called patriot and militia movements, whose ideologies include deep distrust of the federal government.
In 2011, the center tracked 1,274 of those groups, up from 824 the year before.
''They represent both a kind of right-wing populist rage and a left-wing populist rage that has gotten all mixed up in anger toward the government,'' said Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center and the author of the report.
The center, based in Montgomery, Ala., records only groups that are active, meaning that the groups are registering members, passing out fliers, protesting or showing other signs of activity beyond maintaining a Web site.
The Occupy movement is not on the list because its participants as a collective do not meet the center's criteria for an extremist group, he said.
One of the groups that was moved from the ''patriot'' list to the hate group list this year is the Georgia Militia, some of whose members were indicted last year in a failed plot to blow up government buildings and spread poison along Atlanta freeways. They were reclassified because their speech includes anti-Semitism.
The far-right patriot movement gained steam in 1994 after the government used violence to shut down groups at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, and Waco, Tex. It peaked after the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing and began to fade. Its rise began anew in 2008, after the election of Mr. Obama and the beginning of the recession.
There have been declines in some hate groups, including native extremist groups like the Militiamen, which focused on illegal immigration. Chapters of the Ku Klux Klan fell to 152, from 221.
Among the states with the most active hate groups were California, Florida, Georgia, New Jersey and New York. The federal government does not focus on groups that engage in hate-based speech, but rather monitors paramilitary groups and others that have shown some indication of violence, said Daryl Johnson, a former senior domestic terrorism analyst for the Department of Homeland Security.
The Justice Department does not comment on the center's annual report, but a spokeswoman said the agency had increased prosecution of hate crimes by 35 percent during the first three years of Mr. Obama's presidency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TERRORISM (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); BOMBINGS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); INDICTMENTS (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



302 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Romney Team Ponders How to Rise Above the Fray

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Jeff Zeleny reported from Boston, and Jim Rutenberg from New York. Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Boston.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Mitt Romney sought to reassure contributors, supporters and party leaders on Wednesday that his bid for the Republican presidential nomination remained on track, convening a daylong strategy session at his campaign headquarters here to recalibrate and elevate his candidacy above the tedium of fighting for delegates.
Mr. Romney, aides say, has become too mired in the nuts and bolts of how to win the nomination rather than offering an inspiring argument for why he should. Trying to gain the upper hand and assert himself as the likely nominee, he is set to focus on his economic plan, spend more time with American workers and try to unite Republicans around defeating President Obama. 
A day after the Super Tuesday contests added six more states to his winning record, including a narrow Ohio victory that spared him an even tougher round of second-guessing, Mr. Romney huddled with his advisers to address the deficiencies that have become clear during two months of rigorous campaigning. There were no immediate recriminations, aides said, but widespread agreement that he and his campaign must improve their performance.
''We're in a new phase of the campaign,'' said Matt Rhoades, the campaign manager. ''We'll start to more aggressively highlight Governor Romney's plan to turn around the economy. We'll use speeches and more media hits to drive the jobs message against President Obama and his failures.''
While Mr. Romney had hoped that a strong enough finish on Super Tuesday could persuade his Republican rivals to reconsider their candidacies, his aides acknowledged that the competition with Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich could now last until June. His campaign held a briefing here on Wednesday, where advisers argued that Mr. Romney's lead in the delegate count has become nearly insurmountable, even if his opponents would not acknowledge that.
The aggressive posture comes as the Romney campaign braces for a challenging stretch of primaries and caucuses in the South and Midwest over the next two weeks, where voters in Kansas, Alabama, Mississippi and Missouri will make their presidential preferences known. Aides were trying to pre-empt a narrative from hardening that Mr. Romney was struggling to connect with working-class and lower-income voters.
But as Mr. Romney has lurched from contest to contest -- sometimes winning, sometimes losing -- his supporters in the party have become increasingly agitated at his inability to move beyond a slate of competitors who are not known as huge political talents with well-financed or well-organized campaigns.
''I think Romney's supporters would be eager to put away what is perceived as an underfunded, second-tier field sooner than they've been able to,'' said Mike DuHaime, a senior political adviser to Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a top Romney supporter, and a veteran of the presidential campaigns of John McCain, Rudolph W. Giuliani and George W. Bush. ''But that doesn't change the fact that Governor Romney is going to be the nominee.''
He said, however, that the performance of Mr. Santorum, a former senator, on Tuesday left little room to pressure him to withdraw so Republicans could focus on Mr. Obama. ''I don't think it's credible to ask Senator Santorum to drop out at this point,'' Mr. DuHaime said, ''even if it's hard to see a path.''
The Romney campaign headquarters here in the North End of Boston was bustling with activity on Wednesday, as Mr. Romney made only his second visit of the year. He spent several hours meeting with close advisers, who presented a plan forward for his candidacy.
''I'm prepared to fight all the way to become the nominee,'' Mr. Romney said in a television interview on CNBC's ''Squawk Box'' program, his only public appearance of the day.
But the challenges for Mr. Romney, particularly the dogfight with Mr. Santorum in Ohio despite a significant financial advantage, touched off alarm among several donors and supporters. Some complained in interviews that the campaign had yet to devise a strong, simple and sound-bite-friendly economic plan with broad appeal, which could rival Mr. Gingrich's relentless focus on high gas prices.
Mr. Romney's victory in Ohio appeared to have quelled outside speculation that he would have to shake up his campaign staff. Yet it did little to tamp down criticism that he was failing to provide an overarching, inspiring vision, which was underscored by his aides making the argument that Mr. Romney would win based on the clinical work of delegate accumulation.
''You can't treat this like a math equation,'' said Alex Castellanos, a political adviser to Mr. Romney during his 2008 campaign. ''Your job as a candidate is to inspire people to join something greater than ourselves. What is Mitt asking people to be part of?''
Several campaign aides acknowledged that fatigue had settled in for both the candidate and his staff here in Boston. One adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Romney had too often resorted to micromanaging, especially on speeches and opinion pieces for newspaper editorial pages.
But supporters said in interviews they took it as a positive sign that his team of advisers had held together through the ups and downs of the year, without any major leaks that detailed friction or backbiting among aides. At this time four years ago the campaigns of Mr. McCain and Hillary Rodham Clinton had experienced staff defections, forced changes in senior positions and continuing reports of internal friction.
''We believe Mitt Romney is well on his way to the nomination,'' said Mr. Rhoades, whose office walls here are covered with maps of crucial electoral battleground states. ''He won't win every contest going forward, but he will add to his delegate lead whether he comes in first or second, and there's no real opportunity for his opponents to catch up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aides are hoping to strengthen Mitt Romney's ability to connect with voters and put out a sound-bite-friendly economic plan.
 Mr. Romney won a tight race for Ohio against Mr. Santorum on Tuesday, a victory both reassuring and worrisome for donors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



303 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Defense Officials Say Obama Reviewing Military Options in Syria

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has asked the Pentagon for military options on Syria, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, told the Senate on Wednesday. But both General Dempsey and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said the administration still believed that diplomatic and economic pressure was the best solution for protecting Syrians from the Assad regime.
In testimony before the Senate Armed Services committee, Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey fended off sharp questions from Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, about why the administration was not considering American airstrikes in Syria. On Monday Mr. McCain became the first senator to call for airstrikes, describing them as ''the only realistic way'' to stop what he called a slaughter. The United Nations has said more than 7,500 civilians have been killed in the year-long uprising against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.But Mr. Panetta said intervention could expedite a civil war in the country and make an explosive situation worse. He said bluntly that the Obama administration recognized ''that there are limitations of military force, especially with U.S. boots on the ground.'' 
Both Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey said repeatedly that Syria was far different from Libya, where an American-led air campaign established a no-fly zone before the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi last year. General Dempsey told the committee that although ''we can do anything,'' Syria had five times the air defenses that Libya did, and because of that establishing a no-fly zone would take ''an extended period of time and a great number of aircraft.'' He said the early stages of an air campaign would ''almost unquestionably'' be led by the United States, as was the case in Libya, because of American electronic warfare capabilities.
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, tried to draw General Dempsey out on what he saw as a potentially protracted operation. ''So from a perceptual view alone, the opening stages in any military operation would be an extended, almost exclusive air campaign by the United States against Syria, presumably supported politically by the Arab League, NATO, the E.U. and everyone else. But the kinetic part of the operation would be ours for several weeks before we actually decided even going in and effectively protecting Syrians. Is that a fair judgment?''
''It is a fair judgment,'' General Dempsey replied.
Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey both predicted civilian casualties in an air campaign because forces loyal to President Assad are intermingled in dense urban areas with the general population. In addition, both said the opposition was so splintered that it was difficult to know whom the United States should potentially supply with arms.
''In Libya, there were leaders who came to the front,'' Mr. Panetta told the committee. But in Syria, ''it's very difficult to be able to know who we deal with in terms of an opposition.'' General Dempsey said the opposition was composed of as many as 100 different groups.
In the meantime, General Dempsey said the Pentagon was preparing options that had been requested by President Obama for review, ranging from humanitarian airlifts, naval monitoring, aerial surveillance of the Syrian military and the establishment of a no-fly zone.
A further complication, General Dempsey said, is that both Iran and Russia are supplying Syria with weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LEON E PANETTA (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); JACK REED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



304 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: President Pushes to Add More Credits for Hybrids

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
President Obama on Wednesday proposed sweetened tax incentives and subsidies to spur the market for alternative-power cars and trucks, promoting his ''all of the above'' energy strategy while warning against other politicians' ''quick fixes'' to the latest spike in gasoline prices.
Mr. Obama made his fourth trip in less than six months to North Carolina, an election battleground state he won narrowly in 2008, to describe his ideas at the Daimler Trucks North America manufacturing plant near Charlotte. There, he was met with news that his support in the state has inched higher but that more residents still disapprove of how he is handling his job and the economy than approve of it, according to a poll by Elon University and The Charlotte Observer newspaper. 
The president called for increasing to $10,000 an existing $7,500 credit per vehicle for consumers and businesses that buy cars and trucks powered by electric battery, natural gas or hydrogen. He would also expand the technologies that qualify and allow buyers to benefit at the time of purchase, by transferring the credit to the dealer or financier.
The credit's enhanced value would bring the purchase price of alternative-energy vehicles more in line with conventional models, supporters say. Partly because of the vehicles' costs, sales have been a problem. General Motors announced last week that it was suspending production for five weeks of the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid that Mr. Obama has promoted in the past. On Wednesday, he did not mention his goal of having one million electric vehicles on the nation's roads in 2015.
Mr. Obama also proposed a new five-year tax break for those who buy commercial trucks that run on electricity or natural gas. Purchasers would get to reduce their tax liability by an amount equal to half the price difference between an alternative-power truck and a similar, lower-priced conventional vehicle.
He also said he would seek Congress's approval for $1 billion to award up to 15 cities that provide the infrastructure needed for alternative-power vehicles, like battery-charging stations, and $650 million for a research program to increase the range and decrease the price of alternative-power vehicles.
To offset the cost of his proposals, Mr. Obama proposed a familiar source: repeal of $4 billion in annual tax incentives for oil and gas companies. While Republicans and some energy-state Democrats routinely oppose the idea, Mr. Obama told his receptive audience of plant managers and union workers to urge their representatives in Congress to support it.
''It's time to end that taxpayer giveaway to an industry that's never been more profitable, invest in clean energy that's never been more promising,'' he said.
With polls showing increased voter concern with pump prices, in Washington aides to Speaker John A. Boehner circulated an e-mail to reporters quoting headlines from Charlotte about rising prices there. Republican presidential candidates also have assailed Mr. Obama as discouraging oil production, and one, Newt Gingrich, promises $2.50-a-gallon gasoline.
But Mr. Obama used his speech to rebut the Republican attacks, citing statistics showing increases in oil production, acres under exploration and pipeline permits during his administration. He blamed world markets roiled by instability in the Middle East, and market speculation, for higher gasoline prices.
''The next time you hear some politician trotting out some three-point plan for $2 gas, you let them know, we know better,'' he said. ''Tell them we're tired of hearing phony election-year promises that never come about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke on Wednesday at a truck manufacturing plant near Charlotte, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICS (79%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



305 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Rising Demand Eases Loss For New Jersey Home Builder

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Hovnanian Enterprises, the largest home builder in New Jersey, reported a narrower first-quarter loss on Wednesday as it reduced write-downs and increased sales.
In the three-month period ended Jan. 31, Hovnanian lost $18.3 million, or 17 cents a share, compared with a loss of $64.1 million, or 82 cents, a year earlier. Wall Street had been expecting a loss of about 42 cents a share, according to the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. 
Hovnanian, which has been buying land at distressed prices in an attempt to increase its profit margins, is benefiting from stronger demand for houses. Its net new orders increased 27 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, to 1,079 homes, the builder said. Orders jumped 38 percent last month from February 2011.
''The spring selling season is off to a good start in February,'' Ara K. Hovnanian, the company's chief executive, said in the statement. ''We are hopeful that these positive trends continue.''
Purchases of new single-family houses beat analysts' expectations in January and sales for December and November were revised upward, according to the Commerce Department.
Hovnanian's first-quarter results included $3.3 million in pretax land-related impairments, down from $13.5 million a year earlier. Revenue rose to $269.6 million, from $252.6 million a year earlier.
Hovnanian's operations ''are unlikely to improve meaningfully over the next several quarters,'' Vincent Foley and Cedric Morris, analysts with Barclays Capital, said this week in a note to clients.
''We are cautious on the company because of its continued lack of profitability, poor liquidity, unsustainable leverage, elevated annual interest burden and aggressive land buying,'' the analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



306 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1721 words

HEADLINE: Intractable Afghan Graft Hampering U.S. Strategy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Sharifullah Sahak and Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- For the past few months, possibly the most intriguing poker game in Kabul has been taking place in the sprawling pink sitting room of the man at the center of one of the most public corruption scandals in the world, the near collapse of Kabul Bank.
The players include people tied to President Hamid Karzai's inner circle, many of whom have profited from the crony capitalism that has come to define Afghanistan's economic order, and nearly brought down Kabul Bank. The game's stakes ''aren't too big -- a few thousand dollars up or down,'' one of the participants said.
Betting thousands of dollars a night in a country where most families live off a few hundred dollars a year would seem like a bad play for Sherkhan Farnood, the founder and former chairman of Kabul Bank, the country's biggest. His assets are supposed to be frozen, and he is still facing the threat of prosecution over a scandal that could end up costing the Afghan government -- and, by extension, the Western countries that pay most of its expenses -- almost $900 million, a sum that nearly equals the government's total annual revenues. 
But Mr. Farnood, who in 2008 won about $143,000 at a World Series of Poker event in Europe, appears to know a good wager when he sees one. Despite years of urging and oversight by American advisers, Mr. Karzai's government has yet to prosecute a high-level corruption case. And now many American officials say that they have little expectation that Mr. Farnood's case will prove to be the exception -- or that Washington will try to do much about it, especially after violent anti-American protests in recent weeks have sowed fresh doubts in the Obama administration over the viability of the mission in Afghanistan.
As Americans pull back from Afghanistan, Mr. Farnood's case exemplifies how the United States is leaving behind a problem it underwrote over the past decade with tens of billions of dollars of aid and logistical support: a narrow business and political elite defined by its corruption, and despised by most Afghans for it.
The Americans and Afghans blame each other for the problem's seeming intractability, contributing to the deterioration in relations that now threatens to scuttle talks on the shape of ties between the countries after the NATO combat mission ends in 2014. What is clear is that the pervasive graft has badly undercut the American war strategy, which hinged on building the Karzai administration into a credible alternative to the Taliban.
Still, the Obama administration has concluded that pressing the fight against corruption, as many American officials tried to do in recent years, could further alienate Mr. Karzai and others around him whom Washington is relying on as it tries to manage a graceful drawdown.
''It's a little late in the game to worry about anticorruption measures because what in the world is the alternative going to be?'' said Anthony H. Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''If you find people who aren't corrupt, it is largely because they haven't had the opportunity.''
Some of the corruption will fade organically, as America and its allies cut back on their aid to Afghanistan, which is likely to have a harsh impact on the Afghan economy, Mr. Cordesman said. Efforts by the American-led coalition to better monitor the billions it spends each year in Afghanistan continue and are having an effect, although it remains slight largely because billions of dollars keep pouring in and are likely to do so for years to come.
The limits of the coalition's efforts to police its own spending -- and the newfound reluctance of top American officials to push back against Afghan intransigence over prosecuting corruption -- were laid bare in December when Mr. Karzai's office demanded that the coalition provide evidence if it wanted the government to prosecute the Afghan Army's former surgeon general, Gen. Ahmad Zia Yaftali.
Coalition officials had in fact provided the evidence a full year earlier. General Yaftali was suspended in December 2010 after Gen. David H. Petraeus, then the coalition commander, told Mr. Karzai that NATO investigators had found that the Afghan officer had stolen tens of millions of dollars' worth of drugs from the country's main military hospital, an institution he ran and where Afghan soldiers regularly died from simple infections because they could not afford to bribe nurses or doctors to treat them.
The running of the hospital, like much of the Afghan Army, is financed by the United States, which last year spent $11.2 billion to pay, train and equip Afghanistan's security force.
But after the suspension of the politically connected general, the investigation into his conduct remained in limbo -- until Mr. Karzai on Dec. 29 unexpectedly demanded to see the evidence he had already seen.
The American officer in charge of the inquiry, Brig. Gen. H. R. McMaster, was furious. The investigation of General Yaftali and the Dawood Military Hospital was one of the major initiatives undertaken by General McMaster's task force, a high-profile coalition effort set up in 2010 to go after corruption that was being financed by coalition spending. Now it appeared as if an officer who was accused of letting his own soldiers die so he could enrich himself would never be tried.
General McMaster and his staff quickly pulled together their evidence and wrote a statement to counter Mr. Karzai's demand. Their draft, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, struck both accusatory and conciliatory notes.
It bluntly stated that the coalition had provided the evidence Mr. Karzai was now demanding. It said efforts to investigate had been met with ''interference, obstruction, and delay.'' It quoted a pledge Mr. Karzai had made in December at an international conference in Germany to end a ''culture of impunity.''
The statement was never released. According to two NATO officials, the commander of coalition forces, Gen. John R. Allen, decided there was little to gain in picking a fight with Mr. Karzai over the matter.
A senior coalition officer who is involved with the case said he believed that it would eventually proceed. NATO is focused on preparing Afghan forces to take over the fight against the Taliban, and will continue to try to clamp down on corruption that undermines that goal, the officer said.
The American officials tracking the bank investigation seem similarly uninterested in challenging Afghan authorities over the status of Mr. Farnood and his former partner, Khalilullah Frozi.
Under pressure from the United States and its allies, Afghan authorities arrested both men in June. Kabul Bank was taken over nearly 10 months earlier amid accusations that its owners used it as their personal piggy bank.
Mr. Farnood spent more than $150 million of the bank's money on villas in Dubai purchased in his own name. Kabul Bank money helped finance shell companies whose main function was to win subcontracts from businesses doing work for the American-led coalition, siphon a slice of the money and then find other subcontractors to do the actual work, American officials have said. Mahmoud Karzai, a brother of the Afghan president, and Abdul Haseen Fahim, a brother of the first vice president, Gen. Muhammad Qasim Fahim, both received interest-free loans so they could buy stakes in the bank.
News of the takeover prompted a run on the bank that almost led to its collapse. Afghanistan's central bank spent nearly $900 million to keep it afloat, an outlay that the Afghan government, already short of cash, has since had to cover. While some of that money is likely to be recovered, some Western officials concede that donor funds will eventually be needed to close the hole in the Afghan budget, even if Western dollars do not go directly to cover Kabul Bank's losses.
Deputy Attorney General Rahmatullah Nazari said the authorities this past fall gave permission to let Mr. Farnood and Mr. Frozi out of prison during the daytime so they could help recover assets owed to the bank. Mr. Farnood owes the bank $467 million, he said; Mr. Frozi owes $78 million.
Mr. Frozi has been helpful in tracking down missing assets; Mr. Farnood less so, Mr. Nazari said, although some Western officials disputed that characterization and said it was Mr. Farnood who was being more helpful.
But it is unclear how hard the Afghan government is pushing either man. The villas and a pair of partly constructed office towers in Dubai are still in Mr. Farnood's name, and Mr. Nazari said the transfer of the property was being held up by a 2 percent tax that the United Arab Emirates levy on such deals. Some Western officials questioned why a routine tax would hold up such an important transaction.
Meanwhile, Mr. Farnood is collecting rent from tenants in some of the villas, Mr. Nazari said.
But, Mr. Nazari insisted, both will be prosecuted once the asset recovery has been completed.
American, European and even some Afghan officials say they doubt that will happen. Despite Mr. Nazari's claim that both spend their nights in prison, the two have rented separate houses in Kabul and rarely, if ever, return to their cells, said people close to the men.
Mr. Farnood's spacious house stands behind high walls in Kabul's most expensive neighborhood, around the corner from the office of the International Monetary Fund, which is overseeing a forensic audit of Kabul Bank.
A pool table, a table for table tennis, a large Samsung flat-screen television and a set of purple faux-leather couches and arm chairs grace the cavernous pink sitting room. A pair of late-model black Toyota Land Cruisers sit in the driveway. The officer from Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security, the country's intelligence agency, who mans the front door functions more like a doorman than a guard.
Mr. Farnood lunches regularly at the Kabul Serena Hotel, where the buffet costs about $25 a head. Mr. Frozi has his own spot, Boccaccio, an upscale Italian eatery popular with well-heeled Afghans and foreigners, including American and European diplomats.
Lunching there on afternoon last month with four other men, Mr. Frozi declined to talk to a reporter. He said the American press had ''destroyed the bank,'' and he dismissed his questioner with a wave of his hand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kabul Bank is at the center of a corruption scandal that could cost the Afghan government -- and by extension, Western nations -- hundreds of millions of dollars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY S. SABAWOON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Two Kabul Bank officials, Sherkhan Farnood, left, and Khalilullah Frozi, were arrested last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POKER (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALIBAN (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



307 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GENEVA AUTO SHOW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Auto Overcapacity Gives Leaders Another Stubborn Issue to Ponder

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
GENEVA -- While Europe has been preoccupied with the euro crisis, another storm has been gathering that could also take a grievous toll on jobs and growth.
Just as Europe has too much debt, it also has more automobile factories than the economy can support. The overcapacity is not exactly a secret, but judging from the talk at the Geneva auto show this week, a long-postponed reckoning is nigh.
''All of the car manufacturers have capacity problems -- all of them,'' Carlos Ghosn, head of the Nissan-Renault alliance, said in Geneva. The industry is just waiting for one company to make the first move, he said. 
''If somebody restructures, it's going to force everybody to restructure,'' Mr. Ghosn said.
Government scrap programs, which promoted the replacement of older vehicles with new ones and helped carry the industry through the downturn of 2009 and 2010, are not likely to be repeated. Governments are not in a financial position to subsidize unproductive plants as they may have in the past. Instead, the big question is how to manage the inevitable downsizing.
Sergio Marchionne, the chief executive of Chrysler and Fiat, repeated a call he had made earlier for the European Union to step in and help car companies ''distribute the pain and suffering,'' the way it helped manage cuts in the steel industry in the 1990s. In Europe, any attempt to cut costs can quickly deteriorate into a political struggle among the countries that stand to lose jobs.
''That is the only way to do it,'' Mr. Marchionne said at the auto show. ''There has to be some production taken out.''
Mr. Marchionne, who besides running two of the world's biggest car companies is president of the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association, estimated that the industry needed to cut capacity in Europe by 20 percent. That is a huge number considering that the car industry directly employs 2.3 million people in Europe, including subcontractors, according to the manufacturers' association.
Unused capacity is ruinous for car companies because even idle factories cost money to maintain and unproductive workers must be paid. In addition, the oversupply of cars drives down prices. Mr. Marchionne said the glut of capacity had forced European carmakers into a ''discount binge'' similar to what happened in the United States in 2007 and 2008.
''You can't keep that up for long,'' Mr. Marchionne said. ''You'll go bankrupt.'' That is, in fact, what happened to Chrysler and General Motors.
Mr. Marchionne and Mr. Ghosn were reluctant to point fingers, but to analysts it is pretty obvious which companies are under the most pressure to confront overcapacity. They are G.M.'s Opel unit and PSA Peugeot Citroen, both of which suffered huge losses last year.
Karl-Friedrich Stracke, the chief executive of Opel, acknowledged as much in a meeting with reporters on Tuesday. He estimated that Opel, based in Germany with factories in Britain and several other countries, was operating at about 80 percent of capacity.
Mr. Stracke made no claim that an alliance with PSA Peugeot Citroen to jointly develop and purchase components, announced last week, would solve the capacity problems. ''PSA has to address their problems, and we have to address ours,'' he said. ''There is a high urgency to get our company back to sustainable production. There is no other way out.''
Mr. Stracke deflected questions about plant closings, saying that the company was in intensive discussions with ''stakeholders'' -- code for workers and political leaders -- about what to do. He said it would be several months before they reached any agreements.
Production capacity in Europe fell only a little after the downturn in 2009. Last year, Fiat closed a plant in Sicily, and Saab in Sweden went bankrupt. Opel shut down a plant in Antwerp, Belgium. But a large production overhang remains.
When Mr. Ghosn said that all the car companies in Europe suffered from overcapacity, he was presumably not including the premium automakers. Bayerische Motoren Werke, Daimler's Mercedes-Benz unit and Volkswagen's Audi unit are operating all-out to meet demand from China, the United States and strong European markets like Germany.
The bifurcation between thriving premium car builders and suffering mass-market companies is similar to the divide that exists in Europe between countries with stronger economies, like Germany, and struggling countries, like Italy and Spain.
The premium carmakers suffered capacity problems during the recession of 2008, but learned from that experience and have become better at managing fluctuations in demand. BMW, for example, makes heavy use of temporary labor. Other companies, like Porsche, outsource production of some models.
Probably the most important reason that premium carmakers do not have capacity problems is that they have been able to sell more cars even as the overall market in Europe has slumped.
BMW said Wednesday that it had had its best February ever, with sales rising 14 percent from a year earlier, to almost 128,000 cars, including the Mini and Rolls-Royce brands. Almost all of the growth for BMW was in Asia, where sales rose 35 percent, and North and South America, where they increased 26 percent. Sales were stagnant in Europe.
By contrast, sales by mass-market carmakers like Renault or Fiat tend to be skewed to some of the most vulnerable markets, including France or Italy. In January, registrations of new cars in France plunged 21 percent from a year earlier while in Italy they fell 17 percent, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association.
The mass-market carmakers also offer luxury models, but they have had trouble competing with the established German brands. ''That is our weakness,'' Mr. Ghosn said. A new model is in the works that will help Renault capture more affluent buyers, he said.
But it is unlikely that luxury Renaults or Opels will help solve those companies' overcapacity problems. It would take years to gain a share of the high-end market. ''If you want to be a big player in premium, you need patience: it took Audi 10 or 15 years,'' Peter Schwarzenbauer, the director of marketing at the company, said.
Mr. Schwarzenbauer attributed Audi's upscale position to a decision years ago to focus on making cars that were leaders in technology. The company never wavered from that strategy, he said.
''You have to stick to what you believe in,'' he said. ''You never know if it's going to work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The auto show in Geneva. Europe's luxury car companies have weathered the recession better than mass-market makers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS BALIBOUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (79%); CARLOS GHOSN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



308 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Top Pentagon Officials Stress Risks in Syria

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and RICK GLADSTONE; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Washington, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Reporting was contributed by Neil MacFarquhar, Hwaida Saad and an employee of The New York Times from Beirut, Lebanon, Edward Wong from Beijing, and Alan Cowell from London.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon's top two officials said Wednesday that President Obama had asked for preliminary military options to respond to the increasingly violent Syria conflict, but they emphasized the risks and said that the administration still believed that diplomatic and economic pressure was the best way to protect Syrians from the Assad government's repression.
The appraisal by Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, in Senate testimony, reflected increased concern about the year-old uprising in Syria, in which more than 7,500 people have been killed, according to United Nations estimates. Their comments also reflected the politicization of the Syria conflict in the United States during a presidential election year. Mr. Obama, who ended the war in Iraq and is moving to do the same in Afghanistan, has expressed reluctance to enter a new military conflict and characterized statements by his Republican adversaries as hawkish. 
General Dempsey and Mr. Panetta spoke two days after Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who lost to Mr. Obama in 2008, became the first senator to call for American airstrikes on Syria as ''the only realistic way'' to stop what he called a slaughter there. Both General Dempsey and Mr. Panetta faced sharp questions during their testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee from Mr. McCain, who is the panel's ranking Republican.
Their exchanges came as the conflict in Syria took some striking new turns. The United Nations' top relief official, Valerie Amos, visited the ravaged Syrian city of Homs -- the first inspection there by an independent outside observer since President Bashar al-Assad ordered a military assault of the city's armed resistance more than a month ago. Syrian activist groups reported ominous signs on Wednesday that Mr. Assad's forces would now direct their campaign northward to Idlib Province, where the Free Syrian Army, a group composed mostly of army defectors, is challenging his authority.
General Dempsey told senators that the options under review included humanitarian airlifts, naval monitoring, aerial surveillance of the Syrian military and the establishment of a no-fly zone. Specifically, he said that ''the president of the United States, through the national security staff, has asked us to begin the commander's estimate,'' a term for an initial assessment of a situation and potential courses of military action.
Mr. Panetta, who spoke alongside General Dempsey, told the committee that military review was in the earliest stages. ''We have not done the detailed planning because we are waiting for the direction of the president to do that,'' he said. Modern commanders in chief have routinely asked for military options during foreign crises, and the Pentagon as part of its daily business draws up contingency plans for a wide range of potential conflicts.
Mr. Panetta and General Dempsey spent much time explaining the difficulties of military action. Mr. Panetta said intervention could expedite a civil war in the country and make an explosive situation worse. He said bluntly that the Obama administration recognized ''that there are limitations of military force, especially with U.S. boots on the ground.'' He added that ''it doesn't make sense'' for the United States to act alone, without a coalition of allies, as was the case in Libya.
Ms. Amos, the United Nations under secretary general and emergency relief coordinator, arrived in Syria for a two-day visit to assess the country's relief needs. She accompanied a team from the Syrian Arab Red Crescent into the Baba Amr neighborhood of Homs, which had suffered enormous destruction and where activists have reported hundreds of civilian deaths.
She made no statement about what she observed, but a spokeswoman at the United Nations, Amanda Pitt, said that Ms. Amos had told her via telephone that the neighborhood was ''pretty devastated,'' largely devoid of people and punctuated by occasional gunfire.
''She wanted to go to Homs and Baba Amr to try and get a sense for herself of the impact of the fighting -- and of the lack of humanitarian access -- and to get there as soon as possible,'' Ms. Pitt said in an e-mail. She said Foreign Minister Walid al-Moallem of Syria, her host, had told Ms. Amos that she ''would be able to go wherever she wanted.''
The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency made no mention of Ms. Amos's visit to Homs, but reported her arrival in Syria earlier on Wednesday and quoted Mr. Moallem as saying that the government was trying to respond to emergency civilian needs ''despite the burdens it faces because of the unfair sanctions imposed by some Arab and Western countries on Syria.''
Accounts of torture and deprivation in Homs, conveyed by fleeing civilians, have been denounced as enemy propaganda by the government of Mr. Assad, who has belittled the mass demonstrations against him and insisted that his forces have been battling foreign-backed terrorism. While China and Russia, his biggest foreign supporters, have defeated attempts by the United Nations Security Council to condemn Mr. Assad and hold him accountable, fractures have surfaced.
On Monday, Russia's prime minister and president-elect, Vladimir V. Putin, reaffirmed his support for Mr. Assad but said he did not know how much longer Mr. Assad's government would last. On Wednesday, China announced it was withdrawing most of its workers from Syria, reflecting what appeared to be declining confidence in Mr. Assad's powers of governance.
Syria's deputy oil minister, Abdo Hussameldin, announced his defection on a YouTube video, Reuters reported early Thursday, which would make him first high-ranking civilian official to abandon the Assad government since the uprising began.
The authenticity of the video, which was filmed at an undisclosed location, could not be confirmed.
''I Abdo Hussameldin, deputy oil and mineral wealth minister in Syria, announce my defection from the regime, resignation from my position and withdrawal from the Baath Party. I join the revolution of this dignified people,'' Mr. Hussameldin says in the video, which was uploaded Wednesday and seen early on Thursday.
''I say to this regime: you have inflicted on those who you claim are your people a whole year of sorrow and sadness, denying them basic life and humanity and driving Syria to the edge of the abyss,'' he says, adding that the country's economy is ''near collapse.''
Mr. Assad appointed Mr. Hussameldin, 58, to his position through a presidential decree in 2009.
Wearing a suit and tie, Mr. Hussameldin looked relaxed as he stared directly into the camera in a tight head and shoulders shot, appearing to read from a prepared statement on his lap as he sat on a dark gray chair against a yellow background.
''I have been in government for 33 years,'' he said. ''I did not want to end my career serving the crimes of this regime. I have preferred to do what is right although I know that this regime will burn my house and persecute my family.''
Public defections have remained rare among the civilian branches of the state, which Mr. Assad's opponents attribute to the tight control of the secret police and the fear of retribution against families of any would-be defectors.
In late August, the attorney general of Hama Province, Mohammad al-Bakkour, declared in a YouTube video that he had resigned in protest against the suppression of street demonstrations and the storming of the city of Hama by tanks, according to Reuters. Mr. Bakkour has not been heard from since and some opposition sources say the video was made under pressure from rebels.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Relatives at a hospital in Idlib, Syria, mourned a man who died Wednesday after being shot by a Syrian Army sniper. Some fear Syrian forces will target Idlib next.
 A boy, 12, recovered at the hospital in Idlib on Wednesday. He was thought to have been shot by an army sniper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LEON E PANETTA (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



309 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: In Athens, Austerity's Ugliness

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
ATHENS
Europe declared war on Keynes, and Keynes is winning.
In the United States, Republicans lambaste President Obama's stimulus package as a failure and insist on bone-crunching budget-cutting. If you want to know how well that works, come visit Europe -- especially Greece.
Yes, Greece needed a wake-up whack and economic reform, but Republican-style austerity knocked the patient unconscious. Contrast the still-shrinking economies of Europe with the stirrings of recovery in the United States, and you feel lucky to be an American and a beneficiary of President Obama's stimulus. 
It's stunning here in Athens to see many traffic lights not working, to see beggars pawing through garbage for food, to see blackened ruins of shops burned in rioting. I was even greeted by a homeless man who spoke impeccable British-accented English.
That man, Michael A. Kambouroglou, 35, claims that he studied English literature at Cambridge University and worked for years in the tourism industry, most recently at a five-star hotel. He told me that he had enjoyed a good life, visiting the United States and traveling around the world, until the day nearly a year ago when the collapsing economy caught up with him, and he was laid off.
''To be honest, I never thought it could come to me,'' he recalled. ''It happened in a flash.'' Kambouroglou says he goes out every morning, knocking on doors and looking for work, but in this economy it seems hopeless. The overall unemployment rate here is 21 percent -- 48 percent among young people -- and the European Union forecasts that the Greek economy (and all of the euro zone) will shrink further this year.
When Kambouroglou's savings ran out, he moved under a bridge in Athens. The suffering is widespread. Some 250,000 Greeks now receive free meals from churches or shelters, according to the Greek Orthodox Church.
There's no doubt that Greece had been living recklessly and needed structural reforms. While much of Europe was fundamentally healthy until the crisis hit -- the caricature Americans hold of a socialist Europe in decline is a vast exaggeration -- Greece truly was a mess. For example, if you're a business owner, taxation often works like this: Instead of paying a tax bill of, say, $100,000, you pay $40,000 to the state, hand a $20,000 bribe to the tax collector, and keep $40,000.
Republicans are right to see in Greece some perils of an overgenerous government: The state sector was bloated, early retirements and pensions were sometimes absurd, and rigid labor markets undermined Greece's competitiveness. But the problem was not a welfare state -- Greece has much less of a safety net than northern Europe. Rather, it was corruption, inefficiency and a system in which laws are optional.
I drove around Greece and found driving here easy because traffic rules don't seem to matter. If you're blocked by a one-way street, you barrel through in the wrong direction. Stop signs are merely suggestive. No-passing markers before blind turns mean: pass anyway, and pray. When an entire economy operates without rules, it has a problem.
Yet instead of structural reforms or improved tax collection, what has changed in Greece, so far, has mostly been slashed budgets. And, as in the rest of Europe, austerity in the middle of recession has made matters worse -- just as John Maynard Keynes predicted.
Granted, there are no easy solutions for Greece, but this path doesn't seem to be working. ''It might end up as a social revolution,'' Kambouroglou said grimly. That's too pessimistic, but my hunch is that the latest rescue package will fail (except that it will buy time, perhaps its purpose) and that Greece eventually may leave the euro zone. In any case, the rescue packages seem more about saving French and German banks than saving Greece.
Countless Greeks are giving up on their homeland and emigrating to northern Europe or Australia. Gloom is as thick as a morning fog on the Peloponnesus.
''The state has ceased functioning,'' editorialized an Athens newspaper, The Kathimerini.
That's an exaggeration, but schools, hospitals and social services are devastated. Staff at some halfway houses for the mentally ill haven't been paid for six months, and electricity has been cut off. ''And it'll get worse,'' predicted Dr. Cristos Panettas, the chief psychiatrist of the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica.
One of the earliest recorded economic crises in the Western world came in Athens in the 5th century B.C. Fortunately, Athens was then led by the great Pericles, an early Keynesian who did not respond by slashing budgets.
Instead, he ordered a public works initiative and built the Parthenon. I dropped by the Parthenon the other day, seeking inspiration, and a guide, Miranda-Maria Skiniti, was incisive about the lessons: ''We need Pericles today.''
There's ageless wisdom there for Greeks, Europeans -- and Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LODGING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RIOTS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); TAX LAW (64%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); RELIGION (61%); BRIBERY (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); EARLY RETIREMENT (60%); TOURISM (53%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012



310 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Government's Role in British Bank Creates Unease

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON - It's hard to tell sometimes who is calling the shots at the Royal Bank of Scotland: management or politicians.
When Britain bailed out the financial firm in 2008 and took a majority stake, the government promised to remain a passive investor. But some employees and analysts now say the line has blurred, as politicians push the bank to rein in executive compensation, bolster lending and limit risky businesses.
Amid a public outcry over pay, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain announced that cash bonuses at the investment banking unit would be capped this year at $:2,000, or $3,160, and that the annual payout for the bank's chief executive, Stephen Hester, should not exceed $:1 million. With anger mounting among politicians, Mr. Hester declined to take his bonus altogether.
''If you own 82 percent of a bank, the political opposition takes it as given that you should have ability to influence decisions,'' said Bruce van Saun, the bank's chief financial officer. ''From a political perspective, it makes it harder to take the ostrich view.'' 
In the current environment, banks in Europe and the United States are feeling political pressure to adjust their strategies. Government officials, facing anemic growth and high unemployment, want financial firms to increase their lending to bolster the economy. But many bank executives are looking to shrink their balance sheet and limit loans in an effort to revive profits.
The tensions are especially acute at the Royal Bank of Scotland, given that British taxpayers are liable for $:45 billion. Three years after the financial crisis, the bank remains unprofitable, even though the losses have been cut. And the stock price has been halved since the government first injected money into the struggling bank.
While the bank says management makes its own decisions and politicians insist they do not dictate strategy, the government has recently taken a more hands-on role in the bank's operations. During the bonus discussions, British treasury officials talked to the bank's executives several times a day. Each month, Mr. Hester or other top executives meet with the government-backed agency that manages the bank holding to discuss strategic initiatives, including the plan to shrink the investment banking unit. In contrast, bank executives formally meet with other shareholders just four times a year.
''Even if the management does have the final say, the government involvement is at least a distraction,'' said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers.
Last month, Britain's business secretary, Vince Cable, wrote a letter to the prime minister calling for the government to split the bank up. To help fuel the local economy, Mr. Cable recommended creating a lender focused on British businesses separate from the investment banking operation. The government should ''recognize that R.B.S. will not return to the market in its current shape,'' he wrote, according to a copy of the letter obtained by the BBC. An official at the British treasury said the government did not back a breakup, saying it would hurt taxpayers' investment in the bank.
''It's a naive view for the government to say they are like any other shareholder,'' said Peter Hahn, a fellow at Cass Business School in London. ''The government did not buy into it as an investment.''
John Hourican, the lender's head of investment banking, described the bank's relationship with the government as ''an unnatural alliance.''
The dynamic is creating confusion inside the bank.
Late last year, George Osborne, Britain's finance minister, told Parliament to expect ''significant reductions in the investment bank.'' The news shocked employees, who had not been expecting another round of layoffs.
To calm staff members, the bank sent an internal memo saying that Mr. Osborne's comments were ''unsettling'' and that ''no decisions had been taken.'' Less than a month later, the bank announced it would close the cash equities business and merger advisory division and eliminate 3,500 additional investment banking jobs.
''This was handled very poorly, and a lot of people are still upset,'' said a banker there, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to talk publicly.
Employees say morale is suffering as a result. Another London-based banker, who declined to be named because he did not want to publicly complain about his job, said his team was taunted by rivals at other firms, which escaped a government bailout. At a recent black-tie dinner in London, the banker was told - as a joke - that it was surprising to see him there given that he was on the government payroll. Other competitors asked him for their taxpayer money back.
John Purcell, who runs a financial recruitment firm in London, said some people were reacting with ''Churchillian bravery and stoicism,'' referring to Winston Churchill, who was known for his tenacity and courage during World War II. Posters with ''Keep Calm and Carry On,'' a British slogan developed in World War II, have started to appear on some employees' desks.
Mr. van Saun, the chief financial officer, said that during his meetings, many employees lament: ''I wasn't part of the problem and I feel bad about what happened, but I want to be part of the solution.''
To rally the troops, executives have been touring bank branches to explain the turnaround strategy to workers. Each quarter, Mr. Hester or another top manager also records a 25-minute video to update employees on the state of the bank. They are also tracking staff sentiment through a survey with the human resources department.
At the investment banking division, Mr. Hourican tried to restore confidence when he assembled about 150 bankers in the bank's auditorium in London's financial district. ''Let's have an honest dialogue,'' he told them. ''It can be difficult, but you guys make a difference. You make a safer and sounder bank.''
But for many employees, working at a firm that is constantly in the public focus can make it difficult to stay motivated. After glancing at the share price on his computer screens, Mr. Hourican said that when it came to the Royal Bank of Scotland, success could not just be measured in numbers.
''I'd like to see the shareholding change,'' he said. ''That would be a success.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about the growing role of the British government in the management of Royal Bank of Scotland, in which it took a majority stake as part of a 2008 bailout, referred incorrectly to the slogan on a poster that some bank employees have displayed on their desk. ''Keep Calm and Carry On'' was printed on a poster developed in 1939 for distribution in the event of a Nazi invasion of Britain. Only a few were ever distributed; it was not ''Britain's World War II slogan.'' (An original copy of the poster surfaced in 2000 and reproductions became popular.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Hester, Royal Bank of Scotland chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN STILLWELL/PRESS ASSOCIATION) (B1)
At the Royal Bank of Scotland's headquarters in Edinburgh. Britain bailed out the financial firm in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF J MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES)
 Prime Minister David Cameron sought to rein in pay at the bank. (POOL PHOTO BY STEFAN ROUSSEAU) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); HARGREAVES LANSDOWN PLC (61%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); HL (LSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (90%); STEPHEN HESTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (58%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



311 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Din Drowns Out Palestinians

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
RAMALLAH, West Bank -- In the 14 months since revolution has spread across the Middle East and tension has soared over Iran's nuclear program, the Palestinian leadership has found itself orphaned. Politically divided, its peace talks with Israel collapsed and its foreign support waning, the Palestinian Authority is sidelined, confused and worried that its people may return to violence.
''The biggest challenge we face -- apart from occupation -- is marginalization,'' Salam Fayyad, prime minister of the Palestinian Authority, said in an interview. ''This is a direct consequence of the Arab Spring where people are preoccupied with their own domestic affairs. The United States is in an election year and has economic problems, Europe has its worries. We're in a corner.''
For decades, as autocrats ruled their neighbors, the Palestinians were at the center of Middle Eastern politics, their struggle with Israeli occupation embodying the Arab longing for post-colonial freedom and dignity. The Obama administration came into office asserting that a state in the West Bank and Gaza was the key to regional progress. 
But when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel visited Washington this week, the conversation was dominated by Iran, not peace talks or occupation.
In the region, the Arab Spring may have increased popular attention to the Palestinian cause, freeing Egyptians and others to express anti-Israel sentiments. But that has actually made things harder on the Palestine Liberation Organization, which negotiated with Israel. Popular affection has shifted to the Islamists of Hamas. They too have difficulties, however, abandoning their political headquarters in Syria, facing reduced help from Iran and contending with their increased divisions.
The result is a serial splintering of the Palestinian movement, a loss of state sponsors and paralysis for those trying to build a state next to Israel. Just six months ago, there was a moment of optimism when the Palestinian Authority presented its case for recognition to the United Nations, and later when Hamas closed a deal to free hundreds of its prisoners in exchange for the release of an Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit.
But now, as momentum for a peaceful two-state solution fades, and the effort at the United Nations remains stymied, no viable alternatives have emerged and attention has focused on other conflicts.
Zakaria al-Qaq, a Palestinian expert in national security at Al Quds University in Jerusalem, said he recently joined dozens of other foreign scholars for a series of lectures on his specialty in the United States. Not a single one mentioned the Palestinian issue.
''I don't see Palestine on the agenda of the United States or Israel,'' he said. ''It is on the shelf. The Palestinians don't have the ability to impose themselves on the world and they can't mobilize their people. The Arab world is busy. The Palestinians are becoming secondary.''
President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, known for indecisiveness, seems especially torn on how to proceed. He and his lieutenants have been working for weeks on a multipage letter to Prime Minister Netanyahu, laying out all the reasons they believe that Israel has stood in the way of peaceful progress.
He plans to deliver a copy to American and European leaders as well, explaining why he thinks he must abandon the Israeli peace track and reconsider the Palestinian Authority's relationship with Israel. And while diplomats are sympathetic with his frustration over Israel's refusal to stop settlement building in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, they suspect that Mr. Abbas, known as Abu Mazen, feels politically unable to compromise with Israel at this time of upheaval.
''The political price Abu Mazen pays for being in negotiations with Netanyahu is too high right now,'' a top Western diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''People in this region believe that you are either protesting or being protested against. He has decided it is better to protest.''
The problem is not only a Palestinian one, however. Mr. Netanyahu's government and its supporters also say that the regional tumult makes it harder for them to yield territory.
''Israelis have always been concerned that if they make difficult and strategic concession in the peace process, what will happen if the regimes with which they signed an agreement are overthrown?'' noted Dore Gold, president of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs and a longtime adviser to Mr. Netanyahu.
''Israel has to be extremely cautious and ratchet up its security concerns. Will the Palestinian Authority be the Palestinian Authority one year from now? When European diplomats come to Israel and ask it for new territorial concessions, it is like asking us to put up a tent in the middle of a hurricane.''
Others argue that as Palestinian frustration grows the chance of an explosion in the West Bank increases. Rock throwing and confrontations with Israeli troops have picked up in recent months.
''We don't want to be employees of the occupation,'' Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, said in an interview. ''Israel has left the Palestinian Authority with responsibility but no power. At the same time, Israel has gotten the international community to pay the bill. It has a cushy occupation.''
The end of the Israeli track has pushed Mr. Abbas to pursue reconciliation with Hamas. But that too has faltered. Announced in a flourish last May, the plan for a unity government that would ready the Palestinians for elections has stalled largely over internal Hamas divisions on the plan.
Khaled Meshal, the political chief of Hamas who was based in Syria, agreed that Mr. Abbas would become the prime minister in the interim government. But his colleagues in Gaza objected to the way he negotiated without consultation. There are divisions among them and within the military wing of Hamas. Few Palestinians believe that elections are imminent; many suspect that they are a long way off.
Meanwhile, the distractions in the Arab world along with Israeli maneuvers have contributed to a worsening fiscal crisis for the Palestinian Authority even as the private sector here builds a modern infrastructure, creating a small but impressive business class.
Economic growth for the West Bank, which from 2008 to 2010 averaged 10 percent, slowed to 5.7 percent in 2011 with unemployment remaining at 17 percent, said Oussama Kanaan, of the International Monetary Fund. Last year, Arab countries together gave only $340 million to the Palestinian Authority, leaving it with $200 million less than expected.
The authority has been unable to pay its debts to private companies and the public pension fund, leaving it about $500 million in arrears, in addition to its debt of $1.1 billion to private banks.
Agreements between the Palestinian and Israeli finance ministries to improve Palestinian revenue collection have not been carried out because the Israeli government has not signed off. Prime Minister Fayyad said that unless those measures went into effect, he might not attend a donors conference planned for Brussels this month.
At the same time, Israeli troops have stepped up their nighttime raids on West Bank cities, recently shutting down two television stations and contributing to the sense of impotence.
''We need attention to our finances, our security and to the violence from the Israeli Army,'' Mr. Fayyad said. ''What the army has been doing is both wrong and dangerous. It makes us look like a weak authority. They don't know when there will be one incident too many, when things will simply spin out of control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Israeli soldiers fired at Palestinian stone throwers in the West Bank town of Al Ram, near East Jerusalem, last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABBAS MOMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
A Palestinian protester threw stones at Israeli forces in the West Bank town of Al Ram, near East Jerusalem, last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMAD TOROKMAN/REUTERS)
 The Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, in Ramallah on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATEF SAFADI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HAMAS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



312 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Perella Weinberg Founder Confident Deal-Making Will Return

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Speaking at Tulane University's Corporate Law Institute, Peter A. Weinberg said he and his firm believed that the assorted deal makers gathered here might not need to worry about the current stagnation of the mergers market. 

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- There is plenty of cause for concern about a moribund deal market. But one of the co-founders of the boutique investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners says he thinks there is enough evidence to think mergers will come back.
Speaking at Tulane University's Corporate Law Institute, Peter A. Weinberg said that he and his firm believed the assorted deal makers gathered here might not need to worry about the current stagnation of the mergers market. At least, not for a couple of years.
Most deal makers, by nature and profession, are optimists. But that attitude has been a little tough to maintain, given the current snail's pace of deal-making: the number of transactions announced in February was the lowest in a month since November 2003, according to Thomson Reuters.
Mr. Weinberg acknowledged several factors that might lead people to believe that would continue, including a potentially sluggish economic growth environment in the United States. And in his argument, he said that he was not predicting "barn-burner" growth.
All the same, however, he argued that shareholders of American companies would demand growth. These companies have the resources -- especially cash -- to make transactions. And over all, corporate chieftains and boards are feeling more confident.
Those factors, said Mr. Weinberg, should lead to two to three years of a rising deal tide. American companies will likely buy not only cheap European targets, but also expensive ones in emerging markets, all in the name of generating more growth. Domestic mergers will continue as well, he said, mostly to consolidate many industries.
But the boom may not last too long, he cautioned. An overabundance of buying on the cheap in Europe may lead to a backlash, while integrating emerging market companies may be more difficult than expected.
Furthermore, companies may decide that some mergers may not be worth the cost, compared with simpler moves like stock buybacks.
Quoting an unnamed partner, Mr. Weinberg chuckled, "Optimism is a telltale sign of hopeless navet."

        
In Latest Deals, Big Roles for Boutique Investment Banks
        
Sidney Weinberg Jr. and the End of an Era

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MERGERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (66%); DIVESTITURES (66%) Perella Weinberg Partners; Peter A. Weinberg; Tulane University's Corporate Law Institute; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Tulane University; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%) Perella Weinberg Partners; Tulane University

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



313 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Giving Some Muscle to a Growing Fitness Trend

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: While many workout fads have been relegated to VHS tapes, two big investors have poured tens of millions of dollars into Zumba Fitness, a Latin American dance-based workout. 

 BODY:
Once the fitness craze was Richard Simmons's "Sweatin' to the Oldies." Then, other workouts like Billy Blanks's Tae Bo caught on.
But while many fads have been relegated to VHS tapes in the attic, two big investors are betting that Zumba Fitness, the Latin American dance-based workout, will have staying power. Insight Venture Partners, a New York-based venture capital firm, and the Raine Group, a media and entertainment investment firm, have poured tens of millions of dollars into the fitness company, a deal that values Zumba Fitness, based in Florida, at more than $500 million, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
"Zumba owns its category," said Jeff Horing, a partner at Insight. "The ones that have done well, have done reasonably well, but none have Zumba's scale."
 Developed in the 1990s, Zumba has become a breakout hit in recent years. Now, the creators are capitalizing on the craze with media, merchandise and licensing deals.
More than 100,000 instructors, spread across 125 countries, each pay $30 a month to be part of the company's official network, giving them access to new music and choreography. Since 2002, the company has sold more than 10 million instructional tapes and DVDs. The Zumba video game, available on the Nintendo Wii and the Xbox Kinect, has sold more than six million copies. For the devoted, the company also has a line of fluorescent-colored apparel and footwear, with sneakers starting at $75.
The Raine Group, which is backed by Ari Emanuel, the influential chief executive of William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, plans to use its extensive contacts in Asia and the Middle East to expand the brand internationally. In the United States, the company is surveying potential partnerships with television executives and considering developing a regular show around Zumba. It's also preparing to offer its first smartphone app to help students and instructors communicate.
"Zumba is not just a participatory sport, it's an entertainment brand," said Joseph Ravitch, a co-founder of the Raine Group. "Zumba has television, apparel and international opportunities that are underdeveloped."
Zumba Fitness started by accident more than two decades ago, when Alberto Perez, a dance instructor, forgot music for his aerobics class. Forced to wing it, he used tapes from his personal collection, a hodgepodge of salsa and merengue songs and created dance moves to the rhythms. The workout was a local hit, gaining popularity in Cali, Colombia, before Mr. Perez decamped to Miami in 1999.
In 2001, he met Alberto Perlman, then an unemployed technology entrepreneur still reeling from the dot-com bust. Mr. Perlman's mother, who was taking a class with Mr. Perez, prodded her son to meet with her "magical" instructor.
At first, Mr. Perlman wasn't sure what to make of the dancer, who could not speak English and showed up to the meeting in a broken-down 1983 Pontiac. But after watching a class, Mr. Perlman imagined the fitness program, which resembled an ad hoc dance party with catchy music, as the next infomercial hit. He immediately called his longtime friend and business partner, Alberto Aghion, who had heard about Mr. Perez through his sister.
"I felt like I was looking into the window of a nightclub," said Mr. Perlman, now the chief executive of Zumba Fitness. "This guy had taken the experience of Saturday night and turned it into a fitness class on Monday night."
Later that year, the three men founded Zumba Fitness. The company's initial goal was to make money by selling instructional videos via low-budget infomercials. But Zumba's popularity skyrocketed when it began building a network of instructors a few years later. Over the last four years, the number of weekly Zumba students has surged to 12 million from 1 million, according to data from the company.
Zumba Fitness derives a large amount of revenue from the membership fees it charges fitness instructors. Edmee Cherdieu D'Alexis, a former Equinox fitness manager, built an entire business based on Zumba's brand. Her start-up, Z Club NY, connects Manhattanites with Zumba classes and instructors through an online portal. The company rents locations, manages an elite group of vetted instructors and charges students $19 a class, offering discounts for larger packages.
To build the business, Ms. D'Alexis, who received $100,000 in seed capital, has relied mainly on word-of-mouth marketing and online offers at sites like Groupon. Started in 2011, the club now attracts 1,400 people a month.
"Eight months ago, we were not covering expenses, but now we are," Ms. D'Alexis said.
But the exercise trend shows signs of saturation in some markets. In New York alone, there are more than 500 licensed instructors, according to Zumba's Web site. The competency of the instructors can also vary widely. While many of Z Club NY's teachers have years of formal dance training, Zumba Fitness requires instructors only to attend an eight-hour training session to obtain a license.
Zumba's meteoric rise has also created considerable challenges for the company. Counterfeiters have been selling Zumba apparel and pirated DVDs not licensed by Zumba Fitness. In one raid in Britain last year, the company discovered thousands of counterfeit goods worth roughly $1.5 million. Zumba Fitness now has a legal department of 10 people, roughly 5 percent of its total staff, focused on stamping out copyright violations and pursuing instructors who are using the brand without official licenses.
If Zumba becomes more than a fad, it will be in the minority. Many fitness programs flame out after a few years. Tae Bo, a workout that combines tae kwon do and boxing, was huge in the 1990s. Now you can buy the workout tapes for as little as $1.99 on Amazon.
Zumba Fitness hopes to avoid the same fate by exploring new lines of business. It is creating a concert program, which will pair live music and Zumba instruction. It has already organized one-time fitness events featuring contemporary artists like Pit Bull and Wyclef Jean.
For now, momentum is on Zumba's side. Its official Facebook page has attracted more than 3.4 million "likes" and fans include Michelle Obama and the singer Jennifer Lopez.
"Zumba is more than a fitness program; it's representative of a whole lifestyle and attitude," Mr. Ravitch said. "Zumba is for dance fitness what Starbucks is for coffee."

        
Companies Play for Laughs in Press Releases
        
Raine Group Ramps Up

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (92%); TRENDS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); FOOTWEAR (77%); DANCERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (52%) Alberto Aghion; Alberto Perez; Alberto Perlman; Ari Emanuel; Insight Venture Partners; Raine Group; Zumba; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Venture Capital

COMPANY: INSIGHT VENTURE PARTNERS (57%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); COLOMBIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



314 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Activist Investor Charts Plan to Revitalize Yahoo

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: After spending years working behind the scenes to push for change, Daniel S. Loeb, a hedge fund manager, is once again openly admonishing management and battling a corporate board. The target: Yahoo. 

 BODY:
Daniel S. Loeb is getting back into the activist arena.
After spending years working behind the scenes to push for change, the hedge fund manager is once again openly admonishing management and battling a corporate board. The target: Yahoo.
His firm, Third Point, has amassed a 6 percent stake in the struggling Internet company, and he intends to propose a slate of four directors, including himself, at the company's annual meeting. He has also sketched out a turnaround strategy for Yahoo that does not necessarily match management's vision.
It's his first real activist campaign in nearly five years.
"He acts in our interest," said Robert L. Chapman Jr., the founder of Chapman Capital, which owns a 2 percent stake in Yahoo. "Because if the stock tanks, no one gets hurt more than Dan."
Yahoo is paying attention. In February, a month after being named chief executive, Scott Thompson called Mr. Loeb, according to people with knowledge of the matter. They have spoken several times since then, discussing Yahoo's relationship with advertisers, the display advertising business and other strategic issues.
But tensions are rising. Despite the overtures, Yahoo is not ready to capitulate to Mr. Loeb's demands. Directors have called Mr. Loeb's candidates, but the interviews were interpreted as brief and perfunctory, according to people close to Mr. Loeb.
In early February, Yahoo named two new directors with no advertising experience. The hedge fund manager interpreted the action as a move away from Yahoo's primary business. In a recent filing, he said it reflects the "dearth of essential expertise in media and entertainment at the board level."
Mr. Loeb was also concerned about Yahoo's recent threat of legal action against Facebook over patents, according to the people.
It's familiar territory for Mr. Loeb, who now oversees $8.9 billion. A former Citigroup vice president, he founded Third Point in 1995, developing his own brand of activism. Known for his sharp pen and his acerbic wit, he agitated change at several companies, including Agribrands, the animal feed maker, and Massey Energy, the coal mining company. In a 2005 letter to Star Gas Partners, a fuel distributor, Mr. Loeb called its chief, Irik P. Sevin, "one of the most dangerous and incompetent executives in America." Mr. Sevin resigned shortly after that letter.
As Third Point has grown, Mr. Loeb has toned down his rhetoric. Since the financial crisis, he has largely focused on reorganization opportunities, like Delphi Automotive, the auto parts maker, and chemicals giant LyondellBasell Industries, both of which have emerged from bankruptcy in recent years.
Then in the middle of 2011, he started to amass a large stake in Yahoo. At first, it was a pure valuation play. The stock was then trading at $11, roughly a third of the value of Microsoft's ill-fated bid for Yahoo in 2008.
After a series of perceived missteps by the board - in particular the way the co-founder Jerry Yang courted private equity suitors - Mr. Loeb decided to take a more aggressive posture. He now owns more than $1 billion worth of Yahoo stock.
His campaign comes as his personal interest in technology grows. The hedge fund manager - a technology neophyte who bought his first iPhone last year - adopted up-and-coming mobile applications, like Instagram, the photo-sharing service.
Last summer, Mr. Loeb was surprised to discover that someone had adopted his persona on Twitter under the handle "danloeb" Disappointed that the fake Mr. Loeb's postings were not witty, he reported the incident to Twitter, according to people close to him. The person switched the handle to "notdanloeb."
Mr. Loeb has also made frequent trips to Silicon Valley. He sought advice from - and at times courted as board candidates - notable names, like Marc Andreessen, the head of the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz; Mary Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley star analyst who now works at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; and Daniel Rosensweig, the former chief operating officer of Yahoo and current head of Chegg.
Over the last few months, Mr. Loeb has been devising a strategy for Yahoo. He believes it should focus on its core media and advertising business, according to the people close to him.
The crux of Mr. Loeb's frustrations, according to Third Point's filings, is his lack of confidence in the board's ability to grow Yahoo's ad sales. While the Internet company remains one of the most popular portals on the Web, it is ceding market share to rivals Facebook and Google.
To help make up ground, Mr. Loeb is calling for Yahoo to focus on the search ad businesses and to develop a social community and a robust, video platform. In a presentation to Yahoo Mr. Loeb described his proposed candidates, highlighting one, Jeff Zucker, the former chief of NBCUniversal, for his role in building Hulu, which the hedge fund manager sees as a potentially attractive partner or target for Yahoo.
Similarly, Mr. Loeb said he picked another candidate, Michael J. Wolf, the founder of Activate, a media consulting firm, because of his media and technology contacts and his reputation as a "talent spotter."
"Yahoo has some 700 million visitors per month," said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Company. "It's a matter of figuring out how to properly monetize them."
Mr. Loeb has also indicated that Yahoo needs to be aggressive in its cost-cutting, including reducing its payroll of 14,100. .
Yahoo, which recently hired the Boston Consulting Group to review its operations, is in the process of culling its staff, two people with knowledge of the situation said.
The final board candidate, Harry Wilson, a turnaround specialist, was one of the architects of the restructuring plan for General Motors.
Mr. Loeb said the G.M. "process is directly relevant to Yahoo," according to documents ThirdPoint sent to Yahoo's board.
In some ways, Mr. Loeb's vision runs counter to the new chief, Mr. Thompson. The former president of Paypal, Mr. Thompson has expressed a desire to push Yahoo into new businesses, while Mr. Loeb wants to stay focused on its media business. "We need to innovate and disrupt, and not just in the areas where we've always been," Mr. Thompson said in a recent conference call.
 "Yahoo needs to decide: Does it want to be a media company with a digital front end or a technology company that has an advertising business?" said Jordan Rohan, a Stifel Nicolaus analyst. "In other words, are they competing against Google, Apple and Facebook, or media companies?"
With Yahoo management and Mr. Loeb at odds, a bitter proxy fight may be inevitable. But given the high rate of defections and complaints of low morale, some wonder whether another public brawl will do more damage than good - and hurt Mr. Loeb's investment in the end.
"The worst thing for Yahoo is to have more fights," said Martin Sorrell, the head of WPP, the giant advertising agency.

        
Deal Makers Soak Up Sun Valley
        
Yahoo's Jerry Yang Resigns From Board

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (60%); CHEMICALS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); LIVESTOCK FEED (50%); COAL MINING (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); ANIMAL FOODS (50%) daniel loeb; Google; Hulu; Jerry Yang; Microsoft; Roy Bostock; Yahoo; Loeb, Daniel S; Hedge Funds; Yahoo! Inc; Yahoo! Inc|YHOO|NASDAQ; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); STAR GAS PARTNERS LP (52%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (52%); MASSEY ENERGY CO (52%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE PLC (51%); LYONDELLBASELL INDUSTRIES NV (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Yahoo! Inc

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); SGU (NYSE) (52%); ANR (NYSE) (52%); FLR (FRA) (52%); DLPH (NYSE) (51%); LYB (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%) Yahoo! Inc; YHOO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (52%); SIC5984 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (52%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (52%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (52%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JERRY YANG (57%); ROY J BOSTOCK (57%); SCOTT L THOMPSON (52%) Loeb, Daniel S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



315 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Options for Paying Your Taxes Late or in Installments

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: If you can't pay your federal taxes, you may be able to get an extension or pay on an installment plan. 

 BODY:
Say you've filled out your tax return, and discovered some bad news: you owe money. But suppose you can't afford to pay the bill.
What should you do?
Some people may try to ignore the problem and hope that the Internal Revenue Service doesn't notice. That is rarely a good idea, said Gregg Wind, a certified public accountant in Los Angeles. The I.R.S. isn't going away, and neither is your bill -- and it will only get worse if you ignore it, since the I.R.S. will add penalty fees and interest to what you owe.
This year, the I.R.S. is giving a break to those who were jobless. If you were unemployed for at least 30 straight days in 2011 (or in 2012, up to the the tax filing deadline on April 17), you can request a six-month extension to pay this year's tax bill without being charged a late-payment penalty (although you'll still be charged interest, currently 3 percent on an annual basis). To take advantage of the grace period and avoid paying your taxes until Oct. 15, you must file Form 1127.
If you don't qualify for the unemployment extension, there are still other options, like offering to pay the bill over time. "The I.R.S. is pretty agreeable to things like installment agreements," Mr. Wind said. The agency can have the funds automatically withdrawn from your bank account, or you can pay through a payroll deduction. There is a fee to set up the installment plan, which varies depending on your income and on the method of payment.
Meanwhile, the I.R.S. recently announced changes to make it easier for people to catch up on back taxes through installment plans, without submitting extra paperwork. Now, you don't have to submit extra documentation unless you owe more than $50,000, up from $25,000 previously.
If you think installments won't help -- you simply won't have the money to pay the bill in the foreseeable future -- you can try what's called an "offer in compromise," or a negotiated settlement. To do this, you make an offer to pay a lesser amount by submitting a proposal on Form 656. If you owe, say, $5,000, Mr. Wind said, you can ask the I.R.S.: " Will you take $1,000?"
There's no guarantee that the I.R.S. will accept your offer, and there are lots of forms, financial statements and other paperwork to file, so the I.R.S. can evaluate whether your offer is reasonable. There's also a $150 fee to apply.
If you think you'll have the money relatively soon, but you're just short on cash at tax time, you may want to pay what you can spare when you file the return, and wait for the I.R.S. to bill you for the rest, suggests the the accounting group, the California Society of CPAs. That will show good will on your part, and reduce penalties and interest, too. Then, if you have enough cash to pay the balance when the I.R.S. bills you -- typically, in about 45 days -- you can pay it at that time. This approach, however, adds interest and penalties, which increases the amount you owe.
Have you ever sought an installment agreement, or an offer in compromise, to pay your taxes?

        
How to Manage a Windfall, and Other Wealth Tips
        
I.R.S. Offers Tool on Repayment of Home Buyer Tax Credit
        
After This Year, No More Tax Refund Loans
        
I.R.S. Denied Lesbians Legitimate Adoption Credit
        
Why You Don't Have the Commuter Tax Break

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%) Taxes; Accounting and Accountants; Federal Taxes (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Internal Revenue Service

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



316 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Unseen Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Here 's some motoring news from around the Web. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 To promote its F-Cell technology, Mercedes-Benz recently cloaked its B-Class hatchback with sheets of LEDs that relayed images of passing scenery captured by a camera mounted to the vehicle, creating the illusion of invisibility. The promotion was intended to highlight the brand's zero-emissions hydrogen fuel-cell technology, a program championed by Mercedes chief executive Dieter Zetsche. (Mercedes-Benz, via YouTube)
 Toyota Motor Sales USA announced the appointment Wednesday of Jim Lentz, the company's president and chief of operations, as its new chief executive. Mr. Lentz, whose appointment is effective April 1, is the first American to hold the position. (Toyota)
Nascar Sprint Cup drivers Regan Smith and Paul Menard were reported uninjured after Smith, driving a pickup truck near his mountain home in Evergreen, Colo., reportedly lost traction on a patch of ice and crashed into trees. On his Twitter account, Smith wrote, "Thank you to everybody for the well wishes, everybody is doing fine, shaken up but healthy." (Associated Press, via The Washington Post)
 Carbon Motors, the Indiana-based manufacturer that applied for an Energy Department loan to help develop the E7, a purpose-built police cruiser, was denied the loan this week. Carbon had applied for financing under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing program, the same loan program that recently rejected the application of Bright Automotive, which prompted the company to announce a cease of operations. Carbon executives said they would continue trying to secure financing from other sources. (LeftLaneNews.com)
 Ford announced this week that the Transit, scheduled to replace the E-Series, or Econoline, in 2013 as the automaker's commercial van offering, is to be offered with an optional 3.5-liter EcoBoost V-6 engine. The power plant is widely available throughout Ford's product line, including with the Taurus SHO, Flex and F-150. (Ford)

        
Wheelies: The Skunkworks Edition
        
Waving Goodbye to Carburetors, Nascar Prepares Switch to Fuel Injection
        
G.M., Ford and Kia Lead Nominees for Car of the Year
        
Monday Motorsports: Edwards and Stewart Enter Sprint Cup Finale In Virtual Dead Heat
        
Monday Motorsports: Marco Simoncelli, 24, Dies After Crash at Malaysian Grand Prix

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); NASCAR RACING (88%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%) Aptera; Bright Automotive; Carbon Motors; daimler; Department of Energy; EcoBoost; Ford; fuel cells; Mercedes-Benz; Nascar; Paul Menard; Porsche; Regan Smith; Sprint Cup; Toyota; transit; Automobiles; Bright Automotive Inc; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corporation; Ford Motor Co|F|NYSE; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE; Industry News; Motorsports; New Cars; Technology

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (57%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bright Automotive Inc; Ford Motor Co; Mercedes-Benz; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); WPO (NYSE) (55%) Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Ford Motor Co; F; NYSE; Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



317 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: The Koch Brothers, the Cato Institute and Why Nations Fail

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Whether the United States is resilient enough to overcome or undo the enormous power of the wealthy over its institutions is a matter of debate, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
A dispute has broken out between the Cato Institute, a leading libertarian think tank, and two of its longtime backers - David and Charles Koch. The institute is not the usual form of nonprofit but actually a company with shares; the Koch brothers own two of the four shares and are arguing that they have the right to acquire additional shares and thus presumably exert more control. The institute and some of its senior staff members are pushing back.
According to Edward H. Crane, the president and co-founder of Cato, "This is an effort by the Kochs to turn the Cato Institute into some sort of auxiliary for the G.O.P." Bob Levy, chairman of the Cato board, told David Weigel of Slate: "We would take closer marching orders. That's totally contrary to what we perceive the function of Cato to be."
Far from being just an unseemly row between prominent personalities on the right, this showdown reflects a much deeper set of concerns for American politics and society. And it raises what I regard as the central question of an important book, "Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity and Poverty," by Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson, which will be published on March 20.

Professors Acemoglu and Robinson assert that "institutions," by which they mean the rule of law and constraints on government power, are critical to economic development - having great influence on which countries become rich and stay that way, and which countries over the last 200 years have failed to grow or collapsed into civil disorder. (Disclosure: I have done a great deal of joint research with Professors Acemoglu and Robinson, but I wasn't involved in writing this book.)
At one level, the Acemoglu and Robinson argument lines up well with the standard Cato Institute - and libertarian - view of the world. At the back of Cato publications is the statement, "In order to maintain its independence, the Cato Institute accepts no government funding." Without question, excessive power in the hands of governments can be bad for economic growth.
But the Acemoglu and Robinson point is not just about how things may become awful when the government goes off track (a right-wing point). They are also more deeply concerned about how powerful people fight to grab control of the state and otherwise compete to exert influence over the rest of society (a left-wing perspective).
The outcome to fear is some form of "extractive institutions," meaning a setup in which most of society is pressed down by working arrangements - e.g., various forms of forced labor - or civil disorder or a more general lack of property rights. They provide many historical and contemporary examples of what this means in their book (and you can see previews of some items, nicely illustrated with photos, on their blog). 
"Secure property rights" is a key term for the Cato Institute and others on the right of the American political spectrum - nothing could be more important to a libertarian. But Professors Acemoglu and Robinson trace the development of such property rights in detail to the spread of political rights across a broad cross-section of society, including to people who are not (or do not start their lives among) the well-to-do. 
In historical terms, Professors Acemoglu and Robinson see the progressive era at the beginning of the 20th century, including the development of countervailing power for the government against powerful private business interests, as an essential part of what has gone right in the United States of America. 
Many libertarians, on the contrary, feel that the country started to go off track at exactly this moment - for example, some blame the 16th Amendment (introducing the federal income tax in 1913), while others point the finger at the rise of social insurance programs (culminating in Social Security in the 1930s).
Libertarians, such as those who work at the Cato Institute, do not like the state and do not trust the federal government. The Acemoglu-Robinson view is much more nuanced: states are often captured by powerful elites and very much used as a tool of oppression, but it is also possible for liberal democracies to develop in which the government not only helps people but also behaves in a way that is conducive to widely shared economic prosperity.
In this context, the Koch brothers are an important topic of discussion - or cause for concern. In the new Bloomberg billionaire index, released this week, the Koch brothers are each worth $33.5 billion. If they choose to act together, as they often seem to, including in the case of Cato, they are the richest pair in the world.
Professor Acemoglu is concerned about the Kochs' well-organized attempts to exert sway over American politics (e.g., through Americans for Prosperity and its affiliated organizations). But he feels that American democracy is sufficiently strong and will prevail. If he is right, the Koch brothers are unlikely to end up calling the shots as corporate titans did in the Gilded Age at the end of the 19th century (the term was coined in "The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today," by Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner, in 1873).
The Acemoglu-Robinson book is ultimately upbeat about the United States. We have built strong economic and political institutions, and these will prevail.
I'm not so sanguine. Partly this is because of my work on the rise and continuing power of big banks (including my 2010 book with James Kwak, "13 Bankers"). It's also because of my more recent work on the history and likely future of the federal government budget - and the national debt. The interests that would undermine government are strong and growing stronger, with rich individuals leading the charge.
Professor Acemoglu feels that a new progressive era will soon be upon us and corporate power will end up curtailed. I'm surveying the political landscape closely for anyone who can play the role of Teddy Roosevelt, using legal tools to break monopoly "trusts" and shifting the mainstream consensus decisively toward imposing constraints on the abuse of power by powerful individuals. 
So far, I see no one truly in the Roosevelt tradition with a realistic chance of election, while the rich become more powerful and the powerful become even richer.
Professor Acemoglu and I are debating this and putting forward our competing views of the latest events, on Twitter at present. He's @WhyNationsFail and I'm @baselinescene. Join us there to continue the conversation.

        
Republicans and Fiscal Responsibility
        
Progress on Letting Big Banks Fail
        
Could Huntsman and the Democrats Ally on Bank Reform?
        
Ron Paul and the Banks
        
No One Is Above the Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%) Daily Economist; Koch; libertarianism; politics; Republicans; Simon Johnson; Koch, Charles G; Libertarianism (US Politics); Cato Institute; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (94%) Cato Institute

PERSON: Koch, Charles G

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



318 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Labor Force Comeback

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: The strengthening recovery has reignited a long-running debate about how many workers who stopped seeking jobs will start looking again. 

 BODY:
How big should the American labor force be? 
It seems like an arcane academic question. But it is at the heart of whether the unemployment rate will fall in the February jobs report to be released Friday morning and, more important, whether it will keep on dropping throughout the year. 
Here is the issue: During the recession and the sluggish start to the recovery, companies laid off workers and froze hiring, driving the unemployment rate up. Hundreds of thousands of workers chose not to enter the job market or, discouraged, abandoned it. Older workers figured they might as well retire. Newly minted college graduates decided to get additional degrees rather than fight for low-wage jobs and live in their parents' basements. Workers who exhausted their 99 weeks of jobless benefits just gave up looking. Thus, the labor force participation rate - the percentage of Americans working or looking to work - has declined to its lowest level since the 1980s.
The strengthening recovery has reignited a long-running debate about how many of those workers will come back - making the participation rate and the overall number of people in the labor force interesting numbers to keep an eye on in the next few jobs reports.

Some economists argue that the unemployment rate could climb if hundreds of thousands of those workers decide the water is warm enough to re-enter. For instance, analysts at Nomura recently released a research note calculating the unemployment rate including discouraged workers, but not including workers who dropped out of the labor force to retire: 10.3 percent. (The government calculates a similar statistic, the U-4 rate, with different criteria for discouraged workers, and found it to be 8.9 percent in January, seasonally adjusted.) A faster-growing economy and lots of good economic headlines might draw those workers back, sending the unemployment rate up.
But other economists argue that the notion that the recharged economy will translate into a rising unemployment rate is nothing but a myth. That is the case made by the Dean Maki, Troy Davig and Peter Newland of Barclays Capital in a research note released last week. "Our models indicate that demographics, specifically retirements among the baby boomers, have played a larger role in pushing the labor force participation rate down than have cyclical factors," they write. "We see this trend continuing in coming years." 
The economists say that only a third of the drop in the participation rate is accounted for by people who want to work, and only about one-sixth by people of prime working age, from 25 to 54. Those people returning to the labor market won't mean an unemployment rate soaring back to 10 percent.
For what it's worth, Washington's own economists split the difference. They expect re-entrants will slow the drop in the unemployment rate. But they do not expect the participation rate to snap back to its prerecession highs as the baby boomers continue to leave the labor force in droves. 

        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Wow. But Is the Number Real?
        
Economists Take Solace (but Only a Little) in Jobs Report
        
Under Obama, a Record Decline in Government Jobs
        
Signs of Hope on Jobs, and Some Caveats

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); LABOR FORCE (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); BABY BOOMERS (70%) February 2012 jobs report; jobs; jobs report; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



319 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Inequality by County

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: New York County -- that is, Manhattan -- is the third-most economically inequitable county in the nation, according to a recent report from the Census Bureau. 

 BODY:
New York County -- that is, Manhattan -- is the third-most economically inequitable county in the United States, according to a recent report from the Census Bureau.
Using Census data from 2006 to 2010, the report looked at the Gini index -- a measure of income inequality that ranges from zero to one. A value closer to zero represents more evenly distributed incomes, whereas a value closer to one indicates that there are larger gaps between rich and poor.
The map above shows Gini indexes by county. As you can see, counties in the South generally had more inequality, while counties in the Midwest had less.
The county with the highest inequality was East Carroll Parish, La., with a Gini index value of 0.645. For comparison, the value for the United States as a whole was 0.467.
[BIO]The most equitable distribution of income was in Loving County, Tex -- the nation's least populous county, with fewer than 100 residents -- with a Gini value of 0.207.
Generally speaking, many of the counties with more equitable income distributions had small populations, or happened to be "a fast-growing county containing commuter towns within a large metropolitan area," according to the report's author, Charles Bee.
The report also included equivalent entities like parishes, independent cities and the District of Columbia.
Below are tables showing the counties with the highest and lowest Gini index values.

        
Looking at Income Class and Votes for Obama
        
The Richest Counties in America
        
The Poorest Counties of America
        
Fanning the Flames of Class Warfare
        
Tax Code Not Aligned With Basic Principles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); STATISTICS (77%); CITIES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX LAW (50%) Census Bureau; counties; Income Inequality; Census

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) Census Bureau

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



320 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: 2 Spins Offered by Latest City Jobs Data

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The economic picture in New York City seems to be improving, even though the unemployment rate rose in January. 

 BODY:
If MayorMichael R. Bloomberg were running for office again, he could use the jobs data released on Thursday to his advantage. And so could his opponents.
The negative spin would be obvious: New York City's unemployment rate rose again in January, to a 16-month high, 9.3 percent, from 9.1 percent in December. That was a full percentage point above the national rate, which fell from 8.5 percent in December. (National figures for February are to be released on Friday morning.)
But Mr. Bloomberg could parry with this: The city has been adding jobs at a faster clip than the rest of the country since the start of 2011, according to the results of a separate survey from the State Labor Department.And the gains have been coming across a spectrum of industries, including professional services and finance, education, health care and hospitality.
"Our job growth is still quite strong," said James P. Brown, principal economist with the State Labor Department. "Our industries have been performing well. They're generating jobs."
Mr. Brown said the city had rebounded from the deep recession that ended in 2009 without a lot of help from its traditional engine on Wall Street. After recent revisions to the numbers for 2011, the city's economy appears to be less reliant on the securities industry to pull it out of downturns. The data show that the job growth continued through the year even after the big investment banks and trading houses slowed their hiring and began announcing significant layoffs.
The rising unemployment rate is harder to explain, Mr. Brown said. "It's quite unusual to get strong job growth for a long period of time and not have the unemployment rate go down," he said.
The discrepancy results from the different methods of measuring job growth and unemployment. The jobs numbers are derived from a survey of employers, who report monthly changes in their payrolls. The unemployment rate is calculated from a survey of residents, asking if they were working, looking for work or doing neither in recent weeks.
Over time, the two surveys are expected to tell a similar story of growth or contraction. But from month to month, they often seem contradictory, as they do now.
The hazards of trying to measure the city's job market from month to month were illustrated by the scope of the revisions. In the latest report from the Labor Department, the total number of jobs added in the city last year was raised by 40,500, or 1.3 percent.
That change shifted the story of the city's comparative strength. No longer was job growth in the city lagging behind the gains made in the rest of the country. Now, the revised numbers show, the city's private sector gained 71,400 jobs between January 2011 and January 2012. In 2011, the growth rate for employment in the city's private sector was 2.7 percent, much higher than the national rate of 1.7 percent.
Mr. Bloomberg, not surprisingly, emphasized the jobs numbers over the unemployment rate.
"Today's report is further confirmation that, despite the challenges we face, New York City is leading the nation in terms of economic recovery," Mr. Bloomberg said. "We now know that New York City's economy has exceeded previous estimates, fared better than the country as a whole and outperformed other cities."
Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist with Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services company in Manhattan, was even more sanguine after completing her monthly calculations to adjust the data for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and firing in various industries.
According to Ms. Denham's math, the city added more than 31,000 private-sector jobs in January, one of the biggest gains of any month on record. That increase raised the total number of jobs in the city above the previous record high, set in June 1969.
"It is an understatement to say that these gains exceeded all expectations," Ms. Denham said. "Most have been concerned about Wall Street layoffs when, in reality, the industry added jobs steadily over the last two years."
Still, Mr. Brown warned that job cuts on Wall Street tend to lag behind their announcement because the companies often stretch out severance payments.
"There are still all these announced job cutbacks out there, and so presumably as we move through 2012, we will see them," Mr. Brown said. "By and large, they are not in the data yet."

        
Broadway and Morris Street, 8:19 A.M.
        
City's Jobless Rate Rises as Nation's Falls
        
City Jobless Rate Rises, Exceeding the Nation's
        
City's Unemployment Rate Stays at 8.7%
        
City Unemployment Rate Ticks Up to 8.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%) Unemployment; Bloomberg, Michael R; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; New York City; Labor

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



321 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: BNP Paribas Sells Stake in Real Estate Firm for $2 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The French bank agreed on Thursday to sell a stake in a French real estate company, Kl&#233;pierre, for $2 billion as part of its efforts to increase capital reserves. 

 BODY:
The French bank BNP Paribas agreed on Thursday to sell a stake in a French real estate company for 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) as part of the bank's efforts to increase capital reserves.
The bank, which reported a 51 percent drop in net income for the three months ended Dec. 31, will use the money to increase its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of a bank's ability to weather financial shocks.
Like other banks, BNP Paribas is looking increase its capital levels under new rules designed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in Switzerland. The French bank has said it already reached a core Tier 1 ratio of 9.2 percent under slightly different regulations created by the European Banking Authority.
As part of these efforts, BNP Paribas said it would sell a 28.7 percent stake in a local real estate company, Klpierre, to the Simon Property Group, based in Indianapolis. The American company said it would pay 28 euros for each Klpierre share, 19 percent above Klpierre's closing share price on Wednesday. The transaction is expected to close next week.
The deal is the latest by BNP Paribas, which is based in Paris, to increase its capital. On Feb. 21, BNP sold its North American energy loan business, which holds about $9.5 billion worth of financing commitments, to Wells Fargo.
Shares of BNP Paribas rose 4.6 percent in late morning trading in Paris on Thursday.
As with many of Europe's financial institutions, BNP Paribas has been hurt by the Continent's sovereign debt crisis. Its net income in the quarter ended Dec. 31 fell about 51 percent, to 765 million euros, compared with the period a year earlier.
The bank's results were hurt by a loss of 567 million euros after it marked down the value of its Greek government debt holdings by 75 percent, as well as a loss of 510 million euros on the sale of 29 percent of its overall sovereign debt holdings.

        
Wells Fargo to Buy Energy Loan Unit From BNP Paribas
        
BNP Paribas Profit Falls 51% on Greek Debt Write-Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); EURO CRISIS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (65%); DEBT CRISIS (65%) BNP Paribas; France; BNP Paribas|BNPQY|other-OTC; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (58%); KLEPIERRE SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BNP Paribas

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (92%); BNP (BIT) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); SPG (NYSE) (58%); LI (PAR) (56%) BNP Paribas; BNPQY; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (78%); FRANCE (73%); GREECE (73%) France

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



322 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: The Two Mitt Romneys

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: If Massachusetts Mitt were in the race instead of Severely Conservative Mitt, would he be doing just as well? 

 BODY:
I sometimes wish that Massachusetts Mitt were running for the Republican nomination. You know, the guy who supported the individual mandate, was not anti-abortion, and believed in global warming. Instead, we got Severely Conservative Mitt, who has dedicated himself to looking like the most right-wing candidate on stage, even if that means repudiating much of what he stood for previously.
Mr. Romney tacked right-he locked Massachusetts Mitt in the attic-because he and his advisers assumed that he could not win the Republican nomination without pandering to the party's most extreme voters. The conventional wisdom is that this was absolutely necessary. But is the conventional wisdom right?

There's room for doubt, because Severely Conservative Mitt is having trouble closing out the race.
He's not catching on in the most conservative states. He lost Iowa, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee and Oklahoma to his rivals. Over and over again, exit polls show that the right-wing of the right-wing isn't buying what Mr. Romney's selling. 
Tuesday night he barely won Ohio, scratching for every precinct in urban and suburban districts with Rick Santorum. He lost to Mr. Santorum, significantly, among voters who said they were the most conservative on social, religious and fiscal issues. 
Granted, about 30 percent of Ohio voters who called themselves "very conservative" did choose Mr. Romney-and that's not nothing. But roughly the same number of moderate and liberal voters went for Mr. Santorum. If Massachusetts Mitt were in the race instead of Severely Conservative Mitt, maybe the moderate-liberals and the very-conservatives would have switched sides, and produced the same result.
No one really Severely Conservative Mitt. Polls indicate that when voters choose him over his rivals, it's often because they think he can win in the general, not because they truly believe he's the best man for the job. Massachusetts Mitt, by contrast, might have generated actual enthusiasm among moderates. And he would have been less vulnerable to the charge that he flip-flops on important issues.
Massachusetts Mitt, at any rate, might have run a more adult campaign, one less dependent on reflexively attacking the president. At Aipac, he might have displayed dignity and maturity by admitting that he supports Mr. Obama's stringent sanctions on Iran (instead of pretending that his identical policies are radically different). He might have upbraided Rush Limbaugh for calling Sandra Fluke a slut. At the height of the birth control debate, he might have announced that reproductive matters would no longer be an issue in his campaign, since there are still 12.7 million people out of work.
It's just a fantasy, but can't a man dream?

        
Santorum's Super Tuesday Message: Romney Is a Liar
        
Romney in Ohio: Want College? Can't Afford It? Too bad.
        
The Aipac Primary
        
Super Tuesday Facebook Chat
        
Opinion Report: Super Tuesday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ABORTION (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (61%); RELIGION (51%); SUBURBS (51%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Aipac; Mitt Romney; Super Tuesday; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



323 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Democracy and Its Malcontents

BYLINE: EUSEBIUS MCKAISER


HIGHLIGHT: Is the A.N.C., that once-glorious liberation movement, now balking at meeting the standards of democratic governance it helped bring to South Africa? 

 BODY:
JOHANNESBURG - South Africa's Constitution, which was adopted in 1996, has become a proud and ambitious blueprint for this new democracy. It lays out the three levels of government - local, provincial and national - and sets out how they interrelate. It codifies a Bill of Rights that includes not just political rights but also social and economic rights, like the rights to housing, education and health care. And it enshrines the principle of separation of powers.
But now the governing African National Congress party proposes to review the work of the Constitutional Court, the Constitution's institutional custodian. A special panel will be created ostensibly to examine the court's judgments and their impact on social transformation. It may also evaluate the court's powers though the president, Jacob Zuma, and the minister of justice, Jeff Radebe, have contradicted each other on this point.

Is the A.N.C., that once-glorious liberation movement, now balking at meeting the standards of democratic governance it helped bring to South Africa?
Under the principle of "constitutional supremacy," South Africa's Constitutional Court is called on to review the laws and policies enacted by Parliament and gauge whether they are consistent with the Constitution. (In the United States, this authority is known as "judicial review" and is vested in the Supreme Court.) This system replaces the era of "parliamentary sovereignty" during apartheid, when Parliament - racist and white-nationalist - had unfettered powers.
The Constitutional Court can invalidate deficient laws and offer ways to correct them. In 2005, it struck down the country's marriage laws for preventing gay couples from wedding. So far, the court has played its role as guardian brilliantly. In one famous case, the Treatment Action Campaign succeeded in getting the court to direct the government to provide Aids drugs for all H.I.V.-positive pregnant mothers.
Little wonder, then, that slacker politicians in government get annoyed by being constitutionally monitored. Or that even as itsings the praises of constitutional supremacy, the government should now be calling for reviewing the reviewers. Though it insists that this investigative panel is simply an evaluation exercise, the minister of justice's explanation of what, exactly, it will do is as clear as mud.
President Zuma didn't help lift the confusion and the concerns last month when he called for reviewing the powers of the court but not the Constitution proper. Or when he suggested that sometimes the Constitutional Court's majority view is erroneous while the dissenting minority's is correct. That was a clear reference to a recent ruling in which a paper-thin majority of the judges ordered the state to set up an independent anticorruption unit.
Other A.N.C leaders have also grown uncomfortable with the Constitutional Court's fearless independence. Gwede Mantashe, secretary general of the A.N.C., hascalled some of the judges "counter revolutionary." This is a serious cuss in South African political parlance; it means you're an enemy of all things progressive. Last month the deputy transport minister, Jeremy Cronin, asserted, without elaborating, that "some in the Constitutional Court have been expressing privately, decidedly anti-A.N.C and anti-executive sentiments." And Deputy Minister Advocate Ngoako Ramatlhodi has questioned the Constitution itself, calling it "a compromise tilted heavily in favor of forces against change."
It's hard not to see all this inappropriate editorializing as an effort by the executive to influence a judicial institution best left to its own devices.
The A.N.C would do well to remember that the court's powers are a cornerstone of this constitutional democracy and a protection for all. And that its jurisprudence helps, rather than hinder, the march toward a just and substantively egalitarian society. In his inauguration speech in 1994, Nelson Mandela famously vowed, "Never, never and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will again experience the oppression of one by another." Keeping that promise requires politicians to stay subservient to constitutional supremacy.

        
From Rebels to Rulers
        
Welfare for Wealth
        
Not White Enough, Not Black Enough
        
Mind the U.N.-A.U. Gap
        
The Politics of Pandering in India

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COHABITATION (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); MARRIAGE LAW (66%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (64%); MARRIAGE (63%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (55%); CORRUPTION (50%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%) African National Congress; Constitutional Court; constitutions; courts; judges; justice systems; politics and government; South Africa; Zuma, Jacob G; Constitutions; Courts and the Judiciary; Politics and Government; Reform and Reorganization; Africa

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (83%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (89%) Zuma, Jacob G

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) South Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



324 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Morning Buzz, March 8: Hefty Bill for Unpaid Tolls

BYLINE: AIDAN GARDINER


HIGHLIGHT: What we're reading in The Times and elsewhere, including articles about police officers' failure to report serious crimes and a violin maker in Brooklyn. 

 BODY:
Both Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and state Republican leaders remain noticeably silent on legislation to extend financial aid to illegal immigrants so they may attend college.
During the trial to determine whether Dharun Ravi showed antigay bias when he spied on his roommate Tyler Clementi, who later killed himself, prosecutors showed a video in which Mr. Ravi admits to the police that he invaded Mr. Clementi's privacy.
Debate over an old ritual reignites when a newborn died after he contracted herpes from a rabbi during a religious circumcision. 
The beloved local news anchor Sue Simmons was forced off the air.
The chief of Newark's Federal Bureau of Investigations field office criticized the New York Police Department's surveillance of Muslims for undermining his agency's intelligence-gathering efforts within that community.
Police officers around the city routinely didn't report or misreported serious crimes including brutal beatings and muggings, according to an investigation by the department. [Village Voice]
Assemblyman Karim Camara blasted the redistricting plan put forth by the judge in charge of the process because he said it unfairly disrupted minority communities in Brooklyn. [The Empire]
Days before their full budget proposal is due, Republicans in the State Senate unveiled their plan to boost the economy through tax breaks to small businesses. [New York Post]
A recently arrested teacher's aide photographed himself molesting children in the Brooklyn elementary school where he worked, prosecutors allege. [Daily News]
The police traced a murder in Queens last Friday to a group of men responsible for a string of shootings spanning the past several months. [Times Ledger]
Over the past week, police officers investigated three packages of "suspicious powder" that turned out to be harmless, but they have yet to find a link between each case. [DNA Info]
A school teacher was arrested for trying to steal artwork that was hanging in a southbound No. 6 train, the police said. [Daily News]
Social workers are pressing for legislation that would make it a felony to harm them on the job, but lawmakers worry this could set dangerous precedent. [NBC]
The Port Authority sued a Staten Island woman for $26,664 because they claim she didn't pay tolls for the past two years. [Staten Island Advance]
With experienced hands, a Brooklyn man makes violins for some of the world's best musicians. [Gothamist]

        
Morning Buzz, March 7: A Lottery Lawsuit
        
Morning Buzz, March 5: Creating Robotic Fish
        
Morning Buzz, Feb. 24
        
Morning Buzz, Feb. 23
        
Morning Buzz, Feb. 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MURDER (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); FELONIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); RELIGION (76%); ROBBERY (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); REDISTRICTING (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); PARAEDUCATORS (70%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); MUSIC (60%); HERPES INFECTIONS (56%); SMALL BUSINESS (51%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (51%) Morning Buzz

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



325 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: The Trees Are All Right

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Romney and Santorum don't understand the real value of our nation's public land. 

 BODY:
In most of the American West, the trees are not the right height, which may frighten Mitt Romney, and some of them are so old as to challenge the biblical view of creation that Rick Santorum wants taught in schools. 
The tallest trees in the world, the coast redwoods of northern California, grow to 378 feet - more than half the size of Seattle's Space Needle. The oldest trees in the world, bristlecone pines that cling to hard ground in Nevada's Great Basin, can live for up to 5,000 years.
The saguaro cactus, with its droopy, anthropomorphic limbs, is the signature tree of the Southwest, though some say it is not technically a tree. And the western red cedar, armored in bark that Indians made into waterproof clothing, is a symbol of the Northwest. 
This arbor tutorial is prompted by the slack-jawed ignorance of the last Republicans standing in the bad-idea-fest that is their party primary. Every week, it seems, the conveyor belt of craziness serves up another archaic idea from the people who want to represent a party that claims at least 40 percent of the electorate.

Romney, of course, famously said he liked the trees of Michigan because they were "just the right height" - a bizarre and harmless pander. But last month, in a campaign swing that was overlooked by the national press, Romney told a gathering in Nevada that he wasn't much of a fan of the trees on public land - at least that was the impression he left. 
He said, "I don't know what the purpose is" of the great American public land legacy - a domain that includes 190 million acres of national forests, 52 million acres of national parks, and more than 500 million acres of open range, wildlife refuges and other turf under management of the Interior Department. 
Romney has never been much of an outdoor guy, and strikes me as the kind of person who would wear wingtips on a hike. Once, asked to give a sense of his outdoor cred, Romney said, "I've always been a rodent and rabbit hunter - small varmints, if you will." 
Had he ever taken something other than a BB gun beyond the bunny range, Romney would know that American hunters consider themselves privileged to have so much unfenced country that is theirs as a birthright of citizenship. A clueless rich man, Romney can afford the private ranches of Texas, where one-percenters chase exotic animals without breaking a sweat. 
The rest of us need our public land. The West is defined by new, fast-growing cities surrounded by the mountains, mesas, forests, sandstone spires and various shared settings. There is no other place in the world where urban and wild coexist over such a huge area. If you are poor, you can feel rich just minutes from the city, in your estate that is a national forest. If you ski in the high Sierra, or raft a runaway river in Utah, you are most likely doing it on land whose only deed of title is held by all citizens. 
"Unless there's a valid, legitimate and compelling public purpose, I don't know why the government owns so much of this land," said Romney.
Using Romney's calculation - in which these lands can only be viewed as a commodity - the public domain more than pays for itself. Federal lands in Nevada, for example, provide about $1 billion in economic impact and support 13,311 jobs - and that doesn't include the Forest Service. A poll by Colorado College found that 93 percent of the state's voters agree that national parks, forests and wildlife areas "are an essential part of Colorado's economy."
Not to be outdone, Rick Santorum has channeled his inner robber baron while in the West. Speaking in Boise last month, he promised to sell our land to the private sector. The last time somebody seriously proposed that - James Watt, the secretary of the interior under President Reagan - he got a bipartisan round of boos from all corners of the West.
"The federal government doesn't care about this land," Santorum said. "They don't live here, they don't care about it. We don't care about it in Washington. It's flyover country for most of the bureaucrats in Washington, D.C." 
It's clearly flyover country to Santorum. But try telling the many federal forest and park rangers, the smokejumpers and fish biologists, the backcountry avalanche experts and the game wardens, all of whom live in Western towns - and keep the economy in those places humming - that they "don't live here." 
Santorum makes national forests sound like crack houses. Some of them, after long neglect, do look a bit ratty. But the best are American cathedrals. Santorum probably doesn't know that a former governor of his home state, Gifford Pinchot, was the founder of the modern Forest Service. Pinchot was a rich man who spent his life advocating for places where "the little man," in his parlance, would be king. 
We can thank a hunter, a lover of nature and a man who was always thinking about the kind of country his great-grandchildren would inherit - the fire-breathing Republican Teddy Roosevelt - for most of the nation's public land. But today, no Republican would dare stand with T.R.
So it goes in this retrograde campaign. Is there any long-held, much-cherished American principle that Republicans and their media outlets will not renounce? Is there any bad idea from the 19th century - or earlier - they will not resurrect? 
Romney has shown that he knows the lyrics to "America the Beautiful." Too bad he doesn't know anything about the land itself - a gift of better minds than his, one that ensures that some things are equal in this democracy. 

        
My Summer Home
        
Sex and the Secularists
        
Needed: More Political Dimensions
        
The Fraud of the Tea Party
        
A Murder at Paradise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (86%); WILDLIFE (78%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MOUNTAINS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); MAMMALS (67%); SPORT HUNTING (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (62%); ANIMALS (62%) national parks; public land; republicans; romney; santorum; trees; Timothy Egan

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



326 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Theater Talkback: For Off-Broadway Theater, the Perils of Prosperity

BYLINE: CHARLES ISHERWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Off-Broadway theater is thriving. Impressive new buildings and stages have more than replaced those that have disappeared. Even so, prosperity has its perils. 

 BODY:
The lamentations over the slow death of commercial Off Broadway theater have subsided, at least for a while. It's true that over the past decade the city has lost at least a half-dozen spaces once devoted to presenting new work unsuitable for Broadway, including the Variety Arts in the East Village, the Promenade Theater on the Upper West Side (now a Sephora) and the Century Center off Union Square. I suppose we can consider it a happy coincidence that none has become a Duane Reade. The result has sometimes been a stampede to Broadway by shows that by all rights should remain Off Broadway. Witness the recent quick flop of the musical "Lysistrata Jones."
At the same time the established not-for-profit institutions that have long been the mainstay of the Off Broadway movement have not only survived but thrived in a tough economic environment. Between full-scale renovations and major building projects, most of the city's major Off Broadway companies have been in the process of regeneration - and major fundraising - over the past half-dozen years or more, resulting in some major changes in the landscape.
Manhattan Theater Club, one of the standard-bearers of Off Broadway since its founding in 1970, acquired its own Broadway venue, formerly the Biltmore and now the Samuel J. Friedman Theater. The Second Stage Theater is now housed in a former bank sleekly redesigned by Rem Koolhaas, and it has signed an agreement to establish its own foothold on Broadway, the Helen Hayes Theater. Fund-raising is under way. 
Theater for a New Audience, a vital resource for small-scale but often excellent classical theater, broke ground on its $47.5 million theater complex near the Brooklyn Academy of Music in June. Designed by another noted architect, Hugh Hardy, the new complex will feature a 299-seat main stage. This spring one of the city's most plush not-for-profit theaters, Lincoln Center Theater, will open a second Off Broadway space in a new structure plopped right on top of the Vivian Beaumont Theater. And the venerable Public Theater is in the process of getting a full-scale makeover of its multiple theater spaces. 
Perhaps most spectacular of all is the opening this spring of the $66 million Pershing Square Signature Center, the inviting new home of the Signature Theater Company, designed by yet another A-list architectural name, Frank Gehry. As those who have had a chance to visit by now know, the Signature Center is a major upgrade from the Signature's functional but modest previous home down the street. It boasts three spaces, with seating capacities ranging from just under 200 to just under 300.
You can enter the second floor lobby and caf area via elevators or an impressive twisting wooden staircase. Once there you can have coffee or a cocktail after collecting your tickets. The light-filled, open space reminds me of the National Theater in London in the way it opens up theatergoing as a fluid social experience. With three shows going up nightly at the moment, there is an inviting sense of hubbub just before curtain time. At the performance of "The Lady From Dubuque" I saw on Saturday night I happened to run into friends who were coming to see "Blood Knot"; when I went to see "Blood Knot" a few weeks ago I had a chance to say hello to Edward Albee. (A small complaint: With so much thought having gone into the creation of the space - these days all renovations of performance spaces expand the bathroom facilities - it was a bit dismaying that my knees were grinding into the back of the seat in front of me.) 
All this impressive building does bring with it potential pitfalls, however. Since it has moved to Broadway, Manhattan Theater Club has sometimes been less judicious in its selection of plays for its Off Broadway space at City Center. The first two plays it presented there this season - Zoe Kazan's "We Live Here" and Molly Smith Metzler's "Close Up Space" - were outright duds. Although the Public Theater has revived its dedication to Shakespeare in recent seasons, this year the company's new play slate is on the thin side, with the season dominated by double engagements of the solo show "The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs" and the return of "Gatz." 
The danger is that these companies, with elaborate new theaters to fill, will lose sight of their missions; the New York theater economy is already unhealthily Broadway-centric, and the idea that bigger is necessarily better is a dangerous one. The development and creation of innovative new work, no matter how great its potential for popular appeal, is the bedrock of the Off Broadway mission, and with new theaters requiring more overhead to keep up, the impulse to go for the safe choice, the name playwright, may be even greater. 
I also worry that this mania for building new lavish Off Broadway spaces will spread indiscriminately. There is something to be said for sitting still and maintaining a historic home, after all. I would be dismayed to hear that New York Theater Workshop, for instance, was embarking on a fund-raising drive to build a new theater. The company's current home on East 4th Street has its logistical inconveniences - there's no lobby to speak of, and the bathroom are puny - but it remains one of the most appealing theaters in the city, in part because it has the kind of scruffy, repurposed-but-ungentrified feeling that new theater spaces inevitably lack. There's nothing antiseptic about New York Theater Workshop's auditorium, and what it lacks in all mod cons it more than makes up for in funky, authentic East Village charm. 
And an element in the appeal of the grander Broadway theaters, after all, is the history of prior performances that you feel has seeped into the spaces themselves. There's no reason the same shouldn't hold true for Off Broadway theaters. New York Theater Workshop has long been one of the city's more adventurous not-for-profit houses, and its raw-looking but at the same time majestic auditorium has hosted some of the best new work the city has seen during its tenure, from the musical "Rent" to new plays by Caryl Churchill and the experimental revivals of the Flemish director Ivo Van Hove. It's been a slightly funky place where you expect to see adventurously funky theater, and I hope it stays that way.
Do you have any thoughts on the new Signature center, the old New York Theater Workshop, or the general state of the city's Off Broadway institutions? Please share them below. 

        
Lonely, He's Not: Paul Weitz Recruits Familiar Film Actors to Star in His New Play
        
New Musical Set in 1960s Coming to Second Stage Theater
        
Lucille Lortel Nominations Are Announced
        
The Morning Feed
        
Theater Talkback: Kevin Spacey, Ham

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (97%); THEATER & DRAMA (93%); FUNDRAISING (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%) building; Lincoln Center Theater; Manhattan Theater Club; off-Broadway; Second Stage Theater; Signature Theater Company; Theater; Theater for a New Audience; Theater Talkback; Gehry, Frank; Hardy, Hugh; Koolhaas, Rem; Architecture; New York Theater Workshop; Public Theater; Signature Center

COMPANY: BROADWAY COS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Manhattan Theater Club; New York Theater Workshop; Public Theater; Signature Center

INDUSTRY: SIC3544 SPECIAL DIES & TOOLS, DIE SETS, JIGS & FIXTURES & INDUSTRIAL MOLDS (69%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (84%) Gehry, Frank; Hardy, Hugh; Koolhaas, Rem

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



327 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Networks

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Brad Wenstrup's surprise defeat of Representative Jean Schmidt in Ohio's Republican primary on Tuesday with the aid of an anti-incumbent "Super PAC" was a warning to members of Congress about their uphill road to re-election, Jennifer Steinhauer and Jonathan Weisman write. The Campaign for Primary Accountability, the Super PAC that aided Mr. Wenstrup, is also targeting incumbents in House primaries in Alabama, Illinois and Texas.
As the Republican nominating contest turns South, Mitt Romney is seeking to make a persuasive case for why he should be the Republican nominee after his performance among Super Tuesday voters failed to elevate him above his rivals, and as the campaign prepares for a difficult stretch of primaries and caucuses over the next two weeks, Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg write.
While his rivals have been able to amass networks of grassroots donors, Mr. Romney has had to rely on high-dollar supporters, Nicholas Confessore and Ashley Parker write, saying that Mr. Romney's efforts to attract small donors are impaired by his wealth and the perception that he will eventually emerge as his party's nominee.
 As the Republican candidates take their campaigns to conservative strongholds like Alabama and Mississippi, Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum are starting to turn on each otherrather than uniting against Mr. Romney, Trip Gabriel and Michael D. Shear report.
Tapping into voters' concerns about the rising cost of gas, President Obama visited North Carolina on Wednesday to promote his plan to support sales of vehicles that run on alternative energy by repealing oil and gas subsidies, Jackie Calmes writes. The president also rebutted attacks from Republicans, who have criticized his approach, and warned voters against being persuaded by Republicans' "quick-fix" alternatives.
Around the Web:
The battle over President Obama's contraceptive care rule has moved to the federal court system, where Republican and religious-affiliated plaintiffs have filed at least eight lawsuits challenging the government's authority to require contraceptive coverage in employer-sponsored health insurance coverage, according to The Washington Post.
Happening in Washington:
President Obama will meet with President John Evans Atta Mills of Ghana in the afternoon before dining at a local restaurant in the evening with Mrs. Obama and the winners of a campaign contest.
Administration secretaries testifying at departmental budget hearings on Capitol Hill include Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. (Senate Appropriations) and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano (Senate Appropriationsand Homeland Security committees).
Economic data expected this morning include weekly jobless claims at 8:30, followed by weekly mortgage rates at 10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); LITIGATION (62%); CONTRACEPTION (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); BUDGETS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BRAD WENSTRUP (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); JEAN SCHMIDT (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); JOHN ATTA MILLS (56%); ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



328 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Video Highlights First Term

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Coming soon from Davis Guggenheim, an Academy Award-winning director: an action-packed film for the Obama campaign titled "The Road We've Traveled." The trailer was released Thursday. 

 BODY:
Coming soon from the Academy Award-winning director Davis Guggenheim: "The Road We've Traveled," an action-packed film for the Obama campaign that puts a Hollywood shine on President Obama's record.
On Thursday morning, the movie's two-minute trailer ran on "The Today Show" on ABC before being posted on the campaign Web site. Copies of the full-length film, which lasts 17 minutes, will go out nationwide for supporters to view on March 15 at house parties, union halls, campuses and perhaps even some theaters if they can be rented, campaign officials said.
The trailer takes viewers back to election night 2008, as the soon-to-be first family - an increasingly prominent tableau in this election year - greets the mass of revelers in Chicago's Grant Park. The film, accompanied by pulsating music, then recounts the financial crisis that embroiled the Obama team months before the inauguration, as well as the rescue of the auto industry, passage of the 2010 health care law and the death of Osama bin Laden.
Mr. Guggenheim, who directed "An Inconvenient Truth" about Al Gore's efforts to slow climate change, was retained by the Obama campaign to make the biographical film for the Democratic National Convention.
The film is narrated by Tom Hanks, and features on-camera testimonials to Mr. Obama from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Rahm Emanuel, the former White House chief of staff who is now mayor of Chicago; and Austan Goolsbee, a former economic adviser.
In the closing, Mr. Biden tells of his thoughts after Mr. Obama ordered the Bin Laden mission: "He's all alone. This is his decision. Nobody is standing there with him." The screen fills with a photo of Mr. Obama shot from behind, alone and silhouetted in a window of the Oval Office, that recalls the famous black-and-white photo of John F. Kennedy by the New York Times photographer George Tames.

        
Caucus Video: Three-Way Republican Race Emerges; Obama's Bus Tour
        
Video: Palin's Potential Impact
        
To Autoworkers, Obama Turns Up Oratory
        
At Prayer Breakfast, Obama Ties Economic Message to Christian Values
        
Caucus Video: Hope Tempered for Cooperation; Voter Disapproval of Congress at Record Levels

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); FILM DIRECTORS (91%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FILM (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (75%); DRAMA FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (65%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (65%); RELIGION (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (52%) 2012; 2012 election; barack obama; Presidential Election of 2012; video; Guggenheim, Davis; Obama, Barack; Democratic National Convention; Road We've Traveled, The (Movie); Elections; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TOM HANKS (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); AL GORE (57%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Guggenheim, Davis; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



329 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: House Backs Aid to Small Businesses

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The House approves a bill that could help create jobs -- an effort to dent the do-nothing image of Congress as Election Day nears. 

 BODY:
 The House on Thursday overwhelmingly approved legislation to ease small businesses' access to investments and capital markets, a sign that the shadow of the November election is pressing Congress into action.
 The390-to-23 vote on the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act is likely to propel the legislation forward. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said a Senate version was likely to be unveiled early next week, and aides said it would likely reflect the House bill.
 The House action came on the day Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said the House would likely set aside its differences to draft its own transportation and infrastructure bill and take up a bipartisan Senate version once it has passed - probably early next week.
 Republican leaders were open about the political pressure driving them toward bipartisanship.
 "We are in an election season, and the test for any candidate is whether they can produce results," said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, after he was asked about Representative Jean Schmidt's loss Tuesday in her Republican primary in Ohio.
 Big fights still lie ahead, especially over the budget and spending. But the actions of the week produced a rare moment of comity between House Republicans, Senate Democrats and the White House. 
 In a news conference Thursday with reporters, Mr. Reid called the House bill "commendable" and "a step forward," and he urged the lower chamber to get on board with the Senate transportation bill. 
 If success produces a thousand fathers, Washington proved that true this week. White House officials stressed that many of the elements of the House JOBS Act came from President Obama's jobs council and the proposals he laid out. 
 Democratic senators said they had co-wrote mirror versions of the House provisions. And the one sour note of the debate came when Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, angrily accused House Republican leaders of stealing a bill written by a Democrat, Representative Jim Himes of Connecticut, and giving it to a Republican, Representative Ben Quayle of Arizona.
 After Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said Democrats were being too concerned about credit, Mr. Frank accused Mr. Hensarling of issuing "the most hypocritical and dishonest statement" he had "ever heard uttered in this House." The words were stricken from the official record of the debate.
 The jobs legislation is narrowly tailored, even though it is being promoted by all sides as a major boost to the economy. The centerpiece, drafted by two freshman representatives, delays some Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and creates a category of "emerging growth companies" to lower the costs of initial public offerings for smaller firms. Another measure removes an S.E.C. prohibition on small companies using advertisements to solicit investors, a ban that dates to 1982. One measure lifts restrictions on "crowd funding" so entrepreneurs can raise capital from large pools of small investors. Still another increases the number of shareholders permitted to invest in a community bank to 2,000 from 500.
 The 23 members who voted no largely came from the most liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and they expressed concern that the bill went too far in dismantling regulations intended to protect investors.
 But for virtually every other member, the imperative was to be seen as doing something about the recovering but still anemic job market.
 "I think there's a huge sense of frustration with everybody, regardless of party," said Representative Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia. "Nothing's getting done on the most significant issue facing them." She said lawmakers might say that their votes were not about the election, but, she added, "obviously you turn the corner in an election year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (96%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); APPROVALS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STARTUPS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%) Labor and Jobs; House of Representatives; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: HARRY REID (59%); JIM HIMES (59%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JEAN SCHMIDT (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); BEN QUAYLE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



330 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Measures to Speed Pipeline Fail

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama personally lobbied several Democratic senators to vote against efforts to expedite the Keystone project. 

 BODY:
Two measures that would have expedited, in different ways, the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline failed in the Senate on Thursday.
The votes on the measures - which were attached to a large transportation bill and required 60 votes for passage - came after President Obama personally lobbied several Democrats to vote against one of the measures, White House officials said. 
The first measure, sponsored by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, called for the speedy review of any new permit applications related to the pipeline. The amendment, which failed 64 to 34, would have also required that the iron, steel and other goods used in the construction of the pipeline be made in the United States. 
Another measure, sponsored by Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota, sought to remove the State Department's authority over the proposed project. The measure, which failed 56 to 42, would have allowed Nebraska officials to establish a new pipeline route within the state; an earlier route plan was opposed by the state's governor and many lawmakers.
Republicans believe that the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline - which Mr. Obama has blocked for now - is one of the best weapons against Democrats at a time of high unemployment and climbing gasoline prices. They have repeatedly criticized Mr. Obama for opposing the expansion of the pipeline and portrayed him as acquiescing to the hard-left environmentalists in his base. Tellingly, 11 Democrats voted in favor of Mr. Hoeven's measure. 
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, derided Mr. Obama's efforts on the Senate floor Thursday. "Think about it," he said. "At a moment when millions are out of work, gas prices are literally skyrocketing and the Middle East is in turmoil, we've got a president who is up making phone calls trying to block a pipeline here at home. It's really almost unbelievable."
Speaker John A. Boehner echoed those sentiments in a news conference later in the day. "By 'personally lobbying' against the Keystone pipeline," he said, "it means the president of the United States is lobbying for sending North American energy to China and lobbying against American jobs. So the president told the nation he supports an 'all-of-the-above' energy strategy that Republicans have long supported."
The White House would not specify which Democrats the president lobbied.
A White House spokesman, Clark Stevens, said in a statement: "As the president has made clear, we will ensure any project receives the important assessment it deserves, and the administration will base a decision to provide a permit on the completion of that review, a process that was unfortunately blocked by Republicans in December. Meanwhile we continue to take steps to support American-made energy, including doing all we can to expedite construction of a pipeline from Cushing, Okla., to refineries along the Gulf Coast."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%) Keystone Pipeline System; Senate; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); RON WYDEN (58%); JOHN HOEVEN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



331 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: What Do I Know About Poverty?

BYLINE: DOUGLAS MACKINNON


HIGHLIGHT: I worked for Republicans in the White House and the Senate, but when I talk about growing up extremely poor, politicians show no curiosity. 

 BODY:
What's real-world experience worth? Does it matter?
I always thought so, but with regard to a subject I know better than many - poverty - I'm starting to have my doubts.
For all of my childhood in the 1960s, I lived in abject poverty in and around the Dorchester section of Boston. From a tar-paper shack to relatively nice apartments, but never for long. By the time I was 17, I had moved 34 times. Each move was an eviction, from a home with no electricity or no phone or no heat or all of them off at once. Many times we ended up homeless, bouncing from cars to cockroach-infested motels to relatives who would take us in for a few days at best.
This is not the moment to tell my whole story, but from there I somehow entered the Republican side of the political spectrum and was privileged to work for Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bob Dole. I was a writer on three presidential campaigns and an official in the Defense Department.
Off and on over those years, I also wrote on the subject of poverty. Ten years ago, I published an Op-Ed in The Times, "The Welfare Washington Doesn't Know," on welfare reform and poverty. Among others things, I stressed that it was all but impossible for politicians to craft sound legislation if they had no understanding of real poverty (and they don't). And that we tend to punish, ignore or fear those who live in hopeless despair. I suggested that maybe Congress invite the truly poor to testify before them and just listen. Say nothing and just listen. Learn about lives without heat, electricity, a phone, subway money or adequate medical care. The response was overwhelming.
After being contacted by hundreds of people, numerous television and radio programs, and even a few publishers, I decided I would write a book, eventually, when I was emotionally up to the task of opening old wounds and reliving the horror show that was the childhood of my younger sister, my older brother and me.
About two weeks ago, that book came out. After making an appearance on "Morning Joe" to discuss my background, MSNBC put the segment online with the headline, "Former White House writer details brutal childhood in new memoir."
When I first saw the headline, I was taken aback a bit by the word "brutal." But the more I looked at it, the more I nodded in silent acknowledgment. While I had never used that word when discussing my childhood, "brutal" seemed to crystallize those years of dysfunction and squalor.
Next, I thought, shouldn't that "brutal" existence be worth something in terms of experience? Does what I saw and battled matter?
For some readers going through tough times, the answer is yes. I have already heard from well over 100 people telling me the book has touched them in some way.
But as I stared at that MSNBC headline, I kept wondering if my real-world experience would matter to our elected leaders, whether they were people I knew or politicians who had somehow heard about me or my book. Would it matter to those who often have the fate of the desperately poor in their hands? As some in the Republican party, like Mitt Romney, struggled to find answers to questions about enormous wealth and the day-to-day fight to survive with next-to-nothing, I wondered if someone from the political class might reach out to me.
The answer is no. In promoting my memoir, I've been on a number of television and radio programs, which have been broadcast across the nation. Not one elected official has gotten in touch with me to ask if I might want to discuss poverty, my experience and possible solutions.
It was the same before, when I wrote the Op-Ed I mentioned for The Times. I heard from hundreds of people. But not one politician. In the past, when I wrote a column on, say, the space program, or immigration, I heard from certain politicians. But on poverty, never.
I find this odd and more than a little troubling. This is not about me. I don't care if it's other people who write a column or a book based on their own experience of unrelenting poverty. I don't care if they are liberal or conservative. But when poverty remains one of the unsolved tragedies of our time, shouldn't the observations of someone who truly suffered through it matter to at least one elected official?
In many ways, the mind-numbing ignorance of our "leaders" with regard to true poverty is the largest obstacle to finding actual solutions. At the end of last year, I took Newt Gingrich to task in The Chicago Tribune after he said that "really poor children in really poor neighborhoods have no habits of working and have nobody around them who works so they literally have no habit of showing up on Monday." That comment was not only ignorant, but insulting.
I call them "unsung heroes" in my book, but in some of the neighborhoods I inhabited as a child, I got to see, first hand, numerous single moms - many times African-American or other minorities - who worked two or three back-breaking jobs to house their children, feed their children and teach those children right from wrong. All with no support. They were exceptional women and remarkable role models.
Several years ago, with these women in mind, I wrote a column asking whether we might want to think about creating a "Single Mothers' Day." Some of my fellow conservatives did not think so highly of my question and let me know it.
A few days after the column ran, I got a handwritten letter from former President Bill Clinton telling me how much he enjoyed it and that he felt it was something we should explore. As an independent conservative, I have long admired Bill Clinton, in part because I believe his own dysfunctional childhood made him a strong advocate for the poor and disenfranchised as he sought to strike a balance between government assistance and self-reliance.
But he was "former" when he wrote to me. What about our currently serving elected officials? Shouldn't they care about what I learned from what I went through or what someone else who has walked this walk knows?
Some of my thoughts on poverty may offend liberals. Some may offend conservatives. But all are my honest conclusions based on the life I led.
Shouldn't that experience matter?

        
The Electoral Wasteland
        
More Opinions
        
The Future of the Obama Coalition
        
The Gulf of Morality
        
Other Stops: Want to Be in the Obama Administration? Hand Over Your Blog

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); EVICTION (76%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLISHING (71%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) childhood; poverty; Republicans; Gingrich, Newt; MacKinnon, Douglas; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Politics and Government; Boston (Mass)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Gingrich, Newt; MacKinnon, Douglas

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



332 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2375 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Facebook Expands Credit Facility and Adds Underwriters | On its way to the public markets, Facebook is raising a huge war chest.
In an updated prospectus filed on Wednesday, Facebook said it had effectively doubled its credit facility to $5 billion. It has also secured a $3 billion bridge loan, to help set aside money for costs associated with the vesting of employee stock.
Facebook has steadily increased its borrowing over the last 12 months. In its previous filing, submitted in early February, Facebook disclosed that it had secured a $1.5 billion line of credit in February 2011, which was raised to $2.5 billion by September. DealBook 
Government's Role in British Bank Creates Uneasy Alliance | When Britain bailed out the Royal Bank of Scotland in 2008 and took a majority stake, the government promised to remain a passive investor. But some employees and analysts now say the line has blurred, as politicians push the bank to rein in executive compensation, bolster lending and limit risky businesses.
While the bank says management makes its own decisions and politicians insist they do not dictate strategy, the government has recently taken a more hands-on role in the bank's operations.
During discussions about bonuses, British treasury officials talked to the bank's executives several times a day. Each month, Stephen Hester, the chief executive, or other top executives meet with the government-backed agency that manages the bank holding to discuss strategic initiatives, including the plan to shrink the investment banking unit. In contrast, bank executives formally meet with other shareholders just four times a year. DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
The World's Billionaires, According to Forbes | Forbes has released its ranking of the richest people on earth, with Carlos Slim Hel remaining atop the list. FORBES
Slimming Undergarments Create a Billionaire | Sara Blakely, who owns 100 percent of the hosiery company Spanx, is the youngest woman to join the Forbes list without assistance from an inheritance or a husband. FORBES
Broker With Ties to Accused Brothel Operator Is Identified | A Morgan Stanley broker was with Anna Gristina -- who has been accused of running a brothel on the Upper East Side of Manhattan -- at the time of her arrest. DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Pension Fund to Vote Against Kinder Morgan-El Paso Deal | One of the nation's largest public pensions said it would vote to block Kinder Morgan's $21 billion takeover of the El Paso Corporation, citing a lack of transparency and a conflict of interest related to the company's merger adviser. DealBook 
Delaware Judge Is Both King and Jester | Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. unleashed his sarcastic side in his opinion on the Kinder Morgan and El Paso Corporation deal, but high stakes underlie the jokes, David Weidner of The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Delphi C.E.O. Under a Microscope | A Delaware court judge said in an opinion that Delphi Financial's chief, Robert Rosenkranz, had selfishly favored his own interests in negotiating a sale of the company to Tokio Marine Financial, the Deal Professor writes. DealBook 
Wells Fargo Weighs 'Selective Acquisitions' | Wells Fargo may be in the mood to shop. Its chief financial officer, Timothy J. Sloan, told a conference in Manhattan on Wednesday that the bank was weighing "selective acquisitions" as European banks put assets up for sale, Rick Rothacker of Reuters reports. Reuters
Chinese Miner's Coal Deal Approved by Australia | Australia's treasurer has approved a deal for Yanzhou Coal Mining of China to acquire Gloucester Coal of Australia that would create the country's largest independently listed coal producer, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Pfizer Said to Have Rejected an Offer From Novartis | In the last month or so, Novartis offered to buy Pfizer's division that makes drugs and vaccines for animals, which could fetch $15 billion to $20 billion if sold, but Pfizer decided the $16 billion bid was too low, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Xstrata Expands in Canada | Xstrata, which has agreed to be acquired by Glencore International, is paying $500 million for a Canadian oil deposit owned by Talisman Energy, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
BNP Paribas Sells Stake in Real Estate Firm for $2 Billion | The French bank BNP Paribas agreed on Thursday to sell a stake in a French real estate company, Klpierre, for $2 billion as part of its efforts to increase capital reserves. DealBook 
Management Changes Expected at Deutsche Bank | Anshu Jain, the incoming co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, intends to appoint two investment bankers to replace him, according to a person with direct knowledge of the decision. DealBook 
How Citi Could Be More Transparent | Citigroup could start by catching up with other big Wall Street banks and releasing how much capital it has supporting its investment banking unit. DealBook 
Banker Salaries Grow Faster in Asia | Salaries for bankers in Asia are expected to rise 5 percent on average this year, compared with a 2.5 percent average increase in the United States, according to a survey by the human resources firm Mercer, Reuters reports. REUTERS
New M.&A. Adviser for Jefferies Unit | Andrew Bell, global head of mergers and acquisitions at HSBC, is said to be leaving the firm to join the American investment bank Jefferies. DealBook 
Exchanges Look to Curb Fast Trading | Direct Edge Holdings and the Nasdaq OMX Group are among the exchanges planning tighter controls for high-frequency trading firms, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Corporate Borrowers Take Advantage of Low Rates | Companies are seizing an opportunity to secure some cheap cash as corporate bond yields reach record lows, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Questions Surround Buyout Industry's Tax Status | In the United States and in Europe, politicians are taking a hard look at the tax break that has been a crucial driver of income in the private equity industry, The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
Size Matters in Private Equity | The biggest private equity firms tend to do better than their smaller rivals, with more ability to manage the operations of their portfolio companies, according to a report from PitchBook Data, Dow Jones Newswires reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Greenpark Said to Get World Bank Investment | Greenpark Capital will invest in private equity secondary markets with a new $500 million fund, which includes a $100 million investment from the finance arm of the World Bank, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Cerberus Said to Be in Talks for Yellow Pages | Cerberus Capital Management is negotiating with AT&T over the sale of a majority stake in the company's Yellow Pages division, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Abraaj Buys Stake in Moroccan Insurance Firm | Abraaj Capital, the huge Middle Eastern private equity firm, has taken a $125 million stake in Saham Finances, an investor in insurance companies, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Funds May Get Tax Break Under Republican Plan | A new proposal by Republican lawmakers to give small businesses an additional tax break would abandon restrictions in an earlier version, making hedge funds with fewer than 500 employees eligible, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Fresh Start for a Hedge Fund Manager | After a stint at FrontPoint Partners that saw the fund collapse in scandal, Stephen J. Czech has started Czech Asset Management and is looking to raise $1.5 billion for a new fund, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Central Bank Lending Stymies Distressed Investors | The cheap cash that the European Central Bank injected into the Continent's financial system has changed the game for hedge funds looking to invest in distressed assets, Reuters reports. REUTERS
AIJ May Get Longer Suspension | Japan's Financial Services Agency is considering extending its suspension of AIJ Investment Advisors beyond one month, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified government officials with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Client of AIJ Considers Seeking Damages | Human Holdings, the health care and school company that said it was a client of AIJ Investment Advisors, is seeking to determine whether it can take legal action over possible losses on about $4.1 million that the suspended asset manager oversaw, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Treasury to Sell $6 Billion Worth of A.I.G. Shares | The Treasury Department announced a plan to sell $6 billion of its American International Group shares, with A.I.G. planning to buy back up to $3 billion worth. DealBook 
In China, Changing the Rules Isn't Easy | The China Securities Regulatory Commission is advocating a more market-based approach to regulating I.P.O.'s, in which investors judge information that companies disclose. But making that switch could take years, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Investors Sue Over Empire State Building I.P.O. | Shareholders of companies whose equity could be converted to stock of the proposed Empire State Realty Trust accused the Malkin family, which controls the skyscraper, of trying to set up a "self-interested and one-sided" deal, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Netflix Eyes Cable Partnership | Top executives of Netflix have met with major cable operators over the past several weeks to discuss how to put the company's service on cable bills, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Pandora Falls After Sales Forecast | Shares of Pandora fell 24 percent on Wednesday, the largest drop since the Internet radio company went public last year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Subscriptions Are an Entrepreneur's Best Friend | When Alex Zhardanovsky set out to prove that his start-up PetFlow was not just the next Pets.com, he used a time-tested tactic increasingly adopted by other tech entrepreneurs: he asked customers to subscribe, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
A Ride on the Start-Up Bus | StartupBus is more than just a way to travel to the South by Southwest Festival. Created by Elias Bizannes of Charles River Ventures, the program selects programmers who spend four days on the road coming up with ideas for companies, Bloomberg Businessweek reports. BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Solar Panel Maker Raises $55 Million | MiaSole, which makes thin-film solar panels using unconventional materials, said it raised $55 million from investors including VantagePoint Capital Partners and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Dow Jones Newswires reports. DOW JONES
Dating Start-Up Uses Social Network Data | TheComplete.me uses data from a range of social networks to create a Pinterest-like experience that is supposed to help people find love, GigaOm writes. GIGAOM
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Citigroup's Pandit Shows Love for Dodd-Frank | At a speech on Wednesday, Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, championed an idea that most Wall Street titans would shun: regulation is good. DealBook 
Greek Restructuring Has 60% Participation | Investors holding 60 percent of the Greek bonds that are eligible for the debt exchange have said they will take part, for a total of about 124 billion euros ($163 billion), Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Holdouts in the Greek Deal | Some hedge funds, which have until Thursday night to decide whether to sign on to the Greek debt restructuring, are pushing for a better deal instead, threatening legal action, Reuters reports, citing legal advisers and unidentified people close to the negotiations. REUTERS
Bank of England Keeps Rates Unchanged | Britain's central bank decided to keep its main interest rate at 0.5 percent on Thursday, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
E.C.B. Expected to Maintain Rates | After cutting interest rates twice last year and pumping a vast amount of cheap cash into the banking system, the European Central Bank is expected to refrain from further action on Thursday, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Fed Said to Consider New Bond-Buying Approach | To counteract concern that its asset purchases could lead to inflation, the Federal Reserve is exploring a new type of program in which it would borrow back money it uses to buy bonds, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall Street Says New Oversight Agency Is Too Costly | In a letter to the Treasury Department, the financial industry urged that the start-up costs of the new Office of Financial Research be paid for by the Federal Reserve instead of the banks it oversees. DealBook 
U.S. Said to Warn Apple of Antitrust Case | The Justice Department has told Apple and five of its publishers that it plans to sue them for allegedly colluding to raise the prices of e-books, and several of the targets have been in settlement talks, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Societe Generale Faces Investigation of Internal Controls | The bank said in its annual report that France's banking regulator was set to investigate how Socit Gnrale policed its private bank, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Pension Compromise at American Airlines | AMR, the bankrupt parent company of American Airlines, said it would freeze, rather than terminate, employees' pensions, in a victory for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which otherwise might have had to bear losses of $8 billion, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Chrysler Chief Forgoes Pay | Sergio Marchionne, head of the bailed-out automaker Chrysler, declined compensation for 2011, but is still paid as the chief executive of Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MERGERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LINGERIE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); PROSTITUTION (61%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); EL PASO CORP (81%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); KINDER MORGAN INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (70%); RBS (LSE) (70%); RBS (AMS) (70%); MS (NYSE) (52%); KMI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HESTER (53%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



333 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Pressed on Access For Nuclear Inspectors

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and WILLIAM J. BROAD; Artin Afkhami contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The six world powers that have agreed to resume negotiations with Iran over its disputed nuclear program issued a blunt request on Thursday that the Iranians allow international inspectors unfettered access, most notably to Parchin, a large restricted military complex that the inspectors suspect may house a testing chamber for explosives used in atomic weapons triggers.
In a joint statement, the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- plus Germany signaled a unified resolve in their renewed negotiations with Iran, which were suspended in frustration more than a year ago. The six agreed this week to Iran's request to restart negotiations. 
Their statement also sent a message of impatience with any possible Iranian attempts to prolong or stall negotiations over the nuclear program. Iran says its program is for purely peaceful purposes, while the West suspects that it is a cover to develop the ability to make nuclear weapons. The dispute has resulted in unprecedented Western economic sanctions on Iran, has raised global oil prices and has stirred fears of a new military conflict in the Middle East if the negotiations fail.
The tone of the statement also suggested that the historic sympathies Iran has received from Russia and China over its nuclear activities have diminished, as Iran has flaunted its increased ability to enrich uranium despite repeated calls for a suspension.
''We call on Iran to enter, without preconditions, into a sustained process of serious dialogue which will produce concrete results,'' read the statement, issued at a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear monitor, in Vienna.
The statement noted that agency inspectors who had sought and expected access to what they consider ''all relevant sites'' in Iran during visits in January and February were denied permission, despite Iran's professed desire to allay their concerns. ''In that context we urge Iran to fulfill its undertaking to grant access to Parchin,'' the statement said.
Issued by China on behalf of the six powers, the statement did not mention satellite images of Parchin that according to some news reports suggest efforts by the Iranians to cleanse the site before permitting an inspection. Some experts in satellite reconnaissance have discounted those reports, saying it would be impossible to determine such information from the images.
In a further hint of irritation with Iran, however, the agency's director general, Yukiya Amano, told reporters that his initial optimism after Iran agreed to permit the inspectors to visit had soured, because of what he called Iran's ''old restrictive approach that seeks to tie our hands.''
Mr. Amano said the agency ''should be able to do its verification work unhampered.''
''If too many restrictions are placed on the agency, we cannot do our job properly,'' he said, saying that Iran had ''refused to provide access to the Parchin site during the visits, as repeatedly requested by the agency.''
The Parchin site figured conspicuously in an agency report issued last November on Iran's nuclear work that significantly raised suspicions about Iranian military motives. The report said Iran had constructed a large containment vessel there in 2000 that was designed to conduct tests on explosives needed to start the kind of reaction that could set off a nuclear bomb. The report said such tests would be ''strong indicators of possible weapon development.'' Iran has ridiculed that suspicion, asserting that it had allowed inspectors to visit Parchin in 2005. But that visit was heavily monitored and did not include a tour of the containment vessel cited in the agency's November report.
Since that report, private specialists in satellite imagery have scrutinized the sprawling Parchin complex, on a desert site not far from Tehran.
Paul Brannan, a senior analyst at the Institute for Science and International Security, a private group in Washington that tracks nuclear proliferation, said he had looked at many images but so far had not found the specific site or signs of any cleanup activity. But he added that the massive scale of development at Parchin made the problem quite challenging. ''There's no way to know whether or not the activity you see in a particular satellite image is cleansing or just regular work,'' he said. ''They build a lot of stuff. There's a lot of activity there -- always.''
Israel, which feels particularly threatened by Iran, has warned that it may attack suspected nuclear sites there if the Iranians do not stop enriching uranium and prove their assertion that they want nuclear fuel only for peaceful purposes. President Obama, meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel earlier this week, counseled caution, urged the Israelis to give diplomacy and sanctions more time, and castigated Republican critics for what Mr. Obama described as a promoting a drumbeat to war with Iran.
Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, criticized Mr. Obama on Thursday for believing that sanctions would pressure Iran into renouncing its nuclear program. But in a highly unusual bit of praise, the ayatollah commended Mr. Obama for asserting that he did not want a war. ''Such remarks are good and indicate a step out of delusions,'' the ayatollah said in remarks reported by Iran's PressTV Web site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yukiya Amano, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERWIG PRAMMER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



334 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: East Bay Oil Exports Have Become Huge Business

BYLINE: By AARON GLANTZ. 
aglantz@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The Bay Area is known for the Golden Gate Bridge, technology start-ups and California cuisine, among other things. Oil does not usually make the list.
But the region's five oil refineries along San Pablo Bay and the Carquinez Strait were responsible for $7.8 billion in oil exports in 2010, more than any other metro area in the country, according to a report released Thursday by the Brookings Institution. 
It was up $726 million from the year before.
''A lot of U.S. exports are things that we do not see,'' said Emilia Istrate, a senior research analyst at Brookings, who helped write the report. ''Sometimes people forget how much refined oil there is around,'' she said.
Government and industry officials said in interviews that the increase in the amount of finished oil exported from the East Bay's refineries was linked to changing economic and gas consumption patterns in the United States. Other facilities along the West Coast have also seen their exports skyrocket as domestic demand sags.
High gas prices, more fuel-efficient cars and fewer commuters have all contributed to California drivers using a million fewer gallons of gas than they did in 2005, according to the California State Board of Equalization, which collects the state gasoline tax.
''A lot of Central Valley workers who lost their jobs in the Bay Area are no longer making those long commutes and therefore are not buying as much gasoline,'' said Jaime Garza, a spokesman for the agency.
''Our options were to reduce production, lay off workers, close refineries or find markets for our products,'' said Tupper Hull, a vice president at the Western States Petroleum Association, an industry trade group. ''We found new markets.''
In December 2011, West Coast refineries exported an average of 33,000 barrels a day of motor gasoline, according to data provided by the United States Energy Information Administration, up from just 4,000 barrels a day in 2007, before the recession began.
Jonathan Cogan, a spokesman for the energy information agency, said the search for new markets had been a relatively easy one, because in many developing countries -- including Brazil, China and Mexico -- demand for refined oil far outstrips supply.
China has also been an eager buyer of petroleum coke, a solid byproduct of the refining process that is burned in developing countries to generate electricity. The Energy Information Administration's data show West Coast exports of the product -- which is rarely burned in the United States because doing so produces enough pollution to violate clean air laws -- have increased to 128,000 barrels a day, up nearly 60 percent since 2007.
These trends could continue even after the recession is over, said Ms. Istrate, the Brookings Institution researcher.
''In the long term, we know that the growth markets are going to be in developing countries,'' Ms. Istrate said. ''So it is important for us to help companies who want to export to help them realize their potential.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ConocoPhillips refinery in Rodeo. Changing economic and gas consumption patterns make more oil available for export. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RECESSION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); DISMISSALS (70%); CONSUMPTION (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) WEST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



335 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Trucking Company Workers Are Indicted in Fraud Scheme

BYLINE: By MOSI SECRET

 BODY:
Five trucking company employees used an elaborate scheme to steal more than $5 million in union benefit money, according to an indictment unsealed on Thursday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. 
The scheme involved a unionized trucking company, Greenwood 2, whose owner, John Farnsworth, entered into a collective bargaining agreement with Local 282, the truck drivers' union, according to the indictment. This agreement obligated Greenwood and its subcontractors to pay more than $30 an hour to their drivers and to make payments to Local 282's benefit funds.
But the subcontracting truck companies, which Mr. Farnsworth also controlled, were not unionized, and the drivers earned lower wages. Prosecutors say the defendants pocketed the savings.
''It's a complicated scenario, but the crime itself was pretty simple,'' said Shari C. Hyman, commissioner of New York City's Business Integrity Commission, which began the investigation. ''They cooked the books and stole from the union.''
Two other workers -- Nicholas Farnsworth, 34, John Farnsworth's son; and Toni Thomson, 30 -- acted as nominal owners of Greenwood and the other companies. A fourth defendant, Stephen Tripodi, 48, was the nominal owner of another trucking company, and the fifth defendant, William Taylor, 46, was a dispatcher for the companies.
All face charges including embezzlement and fraud. Nicholas Farnsworth has not been arraigned; the others pleaded not guilty at their arraignment.
All of the companies operated out of the same truck yards and offices and used the same truck drivers, mechanics and office staff, according to the indictment.
John Farnsworth, 60, entered into the collecting bargaining agreement in June 2007. In addition to paying a minimum salary and benefits, the contract required him to make payments to union funds for things like pensions and job training. The company was also required to report the number of hours worked by each driver, so the drivers could receive their full benefits.
The indictment says that beginning in June 2007, the defendants failed to report the full hours of drivers and conducted a substantial portion of the business under the nonunion companies, to avoid wage requirements and union fund payments.
''In these difficult economic times, these defendants conspired to steal the pension and welfare benefits of hard-working truck drivers, depriving them of retirement and health benefits they rightfully earned,'' Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCKING (92%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



336 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: An Industry's Failure To Verify, After Trusting

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
As the financial crisis intensified in mid-2008, the largest of the monoline insurance companies that had guaranteed payments on complicated securities retained an investment bank to evaluate the risks it had taken on in a small part of its portfolio -- a group of 15 collateralized debt obligations.
The report commissioned by MBIA came back days before that investment bank, Lehman Brothers, itself failed in September 2008. Lehman concluded that MBIA stood to lose more than $7.7 billion on those 15 securities. That was about three times the loss reserves the company had established for all of its policies. If accurate, it raised serious questions about the company's solvency.
About 10 weeks later, on Dec. 5, MBIA asked the New York Insurance Department, now part of New York's Department of Financial Services, for permission to split into two units. One would have just the dubious business -- known as structured finance -- including securities backed by home mortgages and the even riskier C.D.O.'s that are backed by securities that in turn are backed by mortgages. 
The other unit would be responsible for MBIA's traditional business of insuring municipal bonds. It presented to the department financial projections showing both companies would be well capitalized.
Eric R. Dinallo, the state insurance commissioner at the time, approved the transaction on Feb. 17, 2009, without having held any hearings or even notifying the public that the idea was under consideration. The beneficiaries of those insurance policies -- largely banks and hedge funds that owned the structured finance securities -- promptly sued in both state and federal court to overturn the approval.
More than three years later, it appears that one of those cases will go to trial in May in New York Supreme Court in Manhattan. If it does, it will be the first major civil case from the financial crisis to go to trial. Many cases charging misbehavior have been settled, often with payments of billions of dollars, but there has been no public presentation of evidence and cross examination of witnesses before a judge.
This trial, and ones that could follow it, will not change how much money has been and will be lost because of bad loans made during the boom. But the trials are likely to affect the division of the losses. For those who watch them, they will also document just how irresponsible -- or worse -- many of the players were.
Ronald Reagan famously said, of treaties with the Soviet Union, ''Trust, but verify.''
The motto of the credit boom seems to have been ''Trust. It would cost too much and take too long to verify.''
That motto applied to those who made the mortgage loans, to those who put together securitizations, to those who rated them, and to those, like MBIA, that insured them. It also applied to regulators, as the coming trial may make clear.
The existence of the Lehman Brothers report was disclosed in late February by lawyers for a hedge fund, Aurelius Capital Management, which is the lead plaintiff in the suit against MBIA that is pending in federal court. In a brief seeking to have its case certified as a class action, Aurelius said that MBIA had hidden the Lehman report from the insurance commissioner.
A spokesman for MBIA declined to discuss the Lehman report, which has not been made public. Nor would he identify the particular securities it covered or say how they had worked out.
What is clear is that MBIA's insured portfolio has performed worse than MBIA thought could possibly happen -- and that the bad news keeps coming. Last week MBIA's chief financial officer, C. Edward Chaplin, told analysts that MBIA had raised its expected payouts during the final quarter of 2011 because mortgage delinquencies were higher than anticipated.
MBIA is also active as a plaintiff. It has suits pending against three banks over securitizations that MBIA says it was defrauded into guaranteeing. The loans in those securitizations were not as advertised, it says, and the banks should be forced to repay all the losses the company is suffering.
As it happens, there will be two hearings on Friday on MBIA cases in front of three judges in Manhattan, concerning the evidence that must be produced before the trials begin.
In the morning, MBIA will be in state court trying to force Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, to sit for a deposition on MBIA's claim the bank owes it more than $3 billion because the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial, now part of the bank, lied to it.
In the afternoon, an unusual hearing in federal court will be presided over by both a federal judge and a state judge, who are hearing separate cases seeking to reverse the MBIA reorganization. The subject there will be how much evidence the insurance arm of the Department of Financial Services must turn over.
Mr. Dinallo, who is now a partner in the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, said in a deposition that he believed he had done a thorough job, and that one reason he had approved the reorganization was the hope that MBIA could get federal assistance.
He decided not to bring in outside experts, and was content to ask a staff member to review the company's ''loss modeling methodologies'' to see if they met industry standards. He concluded they did.
MBIA assured the department it would be fine even under a highly unlikely episode of ''extreme stress.'' That claim now appears to have been wildly optimistic. MBIA is able to report that it is solvent only because it has booked recoveries of more than $3 billion from its suits against the banks -- even though those banks have yet to agree to pay anything. The unit borrowed $1.1 billion from the other part of MBIA in 2011 to make payments to investors who agreed they would not file claims if they suffered losses.
The state argues that the courts cannot second-guess insurance department decisions except under the most extraordinary circumstances, such as clear evidence of corruption. In his deposition, Mr. Dinallo said it would have been proper for him to approve the MBIA reorganization ''by simply relying on and presuming the accuracy of the materials submitted by MBIA.'' After all, it was against the law for any regulated company to willfully provide false or misleading information.
MBIA practiced similar trust when it was making the mistakes that led to those losses. It would have been easy to check some loan files. But time was short, and, as it has explained in some lawsuits, the fees it was charging did not make extensive due diligence cost effective.
''The defendants in the litigation and the press have pointed to our advertised underwriting standards and asserted that we should have 'known better' and detected the fraud and misrepresentations ourselves,'' wrote MBIA's chief executive, Joseph W. Brown Jr., in a letter to shareholders in 2010.
''But,'' he added, ''a keystone of our underwriting -- and of commerce itself -- is the trust that all parties will act in good faith and in compliance with their contractual commitments. For that reason, we deliberately chose to do business with very large, very reputable financial firms with whom we have had long business relationships, some going back 30 years. We believed they were ethically committed to standing behind their business, would deal with us honestly and would share material information with us about the transactions they asked us to insure.''
He compared it to buying a car. ''We thought we were buying a Mercedes, not a used car where it is 'buyer beware.' ''
That explanation has not impressed everyone. Many of the securitizations being fought over now were composed entirely of mortgages that appeared risky on their faces. That is why the investors wanted insurance.
In one securitization for which MBIA is suing Credit Suisse, the vast majority of loans went to borrowers whose income, or assets, or both, had not been verified. About 15 percent of the loans had been made by New Century Mortgage, which by the time MBIA issued its insurance had already gone bankrupt because of its shoddy lending practices.
It would be nice to hear someone -- whether the regulators or MBIA -- say that in retrospect they were far too trusting and bear some responsibility for what happened.
Don't hold your breath waiting for that to happen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric R. Dinallo, former chief of New York State's insurance department, gave MBIA permission to split into two units in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Joseph W. Brown Jr., the chief executive of MBIA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MBIA, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); WITNESSES (86%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (74%); INSURANCE BENEFICIARIES (73%); SOLVENCY RATIO (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TESTIMONY (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); EVIDENCE (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); JUDGES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



337 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: In a City With Record Housing Prices, Nowhere to Go but Up

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
Construction crews at the corner of 15th and Mission Streets in San Francisco are transforming the site of a blighted printing factory into an upscale apartment complex. With 202 units, retail space and secured bicycle parking for each home, it will be one of the largest such projects in the Mission.
Most important, with the city facing record housing prices that have edged out all but the rich, 20 percent of the units will be reserved for lower-income renters. 
''We always include affordable housing,'' said Eric Tao, a manager at Avant Housing, the project's developer, ''to do what's right for the city.''
Such a commitment to new affordable housing is increasingly rare, however, as ordinances that once encouraged ''inclusionary housing'' -- projects like Avant's that combine market-rate apartments with units reserved for people on lesser incomes -- have become watered down.
The situation is emblematic of shifts sweeping the area, which is one of the nation's most expensive housing markets, driven by a surging tech sector as well as changes in government policy. City leaders are in the midst of developing new strategies to address affordable housing needs.
But housing is one of the most contentious issues in a city that likes a good fight, and any ideas are sure to face pushback.
Since 2002, the city has offered incentives to commercial developers to include units for low-income residents in their projects. But in 2010, it changed its rules to create more leeway for developers to pay fees instead of including the units, and possibly profit more in the hot rental market.
Before that change, 75 percent of new construction projects included affordable units. Now the majority of projects receiving permits, 55 percent, opt out, according to a January report by the city's budget and legislative analyst.
More developers have chosen to pay the fee, ''rather than construct inclusionary affordable housing,'' the report concluded.
While those fees do go toward building affordable housing elsewhere, many experts argue that the process is slower than private sector inclusionary projects. Further complicating matters are continuing cuts in federal and state financing to the city for affordable housing, which dropped to $56 million annually in 2011 from $104 million in 2007, a decrease of 46 percent.
With urgency mounting, Mayor Edwin M. Lee has created the Housing Trust Fund Working Group, consisting of city officials, developers and community leaders, to find ways to develop affordable housing.
But there are many challenges:
For-profit ventures alone are unlikely to succeed. Because of the recession and tightened lending rules -- coupled with higher costs of building in the city (in part due to municipal fees) -- private banks are likely to finance only luxury housing for the wealthy, experts said.
Adding more housing of all types -- rentals and private homes -- could stabilize prices or drive them down. But a city analysis estimated that it would take 100,000 new units, and only about 2,700 are in development.
And there is the city's storied predisposition to oppose any change, or even discuss issues.
That view was apparent last month after I wrote a column about what some see as the unintended consequences of the city's rent control laws: subsidies for the rich, inadequate protections for the poor, and thousands of rental units kept vacant by frustrated landlords.
An avalanche of vitriol followed, along with a record number of comments on the Bay Citizen Web site (some longer than the column), revealing long-simmering resentments by tenants weary of high rents and property owners who feel unfairly demonized.
Ken Cleaveland, director of government and public affairs for the Building Owners and Managers Association of San Francisco, a commercial real estate group, said the city must move past such divisions with ''a combination of private and public means'' to address affordable housing.
S. Osborn Erickson, chairman of Emerald Fund, a local developer, and a member of the mayor's housing group, agreed. One example is his company's project at 333 Harrison Street. Financed partially by a state grant, there will be 326 units, 49 of them affordable housing with rents that could be as little as $600 a month for a one-bedroom apartment.
But with such inclusionary grants increasingly rare, Mr. Erickson said other ideas are needed -- he is looking up, literally, to the sky.
He said taller buildings should be allowed in this notoriously low-rise city as a way to increase housing and influence affordability. In existing commercial stretches, ''Why not 80 feet high?'' he asked.
Tamper with the skyline? To some, that's as verboten as debating rent control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A complex going up at 15th and Mission Streets, where 20 percent of the units will be reserved for lower-income renters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT JAMES/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); ORDINANCES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); MAYORS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



338 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 5616 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Jubilation Rumination: Life, Real and Imagined' (through Sept. 2) Having escaped the ugly, West 53rd Street tomb of a building it inhabited from 2001 to 2011, the American Folk Art Museum has reoccupied its old space on Lincoln Square. This wonderful show of about 100 works from the permanent collection samples all the varieties of artistic expression under the museum's purview, from portraits and quilts by anonymous craftspeople to otherworldly fantasies envisioned by so-called Outsiders like Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. The revival of this irreplaceable institution is cause of rejoicing. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Asia Society and Museum: 'Sarah Sze: Infinite Line' (through March 25) Promising a new angle on Sarah Sze's mesmerizing, minutely detailed installations, this midcareer solo reveals that Ms. Sze, who is Chinese-American, has been profoundly influenced by many forms of Asian art. It also includes some of her rarely exhibited drawings and encourages you to see her three-dimensional artworks as drawings in space. Implicitly, it de-emphasizes the prosaic nature of her art materials: the cotton swabs, toothpicks, bottle caps and other throwaway objects that she fashions, with gee-whiz structural ingenuity, into rambling landscapes and galactic spirals. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'Juan Downey: The Invisible Architect' (through May 20) In the wilder moments of his career, Mr. Downey, who died of cancer in 1993 at the age of 53, and is getting his first United States museum retrospective here, reversed the traditional dynamic of sculpture, examining how humans could affect objects rather than the other way around; administered oxygen to pedestrians on the street in New York in ''Fresh Air'' (1972); and cohabitated as a kind of gonzo anthropologist -- or early implementer of art as social practice -- with the Yanomami Indians in Venezuela. Central to his vision, which drew on Frederick Kubler, critical theory, and hallucinogenic states of mind, Mr. Downey also developed a concept of ''invisible architecture'' which he described in 1973 as ''an attitude of total communication within which ultra-developed minds will be telepathically cellular to an electromagnetic whole.'' 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener)
- Brooklyn Museum: 'African Innovations' (continuing) The museum has done some reshuffling on its first floor, and the African galleries, which once claimed a privileged spot next to the lobby, are now relocated a distance away and reduced in size. But the new display, ''African Innovations,'' is effective. It eliminates the graphic overkill of the former installation; sets out work with an easily graspable logic; and over all shows the African holdings to decent advantage. It would be pretty hard not to. The collection is spectacular, an institutional treasure. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
- The Cloisters: 'The Game of Kings: Medieval Ivory Chessmen From the Isle of Lewis' (through April 22) In 1831, a farmer on the Isle of Lewis, the largest island of the Outer Hebrides, discovered a lost cache of medieval chess pieces. Today, thanks to ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,'' in which Harry and Ron play with magically animated replicas of them, the Lewis Chessmen are world famous. On tour from the British Museum, these adorable, bug-eyed little kings, queens, bishops, knights and warders, each beautifully carved from walrus ivory, are wonderful to examine up close. You don't have to be a chess player or a Harry Potter fan to love them. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Frick Collection: 'A Passion for Drawings: Charles Ryskamp's Bequest to the Frick Collection' (through April 8) Modern museums have their origins in the German wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities: collections of objects assembled by European aristocrats. The cabinet at the Frick doesn't hold the same range of marvels, but the current show of 10 drawings donated by Charles Ryskamp, a former Frick director, functions almost like a wunderkammer. There is a botanical watercolor by Pierre-Joseph Redoute, who worked for Marie Antoinette before the French Revolution and Empress Josephine afterward; a watercolor by Eugene Delacroix from his first journey to North Africa; a William Blake drawing created during a seance; and George Stubbs's portrait of Warren Hastings, first governor-general of India under British colonial rule, as Hastings was being prosecuted for corruption. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Schwendener)
- Frick Collection: 'Renoir, Impressionism and Full-Length Painting' (through May 13) Impressionism, like fashion, is dedicated to the fleeting sensation: this moment's light, this season's dress. Yet the works in this exhibition, which transforms the Frick's mohair-upholstered East Gallery into a runway for Renoir's soigne Parisians, don't at first register as Impressionist. With their traditional portrait format and imposing scale, they seem at odds with the modest plein-air paintings that define the movement. Central among them is the Frick's own Renoir, ''La Promenade'' (1875-6), in which a stylish young woman guides two equally well-dressed little girls along a public garden path. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (osenberg)
Frick Collection: 'White Gold: Highlights From the Arnhold Collection of Meissen Porcelain' (through April 29) Porcelain lovers will not want to miss this show of domestic ware made in Germany in the early 1700s, but the big news is the new wing, the Portico Gallery, that it inaugurates. The Frick has transformed an outdoor colonnade into an indoor exhibition space. Floor-to-ceiling windows enclose a long, narrow space that feels bigger and airier than its actual 850 square feet. In the small rotunda at one end, a life-size, nude Diana by Jean-Antoine Houdon looks out over the traffic on Fifth Avenue with divine indifference. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
- Guggenheim Museum: 'John Chamberlain: Choices' (through May 13) The postwar sculptor John Chamberlain, who died in December, manipulated crushed car parts into abstract clusters that are both gorgeous and terrifying. As installed on the Guggenheim Museum's curved ramps for this full-dress retrospective, they look, inevitably, like mangled wrecks on a speedway. Yet the show goes to great lengths to extricate Mr. Chamberlain from what he called ''the car-crash syndrome.'' It includes work made from foam, aluminum foil, paper and plexiglass, and it emphasizes the collage process behind the metal sculptures rather than the material that went into them. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
International Center of Photography: 'The Loving Story: Photographs by Grey Villet' (through May 6) Richard and Mildred Loving, an interracial couple from Virginia whose marriage prompted a benchmark 1967 Supreme Court ruling overturning state miscegenation laws, are portrayed not as political activists, but as political heroes who fell into history by accident. The story began on July 11, 1958, when a Virginia county sheriff and two deputies entered the Lovings' bedroom at 2 a.m. and arrested them, saying they had violated the Racial Integrity Act. Mr. Villet's images represent the heyday of social documentary, but also the midcentury photo-essay format. Ms. Loving later became a conscious activist when, on the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling, she made a statement supporting the right to marry, whether ''black or white, young or old, gay or straight.'' 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Schwendener)
- International Center of Photography: 'Weegee: Murder Is My Business' (through Sept. 2) From the home of Weegee's voluminous archive, the latest exhibition about this great documentary photographer (1899-1968) revisits his frenetic, formative first decade of work, starting in 1935, when his often sensational images of murder and mayhem appeared in New York's daily newspapers. His penchant for self-promotion; the work of his competitors and peers; the evolution of tabloid journalism; and the great city that was both his subject and his audience are emphasized, with fresh curatorial precision and deftly used touch screens. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Roberta Smith)
- Jewish Museum: 'The Radical Camera: New York's Photo League, 1936-1951' (through March 25) One of many artistic casualties of the McCarthy-era blacklists was the Photo League, a New York school and salon for amateur and professional photographers. Its members -- among them Weegee, Lisette Model and Aaron Siskind -- are now reunited in this stirring show, which traces the group's history through some 145 vintage photographs. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Art in an Age of Revolution: Fu Baoshi (1904-1965)' (through April 15) Serene on the surface but less so underneath, the museum's first full-dress retrospective of a 20th-century Chinese painter is as much about history as art history. It focuses on an artist, teacher and art historian who helped preserve the ancient tradition of ink painting and then struggled to make it relevant under the Communists, bending it toward propaganda, introducing a new degree of realism and making frequent use of the color red. While fascinating, the show leaves you wondering what he might have accomplished under less encumbered circumstances. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Rembrandt and Degas: Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man' (through May 20) This lovely small show, focused on self-portrait paintings and prints, proposes that Rembrandt was a greater influence on Degas than has generally been recognized. Degas as a young man studied Rembrandt prints, copied at least one and made others imitating Rembrandt-type effects. But a group of four captivating self-portraits at the heart of the show -- two by each artist painted at age 23 -- suggests that the men were temperamentally about as alike as a cat and a dog. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Renaissance Portrait From Donatello to Bellini' (through March 18) This magisterial, intensely thought-provoking show presents about 160 works by the most celebrated masters of 15th-century Italian painting and sculpture. It was a time when ancient Greek and Roman precedents inspired artists to create extraordinarily lively images of people in two and three dimensions. The dialogue between painting and sculpture is especially intriguing. Desiderio da Settignano's marble bust of a lovely young woman with a strikingly expressive, coquettish expression creates an illusion of fleeting real life that painters could only envy. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Spies in the House of Art: Photography, Film, and Video' (through Aug. 26) This exhibition of 17 contemporary works inspired by museums doesn't mention Theodor Adorno by name, but it nods toward his ideas in a wall text, which jokes that artists often see museums as ''mausoleums, places where art goes to die.'' Andrea Fraser's video ''Museum Highlights: A Gallery Talk'' (1989) leans toward the anti-museum view, while a 16mm film by Nashashibi/Skaer, the duo of British artists Rosalind Nashashibi and Lucy Skaer, made by gliding through the Met in the dark with a camera and a flash strobe, treats the museum like a darkened crypt. Lutz Bacher's video offers another museum tour, while the museum appears in poetically distorted form in photographs by John Pilson, Tim Davis and Lothar Baumgarten. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Storytelling in Japanese Art' (through May 6) An uncannily contemporary sense of fluidity, action and emotion courses throughout this captivating exhibition, which traces the Japanese penchant for narrative through hand scrolls, hanging scrolls and books, on to the expanded field of folding screens. The sublime 13th-century ''Illustrated Legends of the Kitano Tenjin Shrine'' alone is a must-see: its five hand scrolls constitute one of the Met's greatest paintings and have never before been shown together. Return visits are merited. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
- MoMA PS1: 'Henry Taylor' (through April 9) Mr. Taylor, who lives in Los Angeles, paints fast, loose and sensuously on canvases great and small. Portraiture is his work's center of gravity, African-American life his subject. With exuberant generosity, he portrays friends, relatives, acquaintances from the art world and off the street and heroes of sports and politics. Along the way, he takes in downbeat cityscapes patrolled by cop cars and envisions allegories of spiritual trauma in the Land of the Free. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Rembrandt's World: Dutch Drawings From the Clement C. Moore Collection' (through April 29) You won't see much of Rembrandt in this exhibition of about 90 works on paper, which includes just four drawings attributed to that master. What the show lacks in star power, though, it makes up for with a keen, all-encompassing look at life in the Dutch Republic during its Golden Age (which corresponds, roughly, to the 17th century). Seascapes assert naval dominance; genre scenes show bustling markets and tipsy taverngoers; botanical illustrations tell cautionary tales about economic speculation. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Dan Flavin: Drawing' (through July 1) The artist Dan Flavin (1933-96) is so closely identified with his signature medium, the fluorescent light sculpture, that a show of his drawings is bound to surprise. And it's particularly exciting to find that Flavin was not only a devoted draftsman but also a freewheeling polymath on paper. The Morgan's show includes drawings from Flavin's personal collection, which encompasses Hokusai, Mondrian and the Hudson River School and will completely change the way you see his art. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
- El Museo del Barrio: 'Testimonios: 100 Years of Popular Expression' (through May 6) The city's premier museum of Latin culture explores its holdings in urban folk art, so-called handicraft and other forms of vernacular expression and comes up with visual gold. Among the kaleidoscopic displays are Puerto Rican santos and the winsome cellophane animals, birds and insects of Gregorio Marzan (1906-97). Splendid textiles include Haitian voodoo banners; densely appliqued molas and the patchwork scenes called arpilleras, with which Chilean women kept hope alive for disappeared relatives during the regime of Augusto Pinochet. An intoxicating, if sometimes bittersweet, vitality is revealed. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence' (through March 26) This timely and resonant survey familiarizes American audiences with the spare, selfless achievement of this pioneering Croatian artist, born in Zagreb in 1949. Conceptual in style, photo- and performance-based in approach, political in motivation, ardently and precisely feminist, her work makes use of materials at hand -- personal photographs, women's magazines, state-sponsored television, even government surveillance -- to dissect different forms of power and illuminate the plight of the powerless, while also presaging familiar developments in appropriation art and relational aesthetics to a startling degree. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Print/Out' and 'Printin'' ' (through May 14) ''Print/Out'' presents printed works by 40 artists and artist groups from the museum's permanent collection. Produced over the past two decades, most involve public modes of address borrowed from the worlds of advertizing and design and concepts promoting critical suspicion of mainstream media, culture and society. ''Printin','' a related print-focused exhibition, is full of surprises addressing multiple aspects of human experience. With fearless eclecticism, it ranges from a Krazy Kat cartoon by George Herriman to Puritan stocks cut from cardboard by Cady Noland. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Diego Rivera: Murals for the Museum of Modern Art' (through May 14) This show reunites five of the eight free-standing frescoes that Rivera made for a 1931-2 exhibition at MoMA. Some of these paintings seem ripped from current headlines. In ''The Uprising,'' protesting laborers are brutally suppressed by uniformed soldiers; the stratified New York cityscape of ''Frozen Assets'' tops a bank vault with a crowded homeless shelter. Timely as they are, they lack the multitudinous energy and narrative sweep of Rivera's permanently sited murals. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Cindy Sherman' (through June 11) Aided by ever-shifting arrays of costumes, wigs, makeup, props, masks and prosthetic body parts, the leading light of postmodern photo-based art spent nearly four decades turning photography against itself, laying waste to a lexicon of mostly female stereotypes and exposing both the tyranny and the inner lives of the images of women that bombard and shape us all at every turn. This retrospective could have been larger, more clearly organized and less familiar, but its strengths, like the achievement it honors, are undeniable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of the City of New York: 'Cecil Beaton: The New York Years' (through April 22) A British dandy in the Wildean mold, Beaton photographed fashion for Vogue and Vanity Fair; made photographic portraits of rich, famous and glamorous people; drew and painted cartoons, caricatures, fashion illustrations and theatrical sets with a deft hand; published six volumes of his diaries; and won two Oscars for his costume and set designs, for the Hollywood movies ''Gigi'' and ''My Fair Lady.'' He spent much time in New York, and this entertaining exhibition surveys what he did here during his five-decade career. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
Neue Galerie: 'The Ronald S. Lauder Collection: Selections From the 3rd Century B.C. to the 20th Century/Germany, Austria and France' (through April 2) Since it opened 10 years ago, the Neue Galerie has stayed true to its narrowly focused mission: to showcase German and Austrian art and design of the early 20th century. But its anniversary exhibition of the collection of the co-founder Ronald S. Lauder covers much more territory. In the dark-wood-paneled gallery on the second floor, for instance, six paintings by Cezanne preside over an imposing installation of arms and armor and 15th- and 16th-century German and Netherlandish portraiture. And a third-floor gallery of Picasso, Matisse and Brancusi amounts to a mini-Museum of Modern Art improbably wedged into a Carrere-and-Hastings town house. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (osenberg)
New Museum: 'The Ungovernables: 2012 New Museum Triennial' (through April 22) The second edition of this survey of young talent, organized by Eungie Joo, is more international than the last one, with artists from Asia and South America and collectives from Africa and the Middle East. Much of the work is made up of small, light formal gestures, unemphatic in tone and socially engaged, though in an unperturbed way that accommodates friendliness and wit. There is also a schedule of performances on- and off-site. An Israeli collective, Public Movement, will stage topical debates around town. Yet another collective, House of Natural Fiber, from Indonesia, plans to demonstrate technology for producing alcoholic beverages and electronic music simultaneously. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
Noguchi Museum: 'Civic Action: A Vision for Long Island City' (through April 22) Several artists suggest their visions for the future of Long Island City, ranging from site-specific to silly. Natalie Jeremijenko's ''feral robots'' sniff out pollutants in contaminated soil, and she suggests hula hoops filled with wildflower seeds. Rirkrit Tiravanija proposes growing ''drivable'' grass along a section of Broadway, and Mary Miss focuses on four giant smokestacks that tower over the area and imagines them as an eco-feedback center registering environmental changes visible to the community. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Schwendener)
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Whitney Biennial 2012' (through May 27) With remarkable clarity of vision, striking spatial intelligence and a generous stylistic inclusiveness, one of the best Whitney Biennials in recent memory confidently weaves together art objects and time-based art -- dance, theater and performance as well as film and video -- on a scale unprecedented in New York. So doing, this especially poetic incarnation also reinvents the museum's signature show and places future biennial curators in its debt, while offering the out-of-control, money-saturated art world a bit of redemption. Visit early and often. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Galleries: Uptown
'Hats: An Anthology by Stephen Jones' (through April 15) This wide-ranging survey was assembled by one of the leading milliners in Britain and draws heavily on the incomparable collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum. It includes fascinating historical material; a survey of 20th- and 21st-century headgear at its most creative (and often most frivolous); and rather too many efforts by the show's organizer. But what's good is great: for example, a platterlike feather number from 18th-century London. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Eric Fischl: 'Portraits' (through March 17) As the Occupy Wall Street movement continues to agitate against grotesque concentrations of wealth at the top end of the social food chain, Mr. Fischl is having this lavish, two-gallery exhibition of two decades worth of portraits of the rich, powerful and famous friends and benefactors, including Steve Martin, Eli Broad and Stephanie Seymour. What, any sentient viewer must wonder, were he and Mary Boone thinking? Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue and 541 West 24 Street, (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com. (Johnson)
Elaine Reichek: 'Ariadne's Thread' (through March 24) Ariadne, the clever heroine of Greek myth whose ball of thread helped Theseus escape from the Minotaur's labyrinth, makes an ideal subject for Elaine Reichek (who has been working with thread since the 1970s and has a large-scale tapestry in the current Whitney Biennial). In this show she uses digital and hand embroidery and silk-screen process to reproduce a wide range of images and literary quotations relating to Ariadne. Keeping this exercise from becoming pedantic, Ms. Reicheck finds elements of the myth where we least expect them: in comic books and the film ''The Shining,'' for instance. Nicole Klagsbrun Project Space, 534 West 24th Street, (212) 243-3335, nicoleklagsbrun.com. (Rosenberg)
- Terry Winters: 'Cricket Music, Tessellation Figures, & Notebook' (through April 14) Terry Winters's new, vigorously painted abstractions are ravishing. As if to defend against anti-hedonist judgment, Mr. Winters also offers a series of notebook collages combining scientific and quasi-scientific imagery in Matthew Marks's small exhibition space at 502 West 22nd Street. They are interesting, but the paintings of flickering, warping, spiraling and tunneling diamond patterns in hot and cool colors are the real trip. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 and 502 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Johnson)
- Catherine Yass: 'Lighthouse' (through March 17) Five miles off the English coast rises from the sea the Royal Sovereign lighthouse. Its boxy white cabin seems precariously balanced on a single concrete pillar. The light tower tops out at 90 feet above sea level. This is the subject of ''Lighthouse,'' a spectacular, 12-minute movie by Ms. Yass, a British specialist in the sublime. We explore the edifice as if through a disembodied eye from near and far and above and below. It is a kinetically and poetically thrilling ride. Galerie Lelong, 528 West 26th Street, (212) 315-0470, galerielelong.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Other
- 'The Brucennial 2012: Harderer. Betterer. Fasterer. Strongerer.' (through April 20) Organized by the collective of anonymous artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation, this jampacked, multifloor exhibition displays paintings, sculptures, videos and more by close to 400 artists. A radically inclusive survey of what artists in New York really are doing outside the filtering systems of galleries, museums and curators, it is by turns exhilarating, numbing and depressing. Don't miss it. 159 Bleecker Street, at Thompson Street, Greenwich Village, thebrucehighqualityfoundation.com, (Johnson)
'Gran Fury: Ready My Lips' (through March 17) A collective that grew out of Act Up and took its name from a New York City police car, Gran Fury existed from the end of 1989 until the mid-'90s. The political climate of that period informs the show, as well as downtown Manhattan's landscape of graffiti, posters and stickers. ''Kissing Doesn't Kill'' (1990), a series of posters displayed on buses, defied contemporary claims that AIDS could be spread by kissing, while ''Read My Lips'' turned George H.W. Bush's famous campaign line into a homoerotic provocation. The haircuts and clothes in the works are dated, but the sentiments overlap powerfully with current activism and the Occupy movement. 80WSE, New York University, 80 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-5747, steinhardt.nyu.edu/80wse. (Schwendener)
- Duro Olowu: 'Material' (through March 31) Assembled by the London fashion designer Duro Olowu, this amalgam of art, artifacts, furniture, jewelry, photographs, books and garments offers an inspired antidote to the ultra-Conceptual, undervisual, often color-free curatorial approach frequent to New York gallery group shows. It moves across time and continents, makes illuminating juxtapositions and includes invigorating feats of recycling. Mr. Olowu's dresses, which typically and distinctively combine bold, contrasting printed fabrics, encapsulate the paradisiacal culture clash that rules the room. Salon 94 Freemans, 1 Freeman Alley, between the Bowery and Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 529-7400, salon94.com. (Smith)
'Soto: Paris and Beyond: 1950-1970' (through March 31) Once a figure of international renown, Jesus Soto is now mostly remembered as a minor Modernist who worked in the overlap among hard-edge abstraction, kinetic art and Op Art. This show will not precipitate a run to revive his reputation, but it does open an intriguing window on the mid-20th-century philosophical landscape of Modern art. Still perceptually arresting are constructions from the '50s, in which you view abstract compositions through similarly painted plexiglass panels. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
Ryan Sullivan (through March 17) The abstract paintings in this stylish and over-full New York gallery debut bend over backward to avoid the conventional, supposedly old-school ploys like adroit brushwork, replacing such familiar tactics with carefully controlled processes of sprayed, poured, festering, rippled and sliding paint that bespeak randomness and chance while evoking Photo Realism, topographical maps and even trompe l'oeil. Eminently promising, they nonetheless look excessively refined and skillful, and more mannered than they should be. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net. Smith)
Out Of Town
Neuberger Museum of Art: 'American Vanguards: Graham, Davis, Gorky, de Kooning, and Their Circle, 1927-1942' (through April 29) This exhibition, organized by the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass., reunites the Four Musketeers of New York painting: John Graham, Arshile Gorky, Stuart Davis and Willem de Kooning. For a time -- the 1930s, give or take a few years -- these artists linked arms to defend modern American art against the dreariness and insularity of the Depression. One might see this show as an expansion of the first few galleries of the Museum of Modern Art's recent de Kooning retrospective, with their eerie still lifes and fidgety figure paintings that seemed to collapse abstraction and representation. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Rosenberg)
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts: 'Henry Ossawa Tanner: Modern Spirit' (through April 15) Henry Ossawa Tanner (1859-1937) was the first African-American artist to achieve international fame in modern times. After permanently expatriating to France in 1891, he found success as a painter of luminous pictures of biblical subjects. In this informative survey of his career, one piece stands out: an Annunciation in which the angel Gabriel appears to Mary as a burst of yellow light. It is a painting of amazing grace. 118 North Broad Street, Philadelphia, (215) 972-7600, pafa.org. Johnson)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Zoe Strauss: Ten Years' (through April 22) In 2001 the artist Zoe Strauss came up with an unusual idea for an exhibition. It would take place under an elevated section of Interstate 95, in her home city, Philadelphia, and would consist of photographs mounted on the columns that supported the highway. It would be a recurring event, appearing yearly over a decade, and would be free and accessible to the public. That series, ''I-95,'' is at the core of ''Zoe Strauss: Ten Years,'' an engaging, parameter-expanding exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and on billboards around the city. In it, the highway links sweeping literary ambition and local interest, lyrical and documentary photography, portraiture and the urban landscape. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Van Gogh Up Close' (through May 6) Nature both inspired van Gogh's extraordinary art and calmed his perpetually jangled nerves, and this modest yet groundbreaking show of 45 often small, unfamiliar canvases -- devoted almost entirely to landscapes -- examines his crucial connection to its bounty. The selection cuts a narrow, well-organized path through his art, examining the terrains he painted, the often close-up viewpoints he used and the shifting topographies of his paint textures, leading us to the fullness of his achievement along a fresh and eye-opening route. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
Last Chance
John Miller: 'Suburban Past Time' (closes on Saturday) Mr. Miller's latest installation incorporates metal filing cabinets painted in gaudy, hot-rod finishes; fake rocks and trees of the sort that disguise pool equipment; and black-and-white wallpaper printed with forgettable architecture (an apartment block in Berlin, a resort in Majorca). On Saturdays two people inhabit this sterile Anytown, not interacting much with each other or with the gallery visitors. A separate project, a series of animations, fuses loneliness and tastelessness in more provocative ways; here Mr. Miller and a collaborator -- the online artist and curator Takuji Kogo -- set text from personal ads to robotic-sounding digital voice recordings. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com. (Rosenberg)
Kay Rosen: 'Wide and Deep' (closed on Saturday) The big, gray, block letters extending almost 45 feet across one gallery wall spell ''Kandahar.'' To the far left, there is a white ''C'' and, to the right, a white ''D.'' The title of this mind-stretching mural explains what is missing: ''Between a Rock and a Hard Place.'' Many other examples large and small of Ms. Rosen's wizardly play between the visual and the verbal are also on view. Sikkema Jenkins & Company, 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Johnson)
- Studio Museum in Harlem: 'The Bearden Project' (closes on Sunday) Of the many New York City events celebrating the Romare Bearden centennial year, the Studio Museum has come up with the best in this sparkling cross-generational shout-out to the artist. In addition to a small handful of superb works by Bearden himself, the show is made up of tributes by a hundred contemporary artists, old and young, who together extend Bearden's cosmopolitan, griot-to-the-global-village spirit into the future. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'JUBILATIONRUMINATION: LIFE, REAL AND IMAGINED': (through Sept. 2) Having escaped the uglyWest 53rd Street tomb of a building it inhabited from 2001 to 2011, the American Folk Art Museum has reoccupied its old space on Lincoln Square. This wonderful show of about 100 works from the permanent collection samples all the varieties of artistic expression under the museum's purview, from portraits and quilts by anonymous crafts artists to otherworldly fantasies envisioned by so-called Outsiders like Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. Above are standing figures made from soda bottle tops by Clarence and Grace Woolsey. The revival of this irreplaceable institution is cause for rejoicing. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



339 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Activist Investor Charts Plan to Revitalize Yahoo

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Daniel S. Loeb is getting back into the activist arena.
After spending years working behind the scenes to push for change, the hedge fund manager is once again openly admonishing management and battling a corporate board. The target: Yahoo.
His firm, Third Point, has amassed a 6 percent stake in the struggling Internet company, and he intends to propose a slate of four directors, including himself, at the company's annual meeting. He has also sketched out a turnaround strategy for Yahoo that does not necessarily match management's vision.
It's his first real activist campaign in nearly five years.
''He acts in our interest,'' said Robert L. Chapman Jr., the founder of Chapman Capital, which owns a 2 percent stake in Yahoo. ''Because if the stock tanks, no one gets hurt more than Dan.'' 
Yahoo is paying attention. In February, a month after being named chief executive, Scott Thompson called Mr. Loeb, according to people with knowledge of the matter. They have spoken several times since then, discussing Yahoo's relationship with advertisers, the display advertising business and other strategic issues.
But tensions are rising. Despite the overtures, Yahoo is not ready to capitulate to Mr. Loeb's demands. Directors have called Mr. Loeb's candidates, but the interviews were interpreted as brief and perfunctory, according to people close to Mr. Loeb.
In early February, Yahoo named two new directors with no advertising experience. The hedge fund manager interpreted the action as a move away from Yahoo's primary business. In a recent filing, he said it reflects the ''dearth of essential expertise in media and entertainment at the board level.''
Mr. Loeb was also concerned about Yahoo's recent threat of legal action against Facebook over patents, according to the people.
It's familiar territory for Mr. Loeb, who now oversees $8.9 billion. A former Citigroup vice president, he founded Third Point in 1995, developing his own brand of activism. Known for his sharp pen and his acerbic wit, he agitated change at several companies, including Agribrands, the animal feed maker, and Massey Energy, the coal mining company. In a 2005 letter to Star Gas Partners, a fuel distributor, Mr. Loeb called its chief, Irik P. Sevin, ''one of the most dangerous and incompetent executives in America.'' Mr. Sevin resigned shortly after that letter.
As Third Point has grown, Mr. Loeb has toned down his rhetoric. Since the financial crisis, he has largely focused on reorganization opportunities, like Delphi Automotive, the auto parts maker, and chemicals giant LyondellBasell Industries, both of which have emerged from bankruptcy in recent years.
Then in the middle of 2011, he started to amass a large stake in Yahoo. At first, it was a pure valuation play. The stock was then trading at $11, roughly a third of the value of Microsoft's ill-fated bid for Yahoo in 2008.
After a series of perceived missteps by the board - in particular the way the co-founder Jerry Yang courted private equity suitors - Mr. Loeb decided to take a more aggressive posture. He now owns more than $1 billion worth of Yahoo stock.
His campaign comes as his personal interest in technology grows. The hedge fund manager - a technology neophyte who bought his first iPhone last year - adopted up-and-coming mobile applications, like Instagram, the photo-sharing service.
Last summer, Mr. Loeb was surprised to discover that someone had adopted his persona on Twitter under the handle ''danloeb'' Disappointed that the fake Mr. Loeb's postings were not witty, he reported the incident to Twitter, according to people close to him. The person switched the handle to ''notdanloeb.''
Mr. Loeb has also made frequent trips to Silicon Valley. He sought advice from - and at times courted as board candidates - notable names, like Marc Andreessen, the head of the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz; Mary Meeker, the former Morgan Stanley star analyst who now works at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; and Daniel Rosensweig, the former chief operating officer of Yahoo and current head of Chegg.
Over the last few months, Mr. Loeb has been devising a strategy for Yahoo. He believes it should focus on its core media and advertising business, according to the people close to him.
The crux of Mr. Loeb's frustrations, according to Third Point's filings, is his lack of confidence in the board's ability to grow Yahoo's ad sales. While the Internet company remains one of the most popular portals on the Web, it is ceding market share to rivals Facebook and Google.
To help make up ground, Mr. Loeb is calling for Yahoo to focus on the search ad businesses and to develop a social community and a robust, video platform. In a presentation to Yahoo Mr. Loeb described his proposed candidates, highlighting one, Jeff Zucker, the former chief of NBCUniversal, for his role in building Hulu, which the hedge fund manager sees as a potentially attractive partner or target for Yahoo.
Similarly, Mr. Loeb said he picked another candidate, Michael J. Wolf, the founder of Activate, a media consulting firm, because of his media and technology contacts and his reputation as a ''talent spotter.''
''Yahoo has some 700 million visitors per month,'' said Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Company. ''It's a matter of figuring out how to properly monetize them.''
Mr. Loeb has also indicated that Yahoo needs to be aggressive in its cost-cutting, including reducing its payroll of 14,100.
The final board candidate, Harry Wilson, a turnaround specialist, was one of the architects of the restructuring plan for General Motors.
Mr. Loeb said the G.M. ''process is directly relevant to Yahoo,'' according to documents Third Point sent to Yahoo's board.
Yahoo, which recently hired the Boston Consulting Group to review its operations, is in the process of culling its staff, two people with knowledge of the situation said.
In some ways, Mr. Loeb's vision runs counter to the new chief, Mr. Thompson. The former president of Paypal, Mr. Thompson has expressed a desire to push Yahoo into new businesses, while Mr. Loeb wants to stay focused on its media business. ''We need to innovate and disrupt, and not just in the areas where we've always been,'' Mr. Thompson said in a recent conference call.
''Yahoo needs to decide: Does it want to be a media company with a digital front end or a technology company that has an advertising business?'' said Jordan Rohan, a Stifel Nicolaus analyst. ''In other words, are they competing against Google, Apple and Facebook, or media companies?''
With Yahoo management and Mr. Loeb at odds, a bitter proxy fight may be inevitable. But given the high rate of defections and complaints of low morale, some wonder whether another public brawl will do more damage than good - and hurt Mr. Loeb's investment in the end.
''The worst thing for Yahoo is to have more fights,'' said Martin Sorrell, the head of WPP, the giant advertising agency.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As the founder of Third Point Capital, Daniel S. Loeb oversees $8.9 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS) (B1)
 Struggling Yahoo recently hired a new chief executive, Scott Thompson, and Boston Consulting Group to review its operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (65%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); MINES & MINING (60%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (60%); ANIMAL FOODS (50%); CHEMICALS (50%); LIVESTOCK FEED (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); COAL MINING (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (52%); STAR GAS PARTNERS LP (52%); MASSEY ENERGY CO (52%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE PLC (51%); LYONDELLBASELL INDUSTRIES NV (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); ANR (NYSE) (52%); SGU (NYSE) (52%); FLR (FRA) (52%); DLPH (NYSE) (51%); LYB (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (52%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (52%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (52%); NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (52%); SIC5984 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (52%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT L THOMPSON (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



340 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Stock Surge Reverses Trend in Wealth of U.S. Households

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Household wealth in the United States, from October through December, climbed for the first time in three quarters as an increase in stock prices outstripped a decline in home values, the Federal Reserve said Thursday. 
Net worth for households and nonprofit groups increased by $1.19 trillion in the fourth quarter, or 2.1 percent from the previous three months, to $58.5 trillion, the Federal Reserve said in its flow of funds report from Washington. Housing wealth decreased by the most in more than a year.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which rose 11 percent in the final three months of 2011, is again climbing this year as the improving job market builds confidence in the expansion. At the same time, the gain in wealth last quarter was less than half the previous period's slump, indicating households may continue to repair balance sheets hurt by the recession.
''The performance of the stock market has been a crutch for households,'' said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. ''Consumer spending is constrained by the need to pay down debt.''
In another report, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits rose to 362,000 last week, a level consistent with an improving labor market.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments increased by 8,000 in the week that ended March 3, the department said. Economists forecast 352,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The average over the past four weeks held close to a four-year low.
''The level of claims is still quite low,'' said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''I'm still encouraged by what we've seen in the labor market in recent months.''
The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure, was little changed at 355,000 claims, from 354,750, which were the fewest since March 2008.
Since reaching a five-year low of $50.5 trillion in the first quarter of 2009, net worth has improved by $8 trillion. That still leaves it $8.4 trillion below the record high of $66.8 trillion, reached in the quarter that ended in June 2007, six months before the recession began.
Household debt rose at an annual rate of 0.3 percent last quarter, the first increase in more than three years, the report said. Mortgage borrowing decreased at a 1.5 percent pace, the 11th consecutive decline. Other forms of consumer credit, including auto and student loans, climbed at a 6.9 percent rate, the biggest gain in at least seven years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (67%); STUDENT LOANS (66%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



341 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: City Joblessness Rises, Yet So Does Hiring

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
If MayorMichael R. Bloomberg were running for office again, he could use the jobs data released on Thursday to his advantage. And so could his opponents.
The negative spin would be obvious: New York City's unemployment rate rose again in January, to a 16-month high, 9.3 percent, from 9.1 percent in December. That was a full percentage point above the national rate, which fell from 8.5 percent in December. (National figures for February are to be released on Friday morning.)
But Mr. Bloomberg could parry with this: The city has been adding jobs at a faster clip than the rest of the country since the start of 2011, according to the results of a separate survey from the State Labor Department. And the gains have been coming across a spectrum of industries, including professional services and finance, education, health care and hospitality. 
''Our job growth is still quite strong,'' said James P. Brown, principal economist with the State Labor Department. ''Our industries have been performing well. They're generating jobs.''
Mr. Brown said the city had rebounded from the deep recession that ended in 2009 without a lot of help from its traditional engine on Wall Street. After recent revisions to the numbers for 2011, the city's economy appears to be less reliant on the securities industry to pull it out of downturns. The data show that the job growth continued through the year even after the big investment banks and trading houses slowed their hiring and began announcing significant layoffs.
The rising unemployment rate is harder to explain, Mr. Brown said. ''It's quite unusual to get strong job growth for a long period of time and not have the unemployment rate go down,'' he said.
The discrepancy results from the different methods of measuring job growth and unemployment. The jobs numbers are derived from a survey of employers, who report monthly changes in their payrolls. The unemployment rate is calculated from a survey of residents, asking if they were working, looking for work or doing neither in recent weeks.
Over time, the two surveys are expected to tell a similar story of growth or contraction. But from month to month, they often seem contradictory, as they do now.
The hazards of trying to measure the city's job market from month to month were illustrated by the scope of the revisions. In the latest report from the Labor Department, the total number of jobs added in the city last year was raised by 40,500, or 1.3 percent.
That change shifted the story of the city's comparative strength. No longer was job growth in the city lagging behind the gains made in the rest of the country. Now, the revised numbers show, the city's private sector gained 71,400 jobs between January 2011 and January 2012. In 2011, the growth rate for employment in the city's private sector was 2.7 percent, much higher than the national rate of 1.7 percent.
Mr. Bloomberg, not surprisingly, emphasized the jobs numbers over the unemployment rate.
''Today's report is further confirmation that, despite the challenges we face, New York City is leading the nation in terms of economic recovery,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We now know that New York City's economy has exceeded previous estimates, fared better than the country as a whole and outperformed other cities.''
Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist with Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services company in Manhattan, was even more sanguine after completing her monthly calculations to adjust the data for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and firing in various industries.
According to Ms. Denham's math, the city added more than 31,000 private-sector jobs in January, one of the biggest gains of any month on record. That increase raised the total number of jobs in the city above the previous record high, set in June 1969.
''It is an understatement to say that these gains exceeded all expectations,'' Ms. Denham said. ''Most have been concerned about Wall Street layoffs when, in reality, the industry added jobs steadily over the last two years.''
Still, Mr. Brown warned that job cuts on Wall Street tend to lag behind their announcement because the companies often stretch out severance payments.
''There are still all these announced job cutbacks out there, and so presumably as we move through 2012, we will see them,'' Mr. Brown said. ''By and large, they are not in the data yet.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



342 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Investors Put Some Muscle Behind Popular Fitness Trend

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Once the fitness craze was Richard Simmons's ''Sweatin' to the Oldies.'' Then, other workouts like Billy Blanks's Tae Bo caught on.
But while many fads have been relegated to VHS tapes in the attic, two big investors are betting that Zumba Fitness, the Latin American dance-based workout, will have staying power. Insight Venture Partners, a New York-based venture capital firm, and the Raine Group, a media and entertainment investment firm, have poured tens of millions of dollars into the fitness company, a deal that values Zumba Fitness, based in Florida, at more than $500 million, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
''Zumba owns its category,'' said Jeff Horing, a partner at Insight. ''The ones that have done well, have done reasonably well, but none have Zumba's scale.'' 
Developed in the 1990s, Zumba has become a breakout hit in recent years. Now, the creators are capitalizing on the craze with media, merchandise and licensing deals.
More than 100,000 instructors, spread across 125 countries, each pay $30 a month to be part of the company's official network, giving them access to new music and choreography. Since 2002, the company has sold more than 10 million instructional tapes and DVDs. The Zumba video game, available on the Nintendo Wii and the Xbox Kinect, has sold more than six million copies. For the devoted, the company also has a line of fluorescent-colored apparel and footwear, with sneakers starting at $75.
The Raine Group, which is backed by Ari Emanuel, the influential chief executive of William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, plans to use its extensive contacts in Asia and the Middle East to expand the brand internationally. In the United States, the company is surveying potential partnerships with television executives and considering developing a regular show around Zumba. It's also preparing to offer its first smartphone app to help students and instructors communicate.
''Zumba is not just a participatory sport, it's an entertainment brand,'' said Joseph Ravitch, a co-founder of the Raine Group. ''Zumba has television, apparel and international opportunities that are underdeveloped.''
Zumba Fitness started by accident more than two decades ago, when Alberto Perez, a dance instructor, forgot music for his aerobics class. Forced to wing it, he used tapes from his personal collection, a hodgepodge of salsa and merengue songs and created dance moves to the rhythms. The workout was a local hit, gaining popularity in Cali, Colombia, before Mr. Perez decamped to Miami in 1999.
In 2001, he met Alberto Perlman, then an unemployed technology entrepreneur still reeling from the dot-com bust. Mr. Perlman's mother, who was taking a class with Mr. Perez, prodded her son to meet with her ''magical'' instructor.
At first, Mr. Perlman wasn't sure what to make of the dancer, who could not speak English and showed up to the meeting in a broken-down 1983 Pontiac. But after watching a class, Mr. Perlman imagined the fitness program, which resembled an ad hoc dance party with catchy music, as the next infomercial hit. He immediately called his longtime friend and business partner, Alberto Aghion, who had heard about Mr. Perez through his sister.
''I felt like I was looking into the window of a nightclub,'' said Mr. Perlman, now the chief executive of Zumba Fitness. ''This guy had taken the experience of Saturday night and turned it into a fitness class on Monday night.''
Later that year, the three men founded Zumba Fitness. The company's initial goal was to make money by selling instructional videos via low-budget infomercials. But Zumba's popularity skyrocketed when it began building a network of instructors a few years later. Over the last four years, the number of weekly Zumba students has surged to 12 million from 1 million, according to data from the company.
Zumba Fitness derives a large amount of revenue from the membership fees it charges fitness instructors. Edmee Cherdieu D'Alexis, a former Equinox fitness manager, built an entire business based on Zumba's brand. Her start-up, Z Club NY, connects Manhattanites with Zumba classes and instructors through an online portal. The company rents locations, manages an elite group of vetted instructors and charges students $19 a class, offering discounts for larger packages.
To build the business, Ms. D'Alexis, who received $100,000 in seed capital, has relied mainly on word-of-mouth marketing and online offers at sites like Groupon. Started in 2011, the club now attracts 1,400 people a month.
''Eight months ago, we were not covering expenses, but now we are,'' Ms. D'Alexis said.
But the exercise trend shows signs of saturation in some markets. In New York alone, there are more than 500 licensed instructors, according to Zumba's Web site. The competency of the instructors can also vary widely. While many of Z Club NY's teachers have years of formal dance training, Zumba Fitness requires instructors only to attend an eight-hour training session to obtain a license.
Zumba's meteoric rise has also created considerable challenges for the company. Counterfeiters have been selling Zumba apparel and pirated DVDs not licensed by Zumba Fitness. In one raid in Britain last year, the company discovered thousands of counterfeit goods worth roughly $1.5 million. Zumba Fitness now has a legal department of 10 people, roughly 5 percent of its total staff, focused on stamping out copyright violations and pursuing instructors who are using the brand without official licenses.
If Zumba becomes more than a fad, it will be in the minority. Many fitness programs flame out after a few years. Tae Bo, a workout that combines tae kwon do and boxing, was huge in the 1990s. Now you can buy the workout tapes for as little as $1.99 on Amazon.
Zumba Fitness hopes to avoid the same fate by exploring new lines of business. It is creating a concert program, which will pair live music and Zumba instruction. It has already organized one-time fitness events featuring contemporary artists like Pit Bull and Wyclef Jean.
For now, momentum is on Zumba's side. Its official Facebook page has attracted more than 3.4 million ''likes'' and fans include Michelle Obama and the singer Jennifer Lopez.
''Zumba is more than a fitness program; it's representative of a whole lifestyle and attitude,'' Mr. Ravitch said. ''Zumba is for dance fitness what Starbucks is for coffee.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edmee Cherdieu D'Alexis, center, teaching a class in Manhattan based on the workout craze Zumba. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (92%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); FOOTWEAR (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); DANCE (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (52%)

COMPANY: INSIGHT VENTURE PARTNERS (57%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); COLOMBIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



343 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Continue to Seek Deal on Banking Secrecy

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY; David Kocieniewski contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
BERN, Switzerland -- In the view of Switzerland's president, her country would sign a deal on banking secrecy with the United States ''tomorrow'' if not for an impasse created by Washington.
''We are ready,'' President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, who is also finance minister, said here on Wednesday. ''We've made a lot of constructive proposals. We could sign it tomorrow if the United States wants to do it.''
Relations between the United States and Switzerland have been troubled by the question of tax evasion since 2008, when American authorities began pursuing UBS, the largest Swiss bank, for helping thousands hide money from the Internal Revenue Service. UBS later settled with the Justice Department, turning over details of 4,450 client accounts and paying a fine of $780 million in exchange for a deferred prosecution agreement.
With their financial sector under global scrutiny, Swiss officials have been working to reach an agreement with Washington that would allow them to retain something of their 1934 banking law, which makes the disclosure of client identities a crime. 
But American authorities have shown little interest in compromise, the Swiss say, and are pursuing criminal investigations of 11 Swiss banks, including Credit Suisse, the second largest.
In a sign of the tough approach Washington is taking, prosecutors in February indicted Wegelin & Company, the oldest Swiss private bank, on charges that it had helped Americans evade $1.2 billion in taxes. That prompted the bank, founded in 1741, to say it was breaking up, raising fears among the Swiss that Washington might pick off others.
The Swiss presidency rotates among the seven members of the country's executive body, the Federal Council, with a different member serving each year. That makes Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf, 55 and a lawyer by training, ''first among equals'' on the council and the face of Switzerland in many international settings.
''We were very surprised by the Wegelin indictment,'' Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said, ''because we understood there to be an implicit agreement that they would not do something like that during the negotiations.''
She said the countries had made ''considerable progress'' toward a global deal in the last few months. An agreement will include deferred prosecution deals against Swiss banks accused of helping American tax evaders, fines and a ''substantial'' transfer of client data to the Internal Revenue Service, she said.
Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said that Switzerland, which accounts for more than one-quarter of the world's offshore wealth, was not prepared to abandon banking secrecy altogether and that the data transfer ''has to take place within the existing legal procedures in both countries.''
''States have rights, and we have to respect that,'' she said, expressing hope that a deal would be reached soon. ''I think it's in the interest of both sides to come to a solution now.''
Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf spoke after the Swiss Parliament on Monday approved a new double-taxation treaty with the United States, under which American authorities will be able to more easily track suspected tax cheats, even without naming names, by asking for information on particular types of suspicious accounts.
Donald S. Beyer Jr., the American ambassador to Switzerland, told Swiss radio this week that it was a ''positive and useful step.''
Paul L. Behling, a partner at the law firm Withers Bergman in New Haven, said that the Swiss Parliament's approval ''eliminates the legal obstacle to a deal'' between the banks and the I.R.S.
Switzerland's banking secrecy law has complicated banks' efforts to resolve the conflict. Another source of friction is the distinction made by the Swiss, and virtually no one else, between tax fraud, a crime here, and tax evasion, which is not.
On the side of the United States, ratification of the double-taxation treaty, signed by the two governments in September 2009, has stalled. Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, has balked at the treaty, arguing that it gives the I.R.S. too much power to intrude without grounds for suspicion of financial crimes.
Mr. Paul's office did not respond to requests for comment. The Treasury and State Departments declined to comment.
''We have a very good relationship with the U.S.A.,'' Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said, noting, for example, that Switzerland represents American interests in Iran and is one of America's largest investors.
''The problem we have now, you shouldn't hang the whole relationship on it,'' she added. ''I believe that's why we can find a solution to this problem.''
Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said that Switzerland was working to improve its reputation with a ''clean-money strategy'' announced in February. The strategy is based on three main elements: new international withholding tax agreements with other countries, improved administrative assistance in international tax cases, and a requirement that Swiss banks scrutinize accounts more closely.
First, she said, the Swiss have to overcome their past sins, settling with the Americans and other governments and persuading doubters of their sincerity.
''Our problem is that we have not been taken seriously,'' she said, though for several years ''we've been doing more than other countries.'' That includes efforts to fight money laundering and insider trading, more than 40 double-taxation agreements with other countries, and the adoption of tough capital standards at too-big-to-fail institutions like Credit Suisse and UBS.
Ms. Widmer-Schlumpf said the Swiss financial sector -- which contributes about 11 percent of the country's gross domestic product and accounts for about 200,000 jobs in a country of fewer than eight million people -- might struggle in the first few years of a more transparent era.
''But in the long term,'' she said, ''we'll gain clients because of the Swiss quality.''
A deal with the United States may not be the model for others, as the United States has a stick -- the threat of denying Swiss banks access to its vast markets -- that others lack. The Swiss-preferred models are the withholding tax deals reached last year with Britain and Germany, which will ensure that taxes are paid without divulging client data.
But those deals have been challenged by the European Commission because, the commission argues, they undermine its efforts to set up deals for automatic information exchange with Switzerland, which does not belong to the European Union. The German Parliament is also threatening to block any bilateral agreement on fairness grounds.
In any case, the writing is on the wall for American tax cheats in Switzerland. Some Swiss banks have been warning American clients that they should either prove they are in compliance with American law or have their accounts closed. They are also recommending that any clients not in compliance should hire a lawyer and enter the I.R.S.'s voluntary disclosure program.
''I tell my clients if they have an undeclared offshore account that it's in their best interest to come back into compliance,'' said Kevin E. Thorn, a tax lawyer in Washington who has helped people navigate the voluntary disclosure program. In practice, he said, that means paying a penalty, now 27.5 percent of the value of the undeclared account, and bringing their records up to date.
''Because if they don't, and the government opens a criminal investigation, they're going to pay a lot more,'' he said, perhaps 50 percent or more of the undeclared account with the cost of fighting a felony charge of tax evasion to boot.
Martin Naville, chief executive of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich, said the hope for Switzerland was that after a deal was reached, ''there will still be some kind of confidentiality or data protection.''
''But protection for tax evaders, I think that part is really gone,'' he added.
Mr. Naville said he was skeptical that a Swiss deal would do much to stop Americans from trying to beat the taxman.
''They'll go to the Channel Islands; they'll go to Singapore,'' he said. ''But no Swiss bank will touch them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf of Switzerland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIAL TREZZINI/E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); PRIVATE BANKING (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



344 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Greek Swap Of Its Debt Appears To Be Secure

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Greece appeared to have clinched a landmark debt restructuring deal with its private sector lenders late Thursday. The deal would clear the way for the release of bailout funds from Europe and the International Monetary Fund that would save the country from default.
Given all the twists and turns in the recent negotiations, and the ups and downs in Greece's long debt struggle, something could still go wrong at the last minute, participants said. But most bond investors and government officials were expecting a positive outcome on the deal, which would help buy additional time for a European crisis that has recently shown signs of cooling down. 
Greek officials said the total number of participants in the deal would be announced at 6 a.m. Friday, London time -- 1 a.m. Friday in New York.
Stock markets in Europe were buoyant Thursday. The interest rates on the government debt of Italy and Spain were down as fears eased that a Greece default might start a panic among holders of other indebted European nations' bonds.
The European Central Bank also had a calming effect when it said on Thursday that it would hold a crucial interest rate steady on signs that the region's economy and financial markets were stabilizing.
According to two officials closely involved in the debt negotiations, the participation rate could surpass 90 percent, a level that few would have predicted weeks ago. Greece will still need to impose so-called collective action clauses -- provisions that will force the holdouts to accept the offer.
But to pull that trigger with a number of 90 percent or better would put Greece in a much better position legally if some investors challenged the swap.
''It's a done deal,'' said Hans Humes, the president and chief investment officer of Greylock Capital Management in New York, whose fund is a member of the committee of banks that negotiated the transaction.
One remaining wild card in the deal was the 20 billion euros ($26.5 billion) of Greek bonds governed by foreign law, which gives creditors better legal protection than the local-law bonds. The foreign-law securities have attracted the attention of potential holdouts, at least some of which are speculators that bought them at a discount on the open market in hopes of extracting a better deal.
Petros Christodoulou, the head of Greece's debt management agency, has told wavering bondholders that there will be no sweetheart deals for holdouts. ''We know what money we have and we know what money we don't have,'' he said during a recent interview. ''My blood curdles to think what happens if this deal does not get done.''
The Institute of International Finance, the global banking body that has represented private bondholders in the discussion, circulated a confidential memorandum to European leaders recently estimating that a disorderly default by Greece, which could result in the nation's departure from the 17-nation euro monetary union, could result in losses to banks, corporations and governments of as much as a trillion euros.
Although many considered the memo a scare tactic, it nevertheless seemed to have had an effect on some of the potential holdouts. When the alternative was put in such stark terms, many investors evidently concluded it would be better to accept the swap -- giving them a package of foreign-law Greek bonds, as well as securities from Europe's financial rescue fund -- than to end up with nearly worthless bonds subject to Greek law.
The value of Greek 10-year bonds recently hit a record low of 16 cents on the euro.
''This is the best offer they can make to investors,'' said Ioannis Sokos, a bond analyst at BNP Paribas. ''Because at the end of the day Greece has no cash.''
Still, many foreign investors say they believe that even with a successful debt swap, the Greek debt burden will remain untenable -- well above the 120 percent of Greece's gross domestic product that the I.M.F. considers the highest sustainable level. And with the Greek economy still in free fall and the makeup of the next government uncertain, many analysts contend that Athens may have to restructure its debt yet again within a year or so.
Against that possibility, some hedge funds and other investors are already talking about the prospect of eventually buying the new foreign-law bonds at rock-bottom prices and then fighting Greece in courts outside the country in hopes of earning a handsome profit.
A successful swap deal right now would also leave much of Greece's debt in the hands of official lenders like the European Central Bank and the I.M.F. Those institutions might ultimately face large losses themselves if Greece cannot find a way to manage its finances without further bailouts.
Legal analysts contend that the Greek government's recent strategy of bluntly emphasizing the cost of not participating in the swap deal has been a significant factor behind its coming together so quickly.
''What is remarkable is the speed with which this has been executed -- that is unprecedented,'' said Michael Waibel, an expert on sovereign debt law at Cambridge. ''And this very well may have been done by design.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Greece's finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, center, arriving for a meeting in Athens as a debt swap deal neared conclusion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KOLESIDIS/REUTERS)
 Graffiti critical of banks sprayed outside a bank branch in Athens. The restructuring deal would be the largest in history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOSTAS TSIRONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EURO (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INTERVIEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) GREECE (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



345 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly Open Arms

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
AIZU-WAKAMATSU, Japan -- Mayor Shohei Muroi knows it is a tough sell to get new companies to invest in this struggling industrial city just 60 miles from Japan's most notorious nuclear plant.
So in September, Mr. Muroi did the unthinkable. He flew to China to ask a fast-growing maker of heavy machinery to set up shop in his town. His move was a stark role reversal in a nation more accustomed to sending factory jobs to China, rather than recruiting them to move the other way.
''We've come to a point in Japan where we can no longer grow without outside help,'' Mr. Muroi said in an interview here. ''Whether you are based in China or America, we want you to please come do business in Aizu-Wakamatsu.''
Call it the post-tsunami economic order. Japan, once a manufacturing powerhouse known for its exports and overseas investment, is confronting a new reality. 
A year after natural and nuclear catastrophes forced wrenching change on Japan's economy, which was already listless from years of downsizing and moving factories offshore, the country is finding it must do what it has long resisted: welcome foreign manufacturers.
The new dynamic in Japan also signifies part of a larger regional power shift. A small but rapidly increasing amount of foreign capital comes from its neighbor, China, which last year surpassed Japan as the world's second-largest economy and seeks to diversify its export-oriented approach to business.
Other recent Chinese manufacturing deals with Japan include plans for a plastics plant in Tottori and a heavy machinery factory in Kochi, both in western Japan.
''The Chinese are starting to look like saviors,'' said Kotaro Masuda, an economist at the government-affiliated Institute for International Trade and Investment in Tokyo. ''Any investment Japan gets is basically a plus, wherever it's from, because it means more jobs, more tax income, more opportunities.''
Last month, the government invited a delegation of 80 Chinese trade officials and executives for an investment tour. Japan now says it aims to double the flow of foreign direct investment into the country in the next decade. A special focus is on the three prefectures most affected by the March 2011 disasters: Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima, where Aizu-Wakamatsu is.
''We greatly welcome investment from abroad in the disaster zone, which will help with reconstruction,'' Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda said in a recent interview with journalists.
Direct investment from China to Japan jumped twentyfold in four years, to $314 million in 2010, according to data from Japan's Finance Ministry -- though as an overall percentage of investment into Japan, money from China remains small. Some experts say the true figure is much higher, however, because a large amount of Chinese investment is carried out through Hong Kong and other regions.
The new openness, if it lasts, will require Japan to break decades of habits that have discouraged foreign investment here, even as most other developed countries have done everything possible to lure foreign capital. The Japanese impediments have included relatively strong regulations, high operating costs and tax rates, and weak government inducements -- not to mention what outside observers have often described as overt xenophobia.
According to data compiled by the United Nations, Japan has one of the lowest levels of foreign investment relative to its overall economy. Japan's inflow of direct foreign investments came to just 0.24 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009 -- and even turned negative over all in the two years after that. In 2011, overseas companies moved 183 billion yen ($2.3 billion) more out of Japan than they put in, according to the Finance Ministry.
Even now, many of Japan's own companies are preferring to put their money into growth opportunities abroad rather than at home. The same Finance Ministry data shows that the net outbound investment from Japan reached 9.1 trillion yen ($113 billion) in 2011, accelerating the so-called hollowing out of Japanese industry long bemoaned by the nation's policy makers.
It is a dangerous imbalance, economists say, particularly since Japan is struggling to reinvigorate economic growth, protect employment and uphold living standards. Moreover, recent studies have suggested that foreign-affiliated businesses in Japan tend to create more jobs than domestic ones, and that they tend to have higher productivity.
''Everybody is fretting that Japanese companies are moving overseas. If that's the case, Japan should balance that out by opening up more to more foreign investment,'' said Kyoji Fukao, an economics professor at Hitotsubashi University.
''Foreign companies that are successful enough to think about coming to Japan are highly competitive and productive,'' he said, ''which means they will invest, create jobs, pay high salaries, spark new demand.''
Aizu-Wakamatsu, the fourth-largest city in Fukushima Prefecture with a population of 125,000, has already found that domestic industry can no longer sustain local employment. At the height of the global economic crisis in 2009, a semiconductor plant run by Fujitsu, a cornerstone of the local economy for almost 40 years, announced it would eliminate a third of its 2,000 jobs.
The outlook for Japanese manufacturers has only worsened since then. Disruptions from last March's disasters and the resulting energy shortages, along with a yen that continues to be punishingly strong, have lowered profits and pushed exporters to move even more production offshore.
Japan posted a record deficit in its current account -- the broadest measure of imports versus exports -- of 437 billion yen ($5.4 billion) in January, the Finance Ministry said Thursday, as energy imports surged after the Fukushima nuclear crisis, which has kept nuclear power plants shuttered across the country.
It is little wonder that when Mayor Muroi returned from China with a manufacturing agreement by the heavy equipment maker Zoomlion, he received a hero's welcome in this city and Fukushima Prefecture.
''The deal could create jobs and revitalize Aizu,'' the newspaper Fukushima Minpo said in an editorial. ''It's a ray of hope for Fukushima.''
The Chinese are also buying struggling Japanese companies. Last year, the washing machine and refrigerator business of Sanyo Electric was bought by Haier, a Chinese company, for 10 billion yen ($124 million). In 2011, for the first time on record, the number of mergers and acquisitions by Chinese companies in Japan exceeded those by American businesses in the country.
For Chinese companies, learning to appeal to the demands of finicky Japanese customers could help also refine goods and services for their domestic economy -- and make them more globally competitive.
''Our aim is to build products that satisfy Japanese standards,'' Zoomlion's chief executive, Zhan Chunxin, said at a September news conference. The company is expected to set up an office in Aizu-Wakamatsu next month and work with a local partner to build a small manufacturing plant in the city to make concrete pump trucks for the Japanese market.
Some people in the disaster zone have expressed concern that foreign companies, helped by generous subsidies, will hurt local businesses trying to rebuild. But the overriding impulse seems to be to seeking help from whoever is willing to offer it.
Last month, the central government designated districts in Iwate and Miyagi prefectures as ''special disaster reconstruction zones'' that offer incentives and tax breaks to new investors. In Miyagi, for example, companies that invest in the new zones are exempt from corporate tax for five years.
But some of the most generous subsidies could come in Fukushima, which has allocated 225 billion yen ($2.8 billion) to industry in the prefecture, including 30 billion yen for new companies that open in the prefecture.
''We are No. 1 in Japan for location subsidies,'' Yuhei Sato, the Fukushima governor, said at a recent investment seminar. One company lured by the subsidies, Canadian Solar, which is based in Ontario and has links to China, is in talks to set up a solar panel factory in Miyagi or Fukushima.
Regional cities like Aizu-Wakamatsu could be crucial to Japan's effort to attract foreign investment, said Shojiro Nakamura, a consultant at Accenture, the global consulting company, which opened an office in the city last June. Rent and other costs are cheaper in Aizu-Wakamatsu than Tokyo, and it has a skilled work force, making it an attractive investment proposition, Mr. Nakamura said.
But the longer-term challenge for Aizu-Wakamatsu, Mr. Nakamura said, is to create lasting employment that is not contingent on subsidies or cheap costs.
Instead, a joint initiative with the city, a local university and Accenture aims to make Aizu-Wakamatsu a center for research and development, a ''smart city'' that runs on renewable energy and supports high-tech jobs.
Investment from China is fine, Mr. Nakamura said, ''but ultimately, we want to be more like Silicon Valley.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The city of Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan, has discovered that domestic industry can no longer sustain local employment. (B1)
Shohei Muroi, Aizu-Wakamatsu's mayor, was praised for a deal made with a Chinese company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) CHARTS: Wary of Outside Investors: Foreign direct investment in Japan has lagged that of other major industrial countries for many years. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)
 MAP (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TSUNAMIS (68%); DISASTER RELIEF (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: YOSHIHIKO NODA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



346 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4358 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: Around Town

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
'TORN IN TWO: THE 150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CIVIL WAR' (Tuesday; display continuing Friday through April 28) For an exhibition consisting largely of maps, pictures are worth a thousand words. This display at the Grolier Club, organized by the Norman B. Leventhal Map Center at the Boston Public Library, includes period maps, newspapers and other items related to the Civil War that tell the stories behind the conflict, from the tensions that led to it to the battles that defined it. (Included, above, is an 1864 Currier & Ives lithograph with Lincoln and the Confederate leader Jefferson Davis tugging on a map of the United States held by Gen. George B. McClellan, a Union Army general who unsuccessfully ran for president against Lincoln.) Other pieces include a map used by Lincoln to plot troop movements; the war itself led to a remapping of major battle areas. On Tuesday at 6 p.m. Ronald Grim, curator of the Leventhal Map Center, will talk about the significance of the maps; the talk, like the show, is free, but reservations are requested by e-mailing mbrennan@grolierclub.org, or calling (212) 838-6690. The exhibition can be seen Mondays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, grolierclub.org.; it will be on view at Ford's Theater in Washington, beginning in December. 
Map-folding skills will not be tested. (Anne Mancuso)
Around Town
Museums and Sites
Brooklyn Historical Society: Film Screenings and Discussions (Sunday and Thursday) When the film ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' was released 45 years ago, interracial marriage was illegal in 17 states. After a viewing of the film at 2 p.m., Erica Chito-Childs, a sociologist, will lead a discussion of interracial images in the media today. The event is part of ''Crossing Borders, Bridging Generations,'' an oral history project that examines the history and experiences of mixed-heritage people and families. On Thursday at 7 p.m., Nelson George, an author and director, will be on hand for a screening and discussion of his latest documentary ''Brooklyn Boheme,'' which focuses on African-American artistic movements that took place in Fort Greene in the 1980s and '90s; seating is limited. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, (718) 222-4111, brooklynhistory.org; $6, $4 for students, teachers and 62+, free for children under 12 and members.
Museum at Eldridge Street: Conversation with Fyvush Finkel (Sunday) Fyvush Finkel, the 89-year-old Broadway and television actor, will talk about his more than 30 years in Yiddish theater with his son, Ian Finkel, at 3 p.m., 12 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0888, eldridgestreet.org; $25, $18 for students and 62+.
Discovery Times Square: 'The Dead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Biblical Times' (through April 15) An additional 10 scrolls, including Greek Minor Prophets and Job Targum, have been added to the other ancient artifacts from Israel that are on view in this exhibition. Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., and Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., with the box office closing one hour before the closing time. 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (866) 987-9692, discoverytsx.com; $27; $22.50 for 65+; $19.50 for children 4 to 12; free for children under 4.
Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum: 'Salute to Women' (Tuesday through Sunday) In celebration of Women's History Month, the museum is hosting a series of events honoring the women who have served our nation. ''Women in Aviation: World War II'', a display of rare videos, gear and photographs, features the history of female pilots from the early 1900s to the end of World War II; it will be up through July 8. As a companion piece to the exhibition, a guided tour, ''Extraordinary Stories of Women in Sea, Air and Space'' will be offered from 11:30 to 12:45 p.m. through the end of March; admission, in addition to museum admission, is $20, $15 for children 3 through 17. On Sunday, a ''Health and Fitness Day,'' with a special fitness workout combining several disciplines as well as health screenings, will take place from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.; admission is by donation and in addition to museum admission, with proceeds to benefit museum programs for women and a health initiative in the public schools. Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, (877) 957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org; museum admission ranges from $12 to $24 (free for active and retired military members and children under 3). Museum hours through March, Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Morris-Jumel Mansion: Georgia O'Keeffe Lecture (Saturday) To celebrate Women's History Month, a special event focusing on the artist Georgia O'Keeffe is planned. In the late 1930's, O'Keeffe spent time on Hawaii at a request from the Dole Pineapple Company to create several paintings for an advertising campaign. While there, she met a young girl named Patricia Jennings, who served as her tour guide and confidante. Ms. Jennings, now an octogenarian living in Hawaii, co-wrote with Maria Ausherman a memoir of that time period titled ''Georgia O'Keeffe's Hawaii.'' At 2 p.m., Ms. Ausherman will discuss O'Keeffe's time on Hawaii and will sign copies of the book. Admission is free, but registration is required: (212) 923-8008. 65 Jumel Terrace, at Sylvan Terrace, Washington Heights, morrisjumel.org.
Museum of Jewish Heritage: 'Jewish Tales from Wales' (Sunday and Wednesday) The Jewish community of Wales is the focus of this three-part series featuring three contemporary films. On Sunday, two films are scheduled: at 11 a.m., ''Solomon and Gaenor,'' a 1999 film by Paul Morrison about a Romeo-and-Juliet-romance set in the early 20th century; and at 2:30 p.m., ''Sleep Furiously,'' a 2010 documentary by Gideon Koppel about Jews who found refuge from the Nazis on a Welsh farm. Both films will be followed by discussions; the first film will be introduced by the Rt. Hon. Carwyn Jones, the First Minister of Wales. On Wednesday at 7 p.m., the film will be ''Very Annie Mary'' (2001), a feature by Sara Sugarman about a young woman trying to break away from her domineering father; a discussion with the filmmaker and others follows. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; each day's program, $10, $7 for students and 62+, $5 for members.
Museum of the City of New York: 'Cecil Beaton: The New York Years' (through April 22) For the 50 years that Cecil Beaton made New York his second home, he sought the area where fashion, design and photography overlap. A Cambridge-educated man about town, Beaton easily navigated New York society to find opportunities to use his talent and creativity across artistic disciplines. He photographed movie stars for Vogue and Vanity Fair, published volumes of his diaries and designed costumes and film sets (winning two Academy Awards in the process). This exhibition celebrates Beaton's aesthetic and features a collection of his celebrity portraits -- intimate black-and-white photographs that often incorporate mirrors and reflective surfaces -- that capture glamorous subjects like Audrey Hepburn, Marilyn Monroe and his old flame Greta Garbo. A number of his self-portraits, caricatures and costumes are also on display. Museum hours: from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays and Sundays, and until 8:30 p.m. on Saturdays, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Free with suggested admission: $10; $6 for students and 65+; free for children 12 and under and members.
Museum of the City of New York: Manhattan Street Grid and Police Photographs (Saturday and Tuesday) The street grid of Manhattan is the subject of the exhibition ''The Greatest Grid: The Master Plan of Manhattan, 1811-2011,'' on view through July 15. On Saturday at 2 p.m., Hilary Ballon, curator of the exhibition, will discuss how the grid has influenced the city's economic and cultural life; it will be repeated on April 15. Admission is $12, $8 for students and 62+ and $6 for members. On Tuesday at 6 p.m., a panel of curators, scholars and art critics will discuss the work of two crime photographers -- Weegee -- born Arthur Fellig -- and Leonard Freed. The discussion is presented in conjunction with the exhibition ''Police Work: Photographs by Leonard Freed, 1972-1979'' that is on view through May 6; admission is $15, $10 for members, students and 62+. Reservations are required for each talk: (917) 492-3395, mcny.org.
New York Transit Museum: 'ElectriCity: Powering New York's Rails' (continuing) A historical display of items from the museum collection, including switches and circuit breakers, that illustrates how electricity powers the subway system. Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, (718) 694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum; $7; $5 for those ages 2 to 17 and 62+; free for members and for 62+ on Wednesdays.
New-York Historical Society: The 13th Amendment (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) On view at the Society through April 1 is a rare handwritten copy, signed by Lincoln, of the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery. Viewing hours are Tuesday through Thursday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Friday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is $15, $12 for teachers, $10 for students, $5 for those 7 to 13, and free for children under 7; through March 31, visitors showing a MetroCard will receive two-for-one adult admissions. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org.
Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture: Women's Jazz Festival (Monday) In celebration of Women's History Month, the Spelman Jazz Ensemble, an all-female group, will perform at 7 p.m. Tickets are $25, $20 for members. 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2206. schomburgcenter.com.
The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts: Remembrance, Jazz and Latin Music (Sunday through Tuesday) On Sunday at 2:30 p.m., the Chameleon Ensemble will perform the music of Latin America. On Monday at 6 p.m., John Anthony Gilvey, the author of ''Jerry Orbach, Prince of the City: His Way from the Fantasticks to Law & Order,'' will talk about the actor, who died in 2004 at 69. On Tuesday at noon, the Gotham Jazzmen will appear in their weekly jazz set. All events are free. 40 Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org/locations/lpa; free.
Gardens
New York Botanical Garden: 'The Orchid Show: Patrick Blanc's Vertical Garden' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This is the 10th year for the show, with special weekend events planned during its run. Those 21 and older can sip a complimentary cocktail and listen to music while they view the show on Saturdays from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.; admission is $30, or $20 for members. Orchid experts will be on hand to offer advice on plant care on Saturdays and Sundays from 1:30 to 4:30 p.m; and garden docents will help guide visitors through the garden on Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Through April 22. Garden admission is $20, or $18 for students and 65+; $8 for children 2 to 12; members and children under 2, free. Garden hours: Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Bronx River Parkway, Exit 7W, and Fordham Road, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org.
Events
'Mind Over Manhattan' (Saturday) This is the last chance to see the mentalist Marc Salem mixing mind games with wit and showmanship at the Society for Ethical Culture. At 8 p.m., 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com; $30 to $60.
'The Value of Water' Art Exhibition (through March 25) Water and its depiction in art is the subject of this free exhibition which features pieces by Jenny Holzer, Kiki Smith and others. It can be viewed Mondays through Saturdays from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sundays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.; this Saturday, the display is not accessible due to a special event at the Cathedral. 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org/VOW.html.
'ThinkSwiss: GenEve Meets New York' (Friday through Monday) Sponsored by the Consulate General of Switzerland in New York and the City of Geneva, this series, in commemoration of the 300th anniversary of the birth of the Swiss philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, continues with discussions and performances at several locations. Two discussions are planned on Friday: at 12:30 p.m., the topic will be education, featuring writers and scholars, at the French Institute Alliance Francaise, 22 East 60th Street; tickets, including lunch, are $35, $25 for FIAF members. At 7 p.m., two former governors -- Eliot Spitzer, of New York and Thomas Kean, of New Jersey, will be among the panelists at a talk about social justice and democracy, at the New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street; tickets are $25, $15 for students and friends of the Library. Other events include free concerts of classical music on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street; and a free jazz performance on Sunday at 7 p.m. at Frederick P. Rose Hall, Lincoln Center, Broadway at 60th Street. Full schedule: thinkswissny.org.
A Holocaust Remembrance (Saturday) Yiddish and Hassidic folk songs, as well as music from the Terezin concentration camp and the Vilna ghetto, will be performed by the Western Wind at 8 p.m. at Temple Ansche Chesed, 251 West 100th Street, fifth floor. The performance, which also features songs by Kurt Weill and Paul Hindemith, is a preview of an appearance that the ensemble is planning later this month at the Sydney Jewish Museum in Australia. Suggested contribution, $25, $15 for students. 251 West 100th Street, (212) 873-2848, westernwind.org.
Acting Company Benefit (Monday) The performers Patti LuPone, Kevin Kline and David Schramm, who are among the founding members and alumni of the Acting Company, will take part in a benefit performance at 7 p.m. at the Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street, between Lexington and Park Avenues. Also appearing will be Zoe Caldwell, Kristin Chenoweth, Harvey Fierstein, Sutton Foster, Boyd Gaines and others. Proceeds will benefit the company, which was formed 40 years ago to take theatrical productions to under-served areas. (212) 772-4448, brownpapertickets.com; $125 and $175.
The East Village Other: An Exhibition (continuing through March 16) The East Village Other, a biweekly underground paper published from the mid-1960s through the early 1970s, is the focus of an exhibition at New York University's Arthur L. Carter Journalism Institute, 20 Cooper Square, sixth floor, between Fifth and Sixth Streets, East Village. The exhibition, ''Blowing Minds: The East Village Other, the Rise of Underground Comix, and the Alternative Press, 1965-1972,'' includes original copies of the paper, as well as covers of select issues and items from the paper's Second Avenue office. The exhibition can be viewed Mondays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., eastvillageother.org; free.
'Fashion at FIAF' (through April 14) Presented through April by the French Institute Alliance Francaise, this program devoted to fashion will feature film screenings, an art exhibition and designer talks. ''Jean-Philippe Delhomme: Dressed for Art,'' a display of drawings and paintings by the artist, is on view through April 14 at the gallery at Gould Hall; it is free and can be viewed Tuesdays through Fridays from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Most events in the program will take place at Gould Hall, 22 East 60th Street, but some are planned for the Katie Murphy Amphitheater of the Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue and 27th Street, Manhattan. Screening tickets are $10, $7 for students or free for members (or $2 for advance tickets). (800) 982-2787, (212) 355-6160, fiaf.org.
'Giving Music a Face': Art Exhibition at Deutsches House (continuing through March 30) David Friedmann, an Austrian-born artist known for his portrait work in Berlin in the 1920s and '30s, often used musicians and composers as his subjects. Many of the portraits he created were lost or destroyed during the Holocaust, but he survived exile, deportation and several concentration camps; he died at 86 in 1980. Through the efforts of his daughter, Miriam Friedman Morris (the family dropped the second ''n'' after moving to the United States) and others, some of his early artwork was recovered, and reproductions of it and an original piece are on display at New York University's Deutsches Haus. The exhibition can be viewed Mondays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. at Deutsche Haus, 42 Washington Mews, New York University, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-8660, dhnyu.org; free.
'The Japanese-American Internment Project: If They Came for Me Today' (Friday) Friday is the last day to see this exhibition based on the experiences of Japanese-Americans who were interned in camps in the United States during World War II. This display, which includes portraits and texts that tell the stories of 14 individuals affected by the wartime policy, is presented by Community Works NYC; it was begun by the organization's Western branch, Community Works West, and has been on view at several locations in California. The first New York stop for the show has been the Interchurch Center, 475 Riverside Drive, at 119th Street; it is scheduled to go to the City College of New York in late June. Viewing hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (212) 459-1854, communityworksnyc.org; free.
'Mad. Sq. Art' (through Monday) This is the last weekend to catch those animal sounds and images in Madison Square Park that are part of a project by the Dutch artist Jacco Olivier. The animated video projections, on display throughout the park, can be seen daily from 6 a.m. to midnight. The free display is part of the Madison Square Park Conservancy's public art program. Madison and Fifth Avenues, between 23rd and 26th Streets, (212) 538-1884, madisonsquarepark.org.
Music of the Ice Age (Monday) The sights and sounds of melting glaciers will accompany a discussion on global warming at 7 p.m. at the Explorers Club, 46 East 70th Street, Manhattan. Julia Calfee, a photographer and writer who documented the melting of glaciers in southeast Switzerland for her project, ''The Last Songs of the Glaciers'' will be on hand to discuss her work. (212) 628-8383, explorers.org; $20, $5 for students, free for members.
NY Sephardic Jewish Film Festival (Thursday) ''Free Men,'' a 2011 film by Ismael Ferroukhi, about a group of Muslim agents that fought with the French Resistance during World War II will open this year's festival at 7:30 p.m. More than 10 films will be screened during the festival, with all but one to be shown at the Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Manhattan; the other location is the JCC in Manhattan, 344 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street. The festival, which runs through March 22, is presented by the American Sephardi Foundation and Yeshiva University Museum. sephardicfilmfest.org; $8 to $125; opening and closing night tickets are $25 ($125 for a VIP ticket); festival pass, $95, $75 for members.
'Political Subversities' (Saturday) How many politicians does it take to change a light bulb? We'll defer that answer to the actors, writers, singers and comedians who make light of politics in the show ''Political Subversities,'' playing Saturdays at 9:30 p.m. through May at the People's Improv Theater. The show, which was conceived by the playwright and composer Elizabeth Swados, features music, skits and monologues drawn from the political news of the day, performed by a troupe of 11 -- many of whom studied with Ms. Swados. People's Improv Theater, 123 East 24th Street, Manhattan, (212) 563-7488, thepit-nyc.com; $15.
'Rendezvous With French Cinema (Friday through Sunday) This series of screenings and discussions with directors and others, co-presented by uniFrance Films and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, continues at two Manhattan locations: the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, and the Film Center Amphitheater, 144 West 65th Street. Many of the films will be followed by discussions. rendezvouswithfrenchcinema.com; $9 to $14.
Roosevelt Island Photography Show (through March 18) On display at the Octagon Gallery is the work of Dannielle Hayes, a photographer who documented the abandoned hospital buildings of Welfare Island (as Roosevelt Island was formerly called) in 1968. The exhibition, ''Windows on Welfare Island,'' which consists of 19 color-infused photographs of the architectural remains, will be on view daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Octagon Gallery, 888 Main Street, Roosevelt Island, (212) 688-4836, rihs.us; free.
Staten Island OutLOUD: Mark Twain Celebration (Saturday and Sunday) This celebration of the writing of Mark Twain, which began in January, continues with two events this weekend on Staten Island. On Saturday, a symposium on ''The Adventures of Tom Sawyer'' will bring together scholars, writers, performance artists and readers from age 14 and up; a highlight of the day will be a performance piece by D.B. Lampman in which she portrays the Mississippi River. The symposium takes place at 2:30 p.m. at the College of Staten Island, Center for the Arts, Recital Hall, 2800 Victory Boulevard. On Sunday at 3 p.m. the adventures of Tom and Huck in the cemetery will be re-visited with a reading in the Historic Lake Cemetery, 1688 Forest Avenue. (718) 907-0709, statenislandoutloud.org; both free.
'Torn in Two: The 150th Anniversary of the Civil War' (Tuesday and continuing through April 28) Visitors to the Grolier Club can see battle strategies of the Civil War as perhaps Lincoln did with this exhibition of maps, photographs and other items in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the start of the war, organized by the Leventhal Map Center at the Boston Public Library. Among the items is an original map used by Lincoln to plot troop movements. On Tuesday at 6 p.m., Ronald Grim, curator of the Leventhal Map Center, will talk about the exhibition and the significance of the maps in it; the talk, like the show, is free, but reservations are requested by e-mailing mbrennan@grolierclub.org, or calling (212) 838-6690. Mondays through Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 47 East 60th Street, Manhattan, grolierclub.org; free.
Spoken Word
McNally Jackson Books: 'Real Characters' (Wednesday) Storytelling meets performance art in this monthly showcase featuring writers, comedians, actors and others. Taking part in this installment are Mike Doughty, a musician and author of ''The Book of Drugs''; Simon Doonan, a designer and author of ''Gay Men Don't Get Fat''; Julianne Smolinski, a writer; Steve Zimmer, a former economist and participant in the Moth Podcast; and Colin Nissan, a writer and contributor to McSweeney's, an online publication. At 7 p.m., 52 Prince Street, (212) 274-1160, mcnallyjackson.com; free.
Mom Egg Poetry Reading (Thursday) Mothers and their literary progeny will be featured at this reading sponsored by the Mom Egg, a journal that highlights writers who happen to be mothers. The readers -- and writers -- are Monica A. Hand, Elana Bell and E.J. Antonio. At 6 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $7.
National Arts Club: Siri Hustveldt Reading (Tuesday) Ms. Hustveldt, author of ''Summer Without Men,'' will read from her book at 8 p.m. 15 Gramercy Park South, at 20th Street, (212) 475-3424, nationalartsclub.org; free.
Pen Parentis Celebrates 'Literary Rock Stars' (Tuesday) A reading series in celebration of authors who successfully combine parental and literary lives continues with three writers whom the literary group Pen Parentis consider ''Literary Rock Stars'': Eleanor Henderson, author of ''Ten Thousand Saints''; Myfanwy Collins, whose new collection of short fiction is due out in August; and Suzzy Roche, one-half of the music group ''The Roches'' -- which also feature her sisters Maggie and Terre -- and the author of ''Wayward Saints.'' At 7 p.m. Gild Hall, 15 Gold Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 232-7700; penparentis.org; free.
Walking Tours
''Little Ukraine'' Walking Tour (Saturday) A walk through this historic East Village neighborhood, with stops at a Ukrainian Church and a shop that sells pysanky, which are intricately decorated Easter eggs, will be led by Adventure on a Shoestring; it will meet at 1 and 3 p.m. on the southeast corner of Second Avenue and 14th Street. (212) 265-2663; $10.
Flatiron District Walking Tour (Sunday) A 90-minute tour of landmarks in the Flatiron district, sponsored by the Flatiron-23rd Street Partnership, will meet every Sunday at 11 a.m. at the William Seward statue in Madison Square Park, Broadway and 23rd Street. Among the sites on the route are the New York Life Insurance Building, The MetLife Tower and the Flatiron Building. (212) 741-2323, discoverflatiron.org; free.
Mott Haven, the Bronx Walking Tour (Saturday) A two-mile walk in the South Bronx, through a revitalized Mott Haven neighborhood, will meet at 11 a.m. on the southeast corner of Lexington Avenue and 125th Street. The walk is sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. (212) 935-2075, mas.org/tours; $15, $10 for members.
Shorewalkers: ''Statues and Outdoor Monuments'' (Saturday) A five-mile walk past the statues and outdoor monuments of the Upper Westside will meet at 11 a.m. at the Time Warner Building, Broadway and 60th Street; participants should take along binoculars, a camera and refreshments for the walk, which will last three-to-four hours. Heavy rain will cancel the walk. (516) 238-8073; (212) 330-7686, shorewalkers.org; Donations accepted.
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York (Saturday) A tour focusing on the area's political history meets at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership, (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.
ANNE MANCUSO
Information on events for possible inclusion in Spare Times can be send to weekend@nytimes.com Expanded lists of Around Town and for Children events are available at nytimes.com/events.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF THE NORMAN B. LEVENTHAL MAP CENTER AT THE BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); WRITERS (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); RACE & RACISM (68%); FAMILY (68%); CHILDREN (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); SOCIOLOGY (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); THEATER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



347 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Growing Up In the Military

BYLINE: By RAY GLIER

 BODY:
Bernard James, a 6-foot-10 Florida State forward, truly could not walk down a sidewalk and chew gum at the same time when he was 12. He wore size 15 shoes, and his hands were the size of a catcher's mitt at the end of scraggy arms, which added to his imbalance. He referred to his feet as clown's feet, and schoolmates referred to him as St. Bernard, as if he were a big goofy dog.
''I would be just walking along and then fall,'' James, who grew up in Savannah, Ga., said. ''It was flat pavement, too. I just fell down over my big feet.''
But when it came time to run for his life, James knew how to stay on his feet. 
It was June 2007, and James was on his third tour of duty for the United States Air Force as a security officer for the 9th security forces squadron. Mortar rounds started to cascade around Camp Bucca in southern Iraq where James's unit was holding 2,000 detainees in one area of the fort. United States servicemen and prisoners scrambled for cover. One 40-millimeter round landed 90 feet away from James and took down a 25-foot tall chain link fence and killed 6 detainees and wounded 68 others, he said.
James had dropped out of high school when he was 17, having not played a minute of high school basketball, and he joined the military to sort out his life. That led him from Qatar to Kuwait, to Iraq, to a gym at an Air Force base in California, to a junior college and now to Florida State.
As a 27-year-old senior, James is averaging 10.4 points and 8.3 rebounds and has a team-high 69 blocks for the 17th-ranked Seminoles (21-9, 12-4), who are seeded third in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament and will play Miami on Friday night.
James is considered one of the A.C.C.'s best defensive players, something he credits to his six years in the military. During that time, he experienced a 20-minute mortar barrage, and a growth spurt so sudden -- from 6-5 to 6-10 -- that he found himself bumping his head on the tops of doors one morning when he was 22 and becoming a basketball prospect.
''A lot of things went right where they could have gone wrong,'' said James, who expects to graduate with an economics degree this spring. ''Miraculously, things went right.''
James has been invited to the Portsmouth Invitational in April, a chance for college players to earn an invitation to N.B.A. fall camps. What scouts will see is that James has the wingspan of a 7-3 player who runs well, shares the ball, defends and rebounds. If the N.B.A. does not recognize his skill, there is always Europe. War has already given him international experience.
''I'm just riding the train,'' James said. ''I'm enjoying basketball; I will play it as long as I can, and when this opportunity is over, I will move on to something else. All this right now feels like a bonus.''
Ten years ago, there were no signs life would offer James a bonus. He was a high school sophomore when he stopped attending classes and started wandering the streets during the day, frequently freeloading at a local bookstore, reading science fiction novels. He was 6-5 as a freshman at Windsor Forest High School but did not make the basketball team. Coaches would track him down in the hallways and tell him to work harder. In his mind, though, the coaches owed him something.
''I was a knucklehead kid and I said, 'Man, you coaches cut me; I'm not playing for you,' '' James said. ''The truth is I should have been cut. I was just a bitter kid at that point.
''I was kind of forgotten about growing up because I was always quiet and a little sneaky, too. My parents always focused their attention on my brothers who were always in their face doing stuff and getting in trouble. I was getting away with stuff, and no one was holding me accountable for anything.''
James's parents gave their consent for him to join the military, and he began clearing all the debris in his path. Before signing on with the Air Force, he earned his G.E.D. and began to respect authority. Once with the Air Force, he rose in rank to staff sergeant and then rose in height. When he was not deployed, he stayed in the gym at Beale Air Force Base and started laying the foundation for his game.
James eventually made it on to the United States military's combined services basketball team, which competes against 122 other countries in military championships. He was 23 when a referee walked up to him after a game in Las Vegas and told him he was going to start calling college coaches about him.
''It was a compliment, a nice thing to say to me, but I shrugged it off, never thought again about it,'' James said.
A few weeks later, James said his mother told him Leonard Hamilton, the Florida State coach, was calling the house.
James went to Tallahassee Community College for two years before joining the Seminoles as a junior last season. He averaged 8.6 points and 5.9 rebounds as Florida State went 23-11 and reached the Round of 16 in the N.C.A.A. tournament. He is not the clumsy St. Bernard to these teammates, nor is he a larger-than-life character because of war experience.
''Bernard is such a humble person that you don't have to change anything to accommodate him,'' Hamilton said. ''He wants to fit in. He does not want to impose his experiences upon anyone. The fact is he is in an area where maybe some of the younger players are more experienced than him. He demonstrates humility, but when time comes up to speak, he says what's on his mind.''
James appears at ease in the Florida State offense: he does not rush shots or look for the long-range basket, instead relying mostly on putbacks around the rim, or short left-handed shots off a pass. Florida State guards Michael Snaer and Ian Miller are aggressive with the ball, and James can go unnoticed in the post.
He plays with aplomb in most games, but James can be just like any player and lose his poise. In the Seminoles' 63-60 victory against Virginia on Thursday, James and Cavaliers guard Joe Harris collided at midcourt and James kicked at Harris in the stomach while they were on the floor. James was ejected. Hamilton mouthed the words ''Don't do that'' from the sideline as James got up.
It is not often Hamilton has to scold James, the oldest player on a team that includes two graduate students and three other seniors. But the military steered James in the right direction, and that might have been what prompted him to send a letter of apology to Virginia Coach Tony Bennett.
''The military put pressure on me to excel and to fall in line and be part of a team,'' James said. ''I never wanted to be told how to do things. That's what I needed to get things on the right path.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bernard James is averaging 10.4 points and 8.3 rebounds for the 17th-ranked Seminoles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); MILITARY BASES (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (64%); RANKINGS (62%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



348 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on Hope Of Greek Bond Swap

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Thursday, recovering most of this week's losses, after Greece moved closer to a bond swap with private creditors to avoid a messy default.
Earlier in the week, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index posted its first big loss for the year on fears of a disorderly default in Greece. At the end of the day on Thursday, it was down just 0.3 percent for the week. Thursday's advance was led by shares in the materials and industrial sectors.
Greece was able to persuade enough private bondholders to accept a restructuring on Thursday, moving it closer to unlocking aid needed to avoid the default. 
''Today's move is based on the assumption that the Greek deal is resolved. But this is an important week, as we still have the jobs report due tomorrow,'' Jack De Gan, chief investment officer at the Harbor Advisory Corporation in Portsmouth, N.H., said.
Friday's jobs data is expected to show a net gain of 210,000 jobs in February. An unexpected increase in new weekly jobless claims on Thursday was not enough to alter perceptions that the labor market was strengthening, a trend that has been a catalyst in the current rally.
''As long as it comes in line with forecast, or even a little bit lower, it will strengthen the current upward trend,'' Mr. De Gan said.
The Labor Department said the number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits rose to 362,000 last week, a level consistent with an improving labor market.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments increased by 8,000 in the week that ended March 3, the department said. The average over the last four weeks held close to a four-year low.
The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure, was little changed at 355,000 claims.
Also on Thursday, the Federal Reserve reported that from October through December, household wealth in the United States climbed for the first time in three quarters as an increase in stock prices outstripped a decline in home values.
Net worth for households and nonprofit groups increased by $1.19 trillion in the fourth quarter, or 2.1 percent from the previous three months, to $58.5 trillion, the Federal Reserve said in its flow of funds report from Washington. Housing wealth decreased by the most in more than a year.
Since reaching a five-year low of $50.5 trillion in the first quarter of 2009, net worth has improved by $8 trillion. That still leaves it $8.4 trillion below the record high of $66.8 trillion, reached in the quarter that ended in June 2007.
Apple shares rose 2.1 percent to $541.99. Analysts said Apple would retain the dominant share of the tablet market as its new iPad prepared for competition from Windows 8 products, and a cheaper iPad 2 takes on Amazon's Kindle Fire.
An S.& P. index of basic materials stocks rose 1.6 percent, leading the S.& P. 500's advance. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB commodities index rose 0.6 percent after four down sessions.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 70.61 points, or 0.55 percent, to 12,907.94 at the close. The S.& P. 500 rose 13.28 points, or 0.98 percent, to 1,365.91. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 34.73 points, or 1.18 percent, to close at 2,970.42.
Coach, the luxury leather goods retailer, closed up 4.6 percent at $76.79 after the company gave a positive presentation at a Bank of America conference.
American International Group fell 3.9 percent to $28.31 after the Treasury Department priced its $6 billion offering of A.I.G. stock at $29 a share. That would allow the government to break even on its investment in the insurer as it winds down bailout programs from the financial crisis.
The Dow was pressured by McDonald's, which fell 3.2 percent to $96.96 after it reported a smaller-than-expected increase in February sales.
Hovnanian Enterprises rose 13.4 percent to $2.79, pushing the PHLX housing sector index up 3 percent.
Interest rates crept higher for a second straight session. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 7/32, to 99 28/32, and the yield rose to 2.02 percent from 1.97 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (91%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); HOME PRICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



349 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
SCORES OF SYRIAN KURDS
FLEE INTO IRAQI KURDISTAN
Over the last few months, scores of Kurds have begun fleeing into Iraqi Kurdistan, escaping security forces and the violence that is threatening to sweep Kurds from the sidelines of Syria's uprising into its main currents. They could potentially shift the momentum against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. PAGE A4
AFGHAN OFFICER SOUGHT 
An Afghan police officer at a checkpoint allowed Taliban insurgents to enter and kill nine other police officers as they slept in their beds, an official in the Ministry of Interior said. The episode is yet more evidence of the challenges the United States faces as it prepares Afghans to take over their own security. PAGE A4
BIN LADEN'S WIVES CHARGED
Pakistan's interior minister said that Osama bin Laden's three wives had been charged with illegally entering the country, in the first legal action against them since they were taken into custody after their husband's death in May. PAGE A11
IN EGYPT, AMERICAN ON TRIAL
Robert Becker, an American facing criminal charges in Egypt for his work with American-backed nonprofit groups, appeared in an Egyptian criminal court to stand trial. Prosecutors argue that the nonprofit groups were conspiring with Israel and the C.I.A. to manipulate the Egyptian revolution. PAGE A10
NATIONAL
WITH NOVEMBER IN MIND, HOUSE PASSES A JOBS BILL
The House overwhelmingly approved legislation to ease small businesses' access to investments and capital markets, a sign that the the coming November election is pressing Congress into action. The large margin of victory is expected to help propel the legislation into law. PAGE A16
SHOOTING SHOCKS SCHOOL
At the Episcopal School of Jacksonville in Florida, teachers are handpicked and stay seemingly forever. So when the school's Spanish teacher, who had been fired that morning, shot and killed the school's headmistress and then himself, none of it seemed to make sense. PAGE A12
NEW YORK
JOBLESS RATE RISES IN CITY,
BUT SO DOES PACE OF HIRING
New York City's unemployment rate rose in January to 9.3 percent, a full percentage point above the national rate. But the city has been adding jobs faster than the rest of the country, according to the State Labor Department. PAGE A28
OBITUARIES
JIMMY ELLIS, 74
As the lead singer of the Trammps, Jimmy Ellis used his melodious voice to overlay the funky guitar riffs and driving bass and drums of the band's dance music. PAGE A20
BUSINESS
JAPAN LOOKS BEYOND ITS BORDERS FOR INVESTORS
A year after natural and nuclear catastrophes forced wrenching change on Japan's economy, which was already listless from years of downsizing and moving factories offshore, the country is finding it must do what it has long resisted: welcome foreign manufacturers. PAGE B1
INVESTOR'S PLAN FOR YAHOO
Daniel S. Loeb's investment firm has amassed a 6 percent stake in Yahoo, and he intends to propose a slate of four directors, including himself, at the company's annual meeting. He has also sketched out a turnaround strategy for Yahoo that does not necessarily match the management's vision. PAGE B1
SPORTS
BOSTON UNIVERSITY HOCKEY
IS SUBJECT OF SCHOOL INQUIRY
Boston University's president, Robert Brown, has created a task force to investigate the culture and climate of the men's hockey program in the wake of the arrests of two star players on sexual assault charges in a span of 10 weeks. PAGE B10
SYRACUSE BEATS CONNECTICUT
Syracuse collected another big victory, narrowly beating Connecticut, 58-55, in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden. Syracuse will face Cincinnati in the semifinals Friday. PAGE B12
WEEKEND
GETTING TO CARNEGIE HALL
WITH LITTLE TIME TO PRACTICE
Last week John Oliver, an esteemed choral conductor long associated with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, had no idea that he was about to make his Carnegie Hall debut. But on Tuesday Mr. Oliver conducted the orchestra, the Tanglewood Festival Chorus and four vocal soloists. Review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); LEGISLATION (86%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (83%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); DISMISSALS (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); MUSIC (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (63%); MUSIC GENRES (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ABU NIDAL ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (87%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (94%); EGYPT (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



350 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13) THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA AT THE ROYAL ALBERT HALL ''Great Performances'' is offering an encore presentation of this 25th-anniversary special, a staged production of the Broadway and West End musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber, based the novel by Gaston Leroux. Taped at the Royal Albert Hall in London, this mounting recreates the scenery and special effects of the original and stars Ramin Karimloo, above, as the Phantom and Sierra Boggess as Christine. Both actors earned Olivier Award nominations for their roles in ''Love Never Dies,'' Mr. Lloyd Webber's sequel to ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' In 2006 ''Phantom'' became Broadway's longest-running show. It has been seen in 145 cities in 27 countries and has grossed more than $5.6 billion worldwide.
8:30 A.M. (USA) 3:10 to YUMA (2007) James Mangold directed this remake of the 1957 western based on an Elmore Leonard story about an Arizona rancher (Christian Bale, right) who signs on to escort an outlaw (Russell Crowe) to catch a train to stand trial. But an unlikely bond is forged along the way. 
10:15 A.M. (Flix) CHILDREN ON THEIR BIRTHDAYS (2002) In this adaptation of a Truman Capote short story, the new girl (Tania Raymonde) in an Alabama town makes a big impression, especially on a couple of boys (Joe Pichler and Jesse Plemons). Tom Arnold also stars, and Mark Medoff, who wrote the play ''Children of a Lesser God,'' directed.
10:35 A.M. (HBO Signature) CONTRACORRIENTE (2010) In this drama from Javier Fuentes-Leon, a married Peruvian fisherman (Cristian Mercado) risks exposing his homosexuality when the ghost of his drowned lover (Manolo Cardona) returns to their village to ask that he be given a proper burial according to religious custom so that he may pass peacefully to the other side. The film won the World Cinema Audience Award at the Sundance Film Festival.
5:30 P.M. (Oxygen) THE DUCHESS (2008) No bodices rip in this historical drama from Saul Dibb, but Ralph Fiennes, as the Duke of Devonshire, does takes scissors to the unmentionables of Georgiana Spencer, the Duchess of Devonshire, played by Keira Knightley, in this adaptation of a biography by Amanda Foreman. Charlotte Rampling plays Georgiana's mother, all too eager to pimp out her teenage daughter to a wealthy older man. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called this film ''an overstuffed, intellectually underbaked portrait of a poor little rich girl.''
8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Jerome Bettis, a former National Football League player, investigates his mother's side of the family as he searches for the identity of a great-great grandfather who was said to have sued a corporation during the Jim Crow era.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW In ''Cleaning Up the Tax Mess,'' Ray Suarez and a panel of experts discuss how to rewrite the tax code. The guests include Eliot Spitzer, the former New York governor; Dorothy A. Brown, a professor specializing in tax law at Emory University; and Daniel J. Mitchell, an economist with the Cato Institute.
9 P.M. (Travel) GHOST ADVENTURES Season 6 begins as Zak Bagans, Aaron Goodwin and Nick Groff, from left below, poke around the Shanghai Tunnels in Portland, Ore., to rouse the spirits that reportedly haunt Hobo's Restaurant, a former tavern where able-bodied men were kidnapped in the 1850s to work on trading ships. In ''The Dead Files,'' at 10, Amy Allan, a ''psychic medium,'' and Steve Di Schiavi, a former homicide detective, visit Alcatraz with a man who says he was attacked there by an entity 40 years ago.
9 P.M. (FX) THE ULTIMATE FIGHTER The 15th season opens as 32 competitors vie for 16 spots to live and train together while seeking a professional contract with the Ultimate Fighting Championship organization. Dominick Cruz and Urijah Faber serve as coaches while training for their own match at the end of the season.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER The journalist Catherine Crier; Michael Steele, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee; and Andrew L. Stern, a former president of the Service Employees International Union, are seated at the round table. Michael B. Oren, Israel's ambassador to the United States, and Jon Hamm of ''Mad Men'' are interview guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALASTAIR MUIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (89%); FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); ATHLETES (69%); DRAMA FILMS (67%); RELIGION (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

PERSON: KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); YUMA, AZ, USA (76%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



351 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: Hacker, Informant and Party Boy of the Projects

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD and SOMINI SENGUPTA; Reporting was contributed by William Rashbaum, Nicole Perlroth, Tim Stelloh, Alex Vadukul, Toby Lyles and Jenny Anderson.

 BODY:
In his Lower East Side apartment, the nights were racket-filled and without end. Neighbors lived with the pounding music and the sound of a pit bull being chased around the living room. The revelry sent scores of calls to the city's complaint line.
In that same apartment he hatched the online plots, the ones intended to cripple the governments of Algeria and Zimbabwe, to shame some of the biggest brand-name companies in the world.
On the Internet he was Sabu, a notorious celebrity who led a scattered tribe of politically motivated ''hacktivists,'' revered as the sly mastermind of brash computer attacks. Then, when he was caught, he slipped into the role of federal informant.
But always he was Hector Xavier Monsegur, party boy of the projects. 
The multiple worlds of Sabu converged on Tuesday when court papers revealed his real identity.
As an informant, he helped bring down a batch of prominent fellow hackers in Europe and the United States. They were indicted on a charge of computer crimes that the authorities said affected one million victims, along with major companies and government agencies.
Hackers, concealed behind fanciful aliases on the Internet, often appropriate larger-than-life dimensions. In reality, other than in physical proportions, Sabu seemed considerably smaller than life. A defensive-lineman-size man known as Booby, he was raising the two young children of his imprisoned aunt in a public housing project. Court documents showed that Mr. Monsegur, 28, paid bills with stolen credit cards and dabbled in drug sales.
In one neighborly gesture, he offered to use his hacking skills to sweeten other tenants' credit ratings.
On Twitter, both before and after he was helping the authorities catch his compatriots, he was prone to grand declarations: ''Give us liberty or give us death -- and there's billions of us around the world. You can't stop us. Because without us you won't exist.''
In the days before his unmasking, he was strangely haunted by the subject of turncoats. ''So you're telling me if you get locked up, and your nosy neighbor who dropped the dime on you runs free -- you would simply ignore?'' he posted Monday.
Mr. Monsegur's whereabouts are unknown, and his lawyers declined to comment. His background remains gauzy, but court records and interviews with relatives and neighbors offer an outline.
He was born in 1983. His father, also named Hector Monsegur, was arrested in 1997 along with his sister, Iris, for selling heroin. Both went to prison for seven years.
While his father was locked up, Mr. Monsegur apparently moved in with his grandmother, Irma, who lived in a sixth-floor apartment in the Jacob Riis Houses, a Lower East Side housing project.
School officials said Mr. Monsegur attended Washington Irving High School, but left in 2001 without finishing ninth grade. In the transcript of his guilty plea, Mr. Monsegur said that he went to college, though it is unclear if he actually did.
After his release from prison in early 2003, Mr. Monsegur's father found work with a sanitation company. The aunt, Iris, ran a credit repair company from her Staten Island home. Her involvement with drugs, however, continued. She was arrested again and returned to prison in 2010. By that point she had had two girls. They were entrusted to the care of the younger Mr. Monsegur, and he gained legal custody of them.
Even after his aunt left prison last August, her children remained with Mr. Monsegur.
He worked sporadically, including for a few months at OpenPlans, a nonprofit group that tries to improve government through technology. His profile on the networking site LinkedIn, which listed him as a senior systems administrator there, disappeared on Thursday. A former co-worker described him as friendly and competent.
But authorities said he had been unemployed in recent years.
Mr. Monsegur was active in computer and hacking circles as far back as the late 1990s, and started a group for local programmers in 2002. ''My name is Xavier,'' he announced, inviting others to join and ''integrate their knowledge into one big mass of hairy information.''
He soon came to embrace strong antigovernment and anticapitalist ideologies that steered him into the hacking world.
In what was identified as a question-and-answer interview with Sabu published in New Scientist magazine last year, he said that he became a hacktivist when he was 16. He said he became disturbed that the Navy was using Vieques Island in Puerto Rico as a bombing range for exercises, and that he helped disrupt communications. In 2010, he said in the interview, he was drawn to Anonymous, a leaderless, antiauthoritarian movement that has taken up a variety of political causes. The catalyst, he said, was his outrage over the arrest of Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, the whistle-blower site.
In particular, he became a leader of a splinter group, Lulz Security, or LulzSec, which claimed to attack computer security companies for laughs, or lulz, rather than for financial gain.
Describing himself, he said in the interview, ''I'm not some cape-wearing hero, nor am I some supervillain trying to bring down the good guys. I'm just doing what I know how to do, and that is counter abuse.'' For his online handle he chose Sabu, adopted from a former professional wrestler.
In 2010 and 2011, according to court documents, Mr. Monsegur participated in a relentless string of online attacks against companies and governments. Targets included Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and Sony. He also played a role in attacks on computers belonging to the governments of Tunisia, Yemen, Algeria and Zimbabwe, as well as those of the United States Senate.
Though he was self-taught, Mr. Monsegur was probably among the most skilled technologists in the bunch. As the ''rooter,'' federal authorities say, he was in charge of identifying vulnerabilities of LulzSec targets and creating the attack strategy.
Copies of LulzSec chat logs posted online show that he was sometimes wary of getting caught. In one discussion, he is irate at his fellow hackers for revealing the name of a site used in an attack, because it could expose his computer's location. Another participant is deferential: ''Mm, okay, ill not say anything further without conferring with you.''
In another chat, Sabu is told about a hacker who spots weaknesses of target organizations. He issues an order: ''Can you bring them to this network for private chats with me? I want some realtime coordination.''
On Twitter he posted about a variety of political causes: repression in Syria, the American colonization of Puerto Rico, legislation that would restrict the Internet.
Mr. Monsegur's value as an informant is on display in an online chat with Jeremy Hammond, a Chicago man accused of attacking a company called Stratfor last December, as excerpted in court papers. Mr. Hammond gleefully describes his attack to Mr. Monsegur, who praises him. Then Mr. Monsegur extracts a valuable piece of information. He calls him by one of his other nicknames, Anarchaos, and Mr. Hammond responds -- linking the two aliases.
''If I get raided anarchaos your job is to cause havok in my honor,'' Mr. Monsegur says.
''It shall be so,'' Mr. Hammond replies.
Neighbors and relatives said that offline, Mr. Monsegur became more disruptive after his grandmother died a couple of years ago. ''That messed him up,'' a family member said.
Most residents of the complex who knew him would speak only on condition of anonymity, out of fear of retribution from him and his friends. These neighbors said that besides the children, he seemed to live with a number of others.
Some found him an irksome presence. ''He partied all night,'' one neighbor said. ''I always made complaints to the police. Nothing was done.''
One neighbor complained twice to Community Board 3 about the chronic noise, as recently as last week. She said it would persist from 7 p.m. to 4 a.m., seven days a week.
Several neighbors said that they smelled marijuana wafting from the parties. One neighbor said that when she left in the morning the hubbub persisted. ''The music gives me headaches,'' she said. Among his visitors, neighbors said, were a half-sister and several brothers, one of whom brought along a white pit bull named China.
There were those who found Mr. Monsegur gracious. One man who lived in the complex told of losing his wallet a year ago while stepping out of a cab. Mr. Monsegur happened to find it, tracked down the man and returned it.
Neighbors said Mr. Monsegur told them he spent the bulk of his days huddled in front of his computer. ''He would brag how he changed bad credit to good credit on his computer,'' one neighbor said. She said she had heard another tenant talk about how Mr. Monsegur helped him upgrade his credit.
They were in disbelief that he could be the man authorities unmasked.
In pleading guilty, Mr. Monsegur admitted that he applied his hacking skills not simply for laughs or noble causes but for money. In court documents, he said that he had hacked into an auto parts company and had it ship him four automobile motors worth $3,456.
According to sources briefed on the investigation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation learned in February of last year that Sabu was Mr. Monsegur. He had made elementary mistakes, like logging into an online chat room without using anonymity software and revealing the name of a Web site he controlled in a chat room.
Last summer, authorities arrested Mr. Monsegur. Two F.B.I. agents visited him in his apartment and employed the classic Good Cop-Bad Cop method to pressure him into cooperating, according to a person briefed on the matter.
In August, he pleaded guilty to a dozen criminal counts, most involving conspiracy to hack computers, and entered into a cooperation agreement. The agreement also detailed an array of crimes that prosecutors did not charge him with, including hacking into an online casino, using and trying to sell marijuana and buying $15,000 worth of merchandise with a former employer's credit card.
He was freed on bail and began functioning as an informant, continuing to speak on Twitter and elsewhere as Sabu.
According to the cooperation agreement, authorities said that if Mr. Monsegur felt endangered they would take steps to protect him, including trying to get him and ''his family and certain loved ones'' into the witness protection program.
His crimes carry a maximum sentence of 122 years, though his cooperation agreement said that if he provided ''substantial assistance'' to the government, prosecutors would recommend leniency.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about Hector Xavier Monsegur, a computer hacker and informant who led law enforcement agents to several prominent fellow hackers, misstated the given name of one of those he exposed. He is Jeremy Hammond, not Darrell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hector Xavier Monsegur (A1)
 Hector Xavier Monsegur, or Sabu, lived in Apartment 6F at 90 Avenue D in the Jacob Riis complex in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); ARRESTS (67%); HEROIN (64%); CHILDREN (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



352 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6115 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'The Big Meal' (in previews; opens on March 21) In what sounds like a modern-day take on Thornton Wilder, this new play traverses 80 years and five generations in the life of a typical suburban family. The director, Sam Gold, has found plenty of poetry in Annie Baker's forays into suburbia; let's see if he'll do the same for Dan LeFranc (''Sixty Miles to Silver Lake''). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com, playwrightshorizons.org. (Eric Grode) 
'Death of a Salesman' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Following in the footsteps of Brian Dennehy, Dustin Hoffman, George C. Scott and Lee J. Cobb, just to name his Broadway predecessors in the role, Philip Seymour Hoffman slips on the careworn persona of Willy Loman in this revival of the Arthur Miller classic. Directed by Mike Nichols, the ensemble also features Linda Emond as Linda, Andrew Garfield (due on screen this summer in ''The Amazing Spider-Man'') as Biff, Bill Camp as Charley and John Glover as Ben. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney)
'Evita' (previews start on Monday; opens on April 5) One of the defining musicals of its era, Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber's 1978 Eva Peron bio-drama returns in its first Broadway revival, with the Argentine actress Elena Roger reprising the star turn that earned her kudos in London. (Hopefully, she will erase all memories of Madonna in the role.) Flanking her in Michael Grandage's production are Michael Cerveris as Juan Peron, and Ricky Martin, swapping la vida loca for that of the show's enigmatic narrator, Che. Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, entrance on West 46th Street, between Broadway and Eighth Avenue, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Rooney)
'Ghost: The Musical' (previews start on Thursday; opens on April 23) Yes, there's a new score by Dave Stewart (formerly half of the Eurythmics) and Glen Ballard (a key collaborator of Alanis Morissette and Michael Jackson). But fret not, you won't be denied hearing the Righteous Brothers hit ''Unchained Melody,'' which had women flocking to pottery classes when the smash 1990 movie was released. Bruce Joel Rubin has adapted his Oscar-winning screenplay for the stage, with Matthew Warchus directing the afterlife love story. Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Rooney)
'Give Me Your Hand' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Two of Ireland's most distinguished stage actors, Dermot Crowley (''The Weir'') and Dearbhla Molloy (''Dancing at Lughnasa''), channel the Dublin-based poet Paul Durcan's interpretations of some of the world's most famous paintings. Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
'Gore Vidal's The Best Man' (in previews; opens on April 1) How will the ruthless chicanery of Mr. Vidal's 1960 play about the presidential primary season measure up against its real-life contemporary counterpart? Quite well if the top-notch cast assembled for Michael Wilson's Broadway revival is any indication. That lineup includes James Earl Jones, John Larroquette, Candice Bergen, Angela Lansbury, Eric McCormack, Kerry Butler, Jefferson Mays and Michael McKean. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Jesus Christ Superstar' (in previews; opens on March 22) Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's mildly revisionist rock gloss on the Gospels began life as a concept album, a format that the director Des McAnuff knows something about. (He won a Tony for guiding the Who's ''Tommy'' to the stage.) This production earned its share of hosanna hey-sannas at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in Canada, where Mr. McAnuff is artistic director. Most of the Stratford cast has remained for the Broadway production, including Josh Young as Judas and Paul Nolan as the title character. Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'The Kreutzer Sonata' (in previews; opens on Sunday) Inspired by the Beethoven piece of the same name, Tolstoy had hoped one day to see his 1889 novella about the corrupting power of sexual obsession and jealousy as a work performed with musical accompaniment. The Gate Theater of London commissioned the playwright Nancy Harris to adapt the text in this critically lauded 2009 production, which incorporates film, live music and performance. La MaMa, First Floor Theater, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710, lamama.org. (Rooney)
'Lost in Yonkers' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 22) Neil Simon got a raw deal when David Cromer's sensitive 2009 revival of ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' closed after only a week and its planned companion piece, ''Broadway Bound,'' never made it out of the rehearsal room. TACT/The Actors Company Theater attempts to repair the playwright's reputation with this intimate production, directed by Jenn Thompson, of the 1991 Pulitzer and Tony winner widely ranked among his finest work. Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Maids' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Making the chocolate-cream-pie revenge of ''The Help'' seem almost innocuous, Jean Genet's domestics hatch sadomasochistic vendettas against the bourgeois mistress of the house in the ritualistic 1947 play. Known for its vigorous interpretations of classic texts, Red Bull Theater assembles a promising cast of J. Smith-Cameron, Ana Reeder and Jeanine Serralles, under the direction of Jesse Berger. Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, redbulltheater.com. (Rooney)
'A Moon for the Misbegotten' (in previews; opens on March 18) The Pearl Theater adds to the flurry of Eugene O'Neill productions appearing around town this winter with J.R. Sullivan's staging of the playwright's late masterwork. Kim Martin-Cotten and Andrew May make their Pearl debuts in the central roles of Josie Hogan and James Tyrone. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'Newsies' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 29) Inspired by the Newsboy Strike of 1899, when underpaid teenage New York City newspaper sellers took on the media barons of the day, this stage adaptation of the 1992 movie was originally conceived by Disney as a regional and touring property. But response to the premiere last fall at New Jersey's Paper Mill Playhouse was so rousing that a limited Broadway engagement was planned for Jeff Calhoun's energetic production, which stars Jeremy Jordan, late of ''Bonnie & Clyde.'' Songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman, with a book by Harvey Fierstein. Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Rooney)
'No Place to Go' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on March 21) Oskar Eustis, artistic director of the Public Theater, describes Ethan Lipton as ''a fantastic amalgam of Woody Guthrie and Woody Allen.'' The first original commission for Joe's Pub, this show is Mr. Lipton's musical ode to the unemployed, framed as a personal protest when the company where he has worked for the past 10 years moves to another planet. Leigh Silverman directs. Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'Now. Here. This.' (in previews; opens on March 28) The creators, cast and director-choreographer behind ''[title of show]'' reunite on this humorous exploration of life's big questions, with a gaze that extends from early man to ancient civilizations to middle school to outer space. Following a developmental workshop last year, the musical returns to the Vineyard for a fully staged production. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Once' (in previews; opens on March 18) Off Broadway transfers to Broadway are nothing new, and neither are musicals based on successful films, but this is a rare case of both happening at the same time. The scruffy 2006 romance about an Irish busker and a Czech immigrant bonding over music in Dublin has become a musical with the help of the movie's stars, Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova (who wrote the music and lyrics), as well as John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (who also directed and choreographed ''Black Watch,'' respectively). Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti star in the central roles. Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Regrets' (in previews; opens on March 27) The British playwright Matt Charman makes his New York debut with this Manhattan Theater Club production, directed by Carolyn Cantor. A drama about friendship and courage, the 1950s-set play centers on a young man who flees Hollywood and heads to a Nevada desert retreat where men go to secure a quickie divorce. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'Anything Goes' Kathleen Marshall's zesty revival of Cole Porter's hit-packed musical embodies the essence of escapist entertainment in the 1930s, when hard times called for bold smiles, tough wisecracks and flashy fantasies. Sutton Foster is sensational as the nightclub evangelist Reno Sweeney (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' As the fatally conflicted Bess, the extraordinary Audra McDonald is a gale force of emotion in Diane Paulus's slimmed-down musical adaptation of the landmark 1935 opera. Otherwise, despite a likable performance from Norm Lewis as Porgy, this production feels cloudy and mild, only rarely acquiring the majesty of the opera that inspired it (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Nick Jonas plays the amoral hero of Frank Loesser's 1961 musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Elizabeth Marvel, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Justin Kirk (2:00). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny, facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the Gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
- 'Venus in Fur' The incandescent Nina Arianda recreates her dazzling turn as an actress auditioning for the role of a 19th-century dominatrix in David Ives's seriously funny sex comedy about power games at an audition. Hugh Dancy holds his own as the writer-director who may be discovering more than he wants to know about the destabilizing nature of desire (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Wit' Cynthia Nixon gives a large, lucid and delicate performance in this immaculately staged (and inevitably moving) revival of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama from 1998 about a terminally ill English professor. Lynne Meadow's smart and sensitive production magnifies the play's innate theatricality without compromising the hard emotional truth at its center (1:40). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
- 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs' The accomplished monologuist Mike Daisey weaves the story of the Apple co-founder's life and vision into a darker exploration of the troubling economic disparities that underlie our technology-obsessed age. Smart, engaging and funny, but be warned that you might have second thoughts about purchasing that next shiny gadget (1:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
- 'And God Created Great Whales' Rinde Eckert's deeply sentimental, affecting and often funny portrait of an artist -- an opera composer -- in search of his own, rapidly deteriorating memory. Directed by David Schweizer and also starring Nora Cole, this revival of Mr. Eckert's 2000 performance piece uses music, flashcards and ''Moby-Dick'' in a fight against eroding time (1:20). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Brantley)
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
'Beyond the Horizon' Eugene O'Neill's bleak 1920 drama, a tale of two brothers beaten up by bad choices and bad karma, has been given a dutiful revival by the Irish Repertory Theater. Directed by Ciaran O'Reilly, this is a one-foot-in-front-of-the-other march into a grim destiny that even Thomas Hardy might have deemed excessive (2:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Brantley)
'Carrie' This exceedingly sober revival of a fabled flop musical from the 1980s, based on Stephen King's classic horrors-of-high-school novel, is as minimal and subdued as a little black choir robe, which means that it isn't much fun. Molly Ranson is a tad too sane as the vengeful Carrie, but Marin Mazzie is very good as her demented mother (2:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
- 'Edward Albee's The Lady From Dubuque' Edward Albee throws a mean party in this scintillating revival of a much-maligned play, in which death comes to call wearing pearls. David Esbjornson directs a crackerjack cast that includes Michael Hayden, Laila Robins and, in the title role, a serenely commanding Jane Alexander (2:00). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)
'Galileo' F. Murray Abraham gives a commanding but nuanced performance in Brian Kulick's lucid revival of Bertolt Brecht's drama about the conflict between scientific advance and the Roman Catholic Church in 17th-century Italy. But Brecht the lecturer sometimes peeks through the play's textured fabric (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Isherwood)
'Gatz' Elevator Repair Service's word-for-word presentation of ''The Great Gatsby'' -- resuming on Wednesday -- chronicles one reader's seduction by a single, ravishing novel. The astonishing Scott Shepherd is the reader, a bored employee in a shabby office, and a first-rate ensemble embodies both his fellow workers and the characters he brings to life. John Collins directed this work of rare imagination and intelligence (6:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555 , publictheater.org (Brantley)
'Hand to God' The Devil is a sock puppet in the return of this foul-mouthed, fun-packed play by Robert Askins about the urges that drive good men (and women, and boys) to dirty deeds. Exuberantly performed by a great cast, led by Steven Boyer as a troubled teenager at odds with his id (1:45). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Hurt Village' Katori Hall's sprawling, overstuffed play, about the last days of a Memphis housing project, may have its problems. But it's packed with vitality and infused with the locomotive rhythms of rap. Patricia McGregor directs a vivid cast that includes the formidable Tonya Pinkins as the determined matriarch of a fragmented family (2:40). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)
'I Alice I' A captivating exercise in pseudodocumentary theater, this two-character play written and staged by Amy Conroy comes direct from an engagement at Dublin's Abbey Theater. Its structural conceit is that two fictional middle-aged women, both named Alice, were caught sneaking a kiss in a local supermarket by a theater artist who has coaxed them to share the story of their 30-year relationship. Ms. Conroy and Clare Barrett play the Alices as stage neophytes gripped by nerves and by the lifelong belief that their personal world was best kept private. Yet as they open up over tea and cake, sharing humorous and affecting insights both ordinary and precious, they become quietly empowered by their newfound visibility (1:10). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, irishartscenter.org. (Rooney)
'Look Back in Anger' Sam Gold's stylized staging of John Osborne's 1956 drama about a working-class lad with the weight of a stifling social system on his shoulders wins points for ingenuity -- the stage is about three feet deep -- but in the crucial central role, Matthew Rhys (television's ''Brothers and Sisters'') never locates the genuine pain beneath the surface rage (2:10). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 352-3101, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Painting Churches' Kathleen Chalfant and John Cunningham are ideal interpreters of the fading Boston blue bloods at the center of Tina Howe's 1983 family portrait, their patrician airs masking fear and fragility. But as the artist daughter who arrives from New York to paint their portrait and help the elderly couple pack up their lives for a move necessitated by failing health and diminished means, Kate Turnbull is outclassed. The same goes for the director Carl Forsman in a pedestrian revival that smudges the subtleties of Ms. Howe's delicate play (2:10). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Rated P for Parenthood' Half of the time, Sandy Rustin, Dan Lipton and David Rossmer's musical about the joys and trials of having children is touching and wistfully funny. The rest of the time, it offers nothing more than we're-all-alike platitudes, shakily conveyed (1:25). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Russian Transport' Janeane Garofalo plays it straight, more or less, in Erika Sheffer's dark drama about the corrupting influence of a new Russian immigrant (the excellent Morgan Spector) on a Brooklyn family (2:10). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Rutherford & Son' The Mint Theater revives Githa Sowerby's grimly unsentimental 1912 drama about John Rutherford, the owner of a glassworks in northern England, and the misery he has wrought on his children's lives. Directed by Richard Corley, this production remains a static and slightly musty affair (2:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Saltz)
'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents gets to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
- 'Tribes' Nina Raine's smart, lively and beautifully acted play asks us to hear how we hear, in silence as well as speech. This British import considers the passive and aggressive forms of listening within an insular, intellectual family, whose members include a deaf son. David Cromer is the expert director (2:15). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Voca People' This show features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, but most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
Off Off Broadway
'Be Careful! the Sharks Will Eat You!' In his one-man show, Jay Alvarez recounts his family's escape from Cuba in 1964, when he was just 4. Acting at least a half-dozen roles, Mr. Alvarez is an evocative tale-teller when reliving the yearlong plans his father made that delivered as many as 30 refugees by boat to the United States. Despite the title, though, and to the play's disadvantage, he describes almost nothing of the 30-hour voyage itself (1:30). Stage Left Studio, 214 West 30th Street, stageleftstudio.net. (Daniel M. Gold)
- 'Disaster!' This delightful jukebox musical, a mash-up of disaster-movie cliche--s from the 1970s and that decade's cheesiest pop hits (and there were so many), could have been D.J.'d by Irwin Allen. If you belong to its target demographic -- that is, you spent the '70s at the drive-in and listening to Casey Kasem's ''American Top 40'' -- it's irresistible. Sunday only (2:00). The Triad, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 362-2590, disastermusical.com. (Andy Webster)
'Growing Up Gonzales' This one-man play about a Nuyorican family in the 1970s is part stand-up, part melodrama and part cultural tourism. Andres Chulisi Rodriguez alternates between playing two brothers: Cisco, the sweet-natured, slow younger brother, who we learn at the outset has recently died; and Johnny, the thuggish older sibling, who has discovered Cisco's journals after his brother's death. The quiet Cisco, it turns out, was quite the storyteller and has colorfully recreated the tragedies and farces of their fatherless childhood, including ridiculous stories about shoplifting raw chickens and imitating Bruce Lee (1:30). Jan Hus Playhouse, 351 East 74th Street, (212) 811-4111, growingupgonzales.com. (Catherine Rampell)
'Mama, I Want to Sing' A largely new cast (seeded from the Gospel for Teens program in Harlem) gives full-throated life to this long-running gospel musical. Quibbles about the thin plot and questionable acting go out the window with each and every tune -- and there are plenty of them. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org. (Grode)
'That Ain't No Lady' The doyenne of New York's now-defunct annual outdoor drag festival, Wigstock, Lady Bunny purveys bawdy stand-up and pornographic pop song parodies in her first new cabaret act in 10 years. Looking like Dusty Springfield on steroids and introduced ''direct from the Port Authority men's room,'' the Lady and her show are definitely not for the prudish. But anyone feeling nostalgic for the seedy old days before Times Square became a tourist-friendly theme park will get a kick out of this evening of big hair and bad manners. Tuesday only (1:30). La Escuelita Cabaret Theater, 301 West 39th Street, (212) 631-0588, brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Baby Wants Candy' A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised musical. Saturday at 10 p.m. only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation (''In the Time of the Butterflies,'' in English) of Julia Alvarez's novel about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface the Musical' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200, frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Adventures of Tom Sawyer' (closes on Sunday) Adapted by Laura Eason, this version of Mark Twain's novel (recommended for audiences 8 and up) is a good introduction to the book, if a little tame. Jeremy B. Cohen's inventive staging should keep young theatergoers involved (1:50). the New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan; 646-223-3010, newvictory.org. (Saltz)
'As Wide as I Can See' (closes on Saturday) This well-acted drama by Mark Snyder -- about two couples in suburban Ohio whose relationships fray in the course of a backyard barbecue, after the arrival of a visiting high school friend -- isn't sure whether it wants to criticize Midwestern provincialism or praise it. One tack nullifies the other, amounting to little (2:00). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Webster)
'Assistance' (closes on Sunday) Leslye Headland (''Bachelorette'') depicts the power games between an abusive -- and unseen -- boss and his ever-revolving cast of assistants in this thin-as-a-Post-it-note comedy, directed with dispatch by Trip Cullman and featuring a top-notch cast of gifted young actors (1:25). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Isherwood)
- 'Bad Kid' (closes on Saturday) It's the characters that stand out in this endearing solo show about growing up gay and goth in Texas (1:10). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, near Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, theatremania.com. (Zinoman)
'Blood Knot' (closes on Sunday) Scott Shepherd (''Gatz'') and Colman Domingo (''The Scottsboro Boys'') play brothers united by blood but divided by skin color in Athol Fugard's play about the brutalities of apartheid and, more universally, the way pernicious social forces can warp identity. Directed by the playwright himself, this first production in the Signature's season devoted to his work is more intellectually stimulating than emotionally engaging (2:30). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'CQ/CX' (closes on Sunday) The playwright Gabe McKinley, a former news assistant at The New York Times, turns the newspaper's 2003 Jayson Blair scandal into a cautionary take of deceit, ambition and hubris. The play, briskly staged by David Leveaux for Atlantic Theater Company, has some insider details, but the work doesn't go much beyond the compelling narrative of a major journalistic fraud (2:15). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Frank Rizzo)
'Early Plays' (closes on Sunday) The weary sameness of life at sea, according to the young Eugene O'Neill, interpreted in a steady monotone by the avant-garde auteur Richard Maxwell. This willfully flat collaboration between Mr. Maxwell's New York City Players and the Wooster Group has occasional moments of melodrama-subverting clarity and more than occasional longueurs (1:30). St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. Brantley)
'Evelyn' (closes on Saturday) In Julia May Jonas's stylistically uneven drama set at a mental institution, the entrance of a movie star throws everything into chaos (1:30). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (Zinoman)
- 'How I Learned to Drive' (closes on Sunday) A first-rate revival of Paula Vogel's Pulitzer Prize winner. With Norbert Leo Butz and Elizabeth Reaser playing a predatory uncle and his precocious niece, one of the most discomfiting love stories in the American theater returns 15 years after its premiere with its power to rattle and stir undiluted. Kate Whoriskey directs (1:30). Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Brantley)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'AND GOD CREATED GREAT WHALES': Rinde Eckert's deeply sentimental, affecting and often funny portrait of an artist -- an opera composer -- in search of his own, rapidly deteriorating memory. Directed by David Schweizer and also starring Nora Cole, above with Mr. Eckert, this revival of Mr. Eckert's 2000 performance piece uses music, flash cards and ''Moby-Dick'' in a fight against eroding time (1:20). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Ben Brantley) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (89%); FILM (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); WRITERS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); THEATER (59%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); MIKE NICHOLS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



353 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: As Stars Rally For Candidate, Rival Objects

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Elizabeth Warren may be running for the United States Senate in Massachusetts, but her campaign is getting deep support 3,000 miles away in California, where the other day, Cher was speaking glowingly of Ms. Warren's candidacy.
''She makes an unbelievable impression,'' Cher said in an interview from Malibu, explaining that she had become a fan after watching some of Ms. Warren's speeches about economic injustice on YouTube. ''I'm just thrilled every time I can hear the woman speak.''
Nearly 20 percent of Ms. Warren's itemized donations (those over $200) in the last quarter of 2011 came from California, where a number of actors and others in the entertainment industry are fired up about her race against a first-term senator, Scott P. Brown, to reclaim for Democrats the seat long held by Edward M. Kennedy.
And Mr. Brown is seeking to use their enthusiasm against her. 
Last Wednesday -- the day before Skip Brittenham, an entertainment lawyer, and Heather Thomas, an actress, held a $500- to-$5,000-per-ticket fund-raiser for Ms. Warren at their home in Santa Monica -- the Massachusetts Republican Party released a Web video in the style of an old movie trailer, with an announcer proclaiming, ''Hollywood has a new 'It Girl' -- Hollywood has fallen for Elizabeth Warren big-time.''
The black-and-white video, called ''The Elitist,'' labels Ms. Warren the ''biggest hypocrite in a political campaign'' for raising money from wealthy celebrities while supporting populist causes. Ms. Warren, a Harvard law professor, built a national reputation in recent years as a dogged consumer advocate, testifying before Congress on economic issues and setting up the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The Brown campaign has mocked not only Ms. Warren's Hollywood support, but the considerable amount of money she has raised outside Massachusetts in general, arguing that Mr. Brown is the more authentic, homegrown candidate. About 61 percent of Ms. Warren's itemized donations in the last quarter came from out of state -- about $1.68 million out of a total $2.75 million. Of Mr. Brown's total $2.26 million in contributions for the quarter, 35 percent, or $790,913, came from outside Massachusetts.
But while New York, New Jersey and the District of Columbia were also among the top sources of itemized donations to Ms. Warren -- and while her California donations came from all over the state -- it is Hollywood that the Brown campaign has seized on as particular proof that Ms. Warren does not deserve election in Massachusetts.
It is, after all, a friendly place to high-profile Democrats, whose relationship with Hollywood has been fodder for Republicans over the years. Former President Bill Clinton, in particular, drew barbs for his friendships with Barbra Streisand, the producer David Geffen and the like.
If the scholarly Ms. Warren seems a less likely idol for Democratic activists in Hollywood, think again. Last fall, in a statement to Politico, Ms. Streisand, who contributed $2,500 in September, described Ms. Warren as the ''one new, consistent and strong voice that has broken through the oftentimes murky and ineffectual cacophony about the economic problems facing our nation.'' Danny DeVito last month posted a link to a Warren speech on Twitter, where Cher has also posted enthusiastically about her: ''Elizabeth Warren is my hero!'' she posted in December. ''Love u E.''
Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant in Los Angeles, said Californians were so excited about Ms. Warren in part because the late Senator Kennedy, whose seat Mr. Brown captured in a 2010 special election after Mr. Kennedy died, was popular there. ''Having it be Senator Kennedy's seat almost leads to people really wanting to be helpful,'' Mr. Carrick said.
Other donors from the entertainment industry include Mr. DeVito ($2,500), his wife, Rhea Perlman ($2,500), the studio executive Jeffrey Katzenberg ($2,500), the musician Herb Alpert ($2,500), the comedian Garry Shandling ($1,000), and the actress Lily Tomlin ($250). Cher has not yet written a check, but says she is planning to soon.
Kyle Sullivan, a spokesman for Ms. Warren, said that her national support was a result of her record of accomplishment. He added that more than 23,000 people in Massachusetts had donated to her campaign so far.
''Elizabeth's record of effective, determined and informed advocacy has earned her support locally and nationally from tens of thousands of contributors whose average donation is less than $100,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
While Hollywood ''is the name that people throw around,'' Mr. Carrick said, ''when people come raise money here, they get it from all sorts of people in all kinds of businesses and professions.''
Many of Ms. Warren's California donations were from academics, lawyers and retirees. Los Angeles and San Francisco were the fourth- and fifth-biggest sources of her itemized contributions in the last quarter. (New York was first, followed by Cambridge and Boston, according to a New York Times analysis of her finance reports.)
In California, Ms. Warren also drew a lot of support from Santa Monica, Beverly Hills, Stanford, Berkeley and Pacific Palisades, the analysis found.
Mr. Brown benefited enormously from out-of-state money in his 2010 race against Martha Coakley, the Democratic state attorney general. According to The Boston Globe, nearly 70 percent of the donors who gave more than $200 to Mr. Brown in January 2010, leading up to his Jan. 19 election, were from outside Massachusetts.
And while most of Mr. Brown's top sources of donations over $200 in the last reporting period were in Massachusetts, he, too, raised a lot of money elsewhere. The Texas cities of Dallas, Houston and San Antonio provided a combined $123,150. He raised just over $50,000 in California (2.2 percent of his total itemized donations). He also got more than $15,000 in contributions from the District of Columbia, West Palm Beach, Fla., and New Canaan, Conn., and he has held fund-raisers recently in Philadelphia, South Florida and New York.
Colin Reid, a spokesman for the Brown campaign, said Mr. Brown was proud that most of his donations in the last quarter came from ''the people of Massachusetts,'' while Ms. Warren was ''heavily reliant on out-of-state money from the Hollywood glitterati and elite academia.''
Emily Albu, a classics professor at the University of California, Davis, who donated $200 to Ms. Warren in December, said she hoped Mr. Brown did not succeed in painting Ms. Warren's California support as a negative.
''I suspect there are a lot of people like me, who aren't Hollywood whatevers, who have ties to Massachusetts or a larger concern for the country and want her to win,'' said Ms. Albu, a registered Democrat who used to live in Cambridge.
Asked whether she thought support from celebrities like herself might hurt Ms. Warren, Cher -- who compared Ms. Warren to Paul Revere -- replied: ''How do you bring somebody that good down?''
Yet she added that to counter such criticism, Ms. Warren could ''totally say, 'You know, Cher's not my idea of someone who should support me.' ''
''If she had to say that,'' Cher said, ''I'd say, 'I don't care.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren is challenging Scott P. Brown in Massachusetts. Cher says: ''She makes an unbelievable impression.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAPS
CHARTS: Elizabeth Warren (Dem.)
Scott Brown (Rep.)
 Support From Across the Country: More than 60 percent of itemized donations to Elizabeth Warren's campaign for the United States Senate in Massachusetts came from outside the state in the last quarter, with a large amount from California. Her opponent, Senator Scott P. Brown, raised most of his money in state. (Source: Federal Election Commission) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); LAWYERS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (94%); SCOTT BROWN (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



354 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Ignorance Is Strength

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
One way in which Americans have always been exceptional has been in our support for education. First we took the lead in universal primary education; then the ''high school movement'' made us the first nation to embrace widespread secondary education. And after World War II, public support, including the G.I. Bill and a huge expansion of public universities, helped large numbers of Americans to get college degrees.
But now one of our two major political parties has taken a hard right turn against education, or at least against education that working Americans can afford. Remarkably, this new hostility to education is shared by the social conservative and economic conservative wings of the Republican coalition, now embodied in the persons of Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney. 
And this comes at a time when American education is already in deep trouble.
About that hostility: Mr. Santorum made headlines by declaring that President Obama wants to expand college enrollment because colleges are ''indoctrination mills'' that destroy religious faith. But Mr. Romney's response to a high school senior worried about college costs is arguably even more significant, because what he said points the way to actual policy choices that will further undermine American education.
Here's what the candidate told the student: ''Don't just go to one that has the highest price. Go to one that has a little lower price where you can get a good education. And, hopefully, you'll find that. And don't expect the government to forgive the debt that you take on.''
Wow. So much for America's tradition of providing student aid. And Mr. Romney's remarks were even more callous and destructive than you may be aware, given what's been happening lately to American higher education.
For the past couple of generations, choosing a less expensive school has generally meant going to a public university rather than a private university. But these days, public higher education is very much under siege, facing even harsher budget cuts than the rest of the public sector. Adjusted for inflation, state support for higher education has fallen 12 percent over the past five years, even as the number of students has continued to rise; in California, support is down by 20 percent.
One result has been soaring fees. Inflation-adjusted tuition at public four-year colleges has risen by more than 70 percent over the past decade. So good luck on finding that college ''that has a little lower price.''
Another result is that cash-strapped educational institutions have been cutting back in areas that are expensive to teach -- which also happen to be precisely the areas the economy needs. For example, public colleges in a number of states, including Florida and Texas, have eliminated entire departments in engineering and computer science.
The damage these changes will inflict -- both to our nation's economic prospects and to the fading American dream of equal opportunity -- should be obvious. So why are Republicans so eager to trash higher education?
It's not hard to see what's driving Mr. Santorum's wing of the party. His specific claim that college attendance undermines faith is, it turns out, false. But he's right to feel that our higher education system isn't friendly ground for current conservative ideology. And it's not just liberal-arts professors: among scientists, self-identified Democrats outnumber self-identified Republicans nine to one.
I guess Mr. Santorum would see this as evidence of a liberal conspiracy. Others might suggest that scientists find it hard to support a party in which denial of climate change has become a political litmus test, and denial of the theory of evolution is well on its way to similar status.
But what about people like Mr. Romney? Don't they have a stake in America's future economic success, which is endangered by the crusade against education? Maybe not as much as you think.
After all, over the past 30 years, there has been a stunning disconnect between huge income gains at the top and the struggles of ordinary workers. You can make the case that the self-interest of America's elite is best served by making sure that this disconnect continues, which means keeping taxes on high incomes low at all costs, never mind the consequences in terms of poor infrastructure and an undertrained work force.
And if underfunding public education leaves many children of the less affluent shut out from upward mobility, well, did you really believe that stuff about creating equality of opportunity?
So whenever you hear Republicans say that they are the party of traditional values, bear in mind that they have actually made a radical break with America's tradition of valuing education. And they have made this break because they believe that what you don't know can't hurt them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (61%); WORLD WAR II (57%); RELIGION (52%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (68%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



355 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: With November in Mind, House Passes a Jobs Bill

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House overwhelmingly approved legislation on Thursday to ease small businesses' access to investments and capital markets, a sign that the shadow of the November election is pressing Congress into action.
The large margin of victory -- the bill passed 390 to 23 -- on the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act is expected to propel the legislation into law. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said a Senate version would probably be unveiled early next week. It largely reflects the House bill, which is known as the JOBS Act, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said he expected it to pass before the end of the month.
The vote came on the same day that Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said that the House was likely to set aside contentious efforts to draft its own transportation and infrastructure bill and take up a bipartisan Senate version once it passed. The Senate version cleared a crucial procedural hurdle on Thursday on the way to expected passage early next week. 
Republican leaders were open about the political pressure that was driving them toward bipartisanship.
''We are in an election season, and the test for any candidate is whether they can produce results,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said after the jobs bill passed.
Big fights are still ahead, especially over a budget proposal in the House and a dozen annual spending bills. But this week produced rare moments of cooperation among House Republicans, Senate Democrats and the White House.
''Today's vote shows both sides should be able to find common ground on this issue, and the president urges them to pass a bill and bring it to his desk without delay,'' said Amy Brundage, a White House spokeswoman.
In a news conference, Mr. Reid called the House bill ''commendable'' and ''a step forward,'' and he urged the lower chamber to approve the Senate transportation bill.
If success produces a thousand fathers, the JOBS Act will need a paternity test. White House officials stressed that many elements of the House version originated with President Obama's jobs council and proposals he laid out in the fall. And Mr. Schumer noted that he and Senator Patrick Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, first introduced the centerpiece of the House bill, which is ascribed to the freshman Representative Stephen Fincher, Republican of Tennessee.
The one sour note came on Wednesday when Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, angrily accused House Republican leaders of stealing a bill written by a Democrat, Representative Jim Himes of Connecticut, and giving it to a Republican, Representative Ben Quayle of Arizona.
After Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said Democrats were too concerned about credit, Mr. Frank accused him of issuing ''the most hypocritical and dishonest statement'' he had ''ever heard uttered in this House.'' The words were stricken from the official record.
The jobs legislation is narrowly tailored, even though it is being praised by all sides as a big help to the economy. The centerpiece would delay some Securities and Exchange Commission regulations that were passed as a response to the recession and would create a category of ''emerging growth companies'' that would lower the costs of initial public offerings for smaller firms.
Another measure would abolish an S.E.C. rule that prohibits small companies from advertising for investors, a ban that dates to 1982. The bill would also lift restrictions on ''crowd funding,'' which would let entrepreneurs raise capital from large pools of small investors. And the JOBS Act would increase the number of shareholders permitted to invest in a community bank to 2,000, from 500.
The 23 members who voted against the bill were mostly from the most liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and they expressed concern that the bill went too far in dismantling regulations that were intended to protect investors.
But for most, the imperative was to be seen as doing something about the recovering, but still anemic, job market.
Representative Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia, said: ''I think there's a huge sense of frustration with everybody, regardless of party. Nothing's getting done on the most significant issue facing them.'' She said lawmakers would say that their votes were not about the election, but, she added, ''Obviously you turn the corner in an election year.''
The transportation bill will be promoted as a jobs measure, too. Mr. Boehner surprised many Republicans when he told reporters what he had been hinting for a week: ''The current plan is to see what the Senate can produce and to bring that bill up.''
That would be a retreat for Mr. Boehner, who had pressed for a five-year transportation bill to be financed by opening up vast tracts of federal property -- on land and sea -- to oil production. Representative Bill Shuster, Republican of Pennsylvania, who was put in charge of the bill after the chairman of the House transportation committee failed to unite Republicans, expressed surprise at Mr. Boehner's statement.
But Ms. Capito, a member of the committee, said she understood the politics behind the announcement.
''It'll bring a different dynamic if the Senate passes a bill, and we're the ones holding back,'' she said. ''Our constituents want something done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House majority leader, Eric Cantor, center right, after the JOBS Act passed on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); STARTUPS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); LEGAL PATERNITY (61%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JIM HIMES (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); BEN QUAYLE (57%); STEPHEN FINCHER (57%); PAT TOOMEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



356 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Amid Finger-Pointing, Hurricane Relief Lags

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Nearly four years after Hurricanes Ike and Dolly wreaked havoc on the Texas coast, thousands of Texans are still waiting for housing assistance. The long-term disaster recovery effort financed by the federal government has made little headway. But where two state agencies faltered, another is stepping in.
According to a state report to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development at the end of June, none of the 4,100 homes that were expected to be rebuilt or reconstructed with federal money were completed. And by October, the state had spent only 10 percent of the federal money for long-term recovery.
''I can't even let anyone in the house,'' said Orison Bolden of Houston, whose home was damaged by Ike. ''It's just too shameful.'' A blue tarp still covers her house in the Third Ward, a historically black neighborhood south of downtown. Although discouraged, she still hopes to receive assistance. ''Just fix my roof,'' she said. ''I will try to go and find a job and fix the rest of my house piece by piece.'' 
In the wake of the 2008 storms, the state estimated that $3.4 billion was needed to repair or replace housing for thousands of uninsured Texans. It was also estimated that local governments would need $1.9 billion to fix damage to infrastructure like streets, water and sewage systems, and emergency equipment.
After emergency crews had rolled out, Congress appropriated $3 billion for Texas to help finance the infrastructure and housing recovery. Texas received the first round of money, $1.3 billion, in March 2009.
What followed, however, was a different kind of disaster, with long delays in money going out for housing.
Texas was ''the worst-performing state in the country on expenditure of funds and disaster money,'' said Mercedes Marquez, an assistant secretary of HUD, which administers the program on the federal level. She said the way the money was managed was a mistake.
Gov. Rick Perry's office said the federal government had caused the delay in allocating funds by not doling out the second round quickly.
Mr. Perry wanted communities under the direction of local governments to control how federal money was used, so the state devised a financing allocation process that turned over decision-making to regional councils of local government officials. The state's role was to oversee the process.
More than 200 local governments and nonprofits, still dealing with the emotions of the disaster, became responsible for executing recovery projects -- and complying with complex federal requirements on spending the money. If they did not get it right, they risked not receiving reimbursements.
Mr. Perry divided the administration of the program between two state agencies. The now-dissolved Texas Department of Rural Affairs, which usually oversaw federal grants for rural development, was in charge of nonhousing projects. The Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, which had been criticized over the disaster recovery program it administered after Hurricane Rita in 2005, oversaw the housing projects.
As HUD noted in monitoring reports, the state did not enact standard procedures for how local governments should process applications and write contracts for projects -- the result was bureaucratic chaos.
Mr. Perry's office fired back at HUD. ''The primary reasons that Texas' expenditure rate is not faster are due to HUD's delayed guidelines and bureaucratic micromanaging of the state's recovery efforts,'' Kathy Walt, Mr. Perry's deputy chief of staff, said in a letter to Ms. Marquez in November.
In late 2009, HUD rejected Texas' initial proposal for the second round of financing, $1.7 billion.
Ms. Walt wrote that HUD had demanded Texas reach an agreement with advocates for low-income housing who had filed complaints against the state before it would release the money.
''I honestly believe the state was headed off a cliff with Round 1 -- that they were not compliant with federal law,'' said John Henneberger, co-director of the Texas Low Income Housing Information Service, which was involved in the talks.
Many communities had skewed financing toward infrastructure repairs and away from the housing needs of individual families that lacked insurance or the financial means to rebuild after the storms, Mr. Henneberger said, despite federal laws requiring that the state direct a certain amount of money toward housing assistance. The poorest people were often left without help, and the state created ''a real problem in terms of not fairly serving people of color and persons with disabilities,'' he said.
An agreement in May 2010 between the governor's office and the housing advocates required the state to devote the majority of financing to housing in the second round, put performance measures and benchmarks in the state and local governments' contracts, and update the analysis the state used to identify poor and damaged areas needing aid.
HUD refused to release the second round of financing until the updated analysis was completed. And when HUD accepted the state's new analysis in May, it again held the funds until local governments completed training on how to interpret and use the document.
In June, Mr. Perry shifted the administration of the entire program to the General Land Office.
''We determined that putting this function, the responsibility for recovery, under one single agency that's headed by a statewide elected official would lead to efficiencies that the other two agencies hadn't really been able to achieve,'' said Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry.
Only 236 houses had been rebuilt with the federal funds when the land office took over, said Gary Hagood, the office's deputy commissioner of financial management. In eight months, the General Land Office helped increase the number of single-family homes rebuilt to 1,455, and 932 homes are under construction.
''This should have taken three or four years, but it just didn't happen,'' Mr. Hagood said. Although he is a proponent of local control, he said that running the program at the state level would have been faster, but that the delays do not fall solely on the state.
HUD can take up to 60 days to respond to submissions, and ''you have to work within their process, which is review, after review, after review,'' he said.
When he was brought in to revamp the program in early 2011, Mr. Hagood said, many of the contracts approved by state officials lacked performance measures and benchmarks for completion. ''That's just something we can't have in a program that really has a limited timeline,'' he said.
Mr. Hagood ensured aggressive timelines were put in the state's contracts. The program is now scheduled to be complete by the end of 2015, HUD has released the remaining money, and the state is awarding grants to local governments under the rules of the conciliation agreement.
In total, $1.6 billion has been budgeted for housing needs, with $238 million (14 percent) spent. For nonhousing projects, $1.4 billion is budgeted, with $262 million (18.6 percent) spent.
''The state is going to have to belly up and take some responsibility here and put in place a better way to do it next time,'' Mr. Henneberger said, ''or God forbid, the next hurricane or other major disaster, we're going to pay once again to learn all these lessons all over again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A tarp protects Orison Bolden's roof in Houston. Ms. Bolden, like thousands of others, is still waiting for housing assistance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); CITIES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



357 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: A Bit of Gloss on Obama's Presidency

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
Coming soon from the Academy Award-winning director Davis Guggenheim: ''The Road We've Traveled,'' an action-packed film for the Obama campaign that puts a Hollywood shine on President Obama's record. 
On Thursday morning, the movie's two-minute trailer ran on ''The Today Show'' on ABC before being posted on the campaign Web site. Copies of the full-length film, which lasts 17 minutes, will go out nationwide for supporters to view on March 15 at house parties, union halls, campuses and perhaps even some theaters if they can be rented, campaign officials said.
The trailer takes viewers back to election night 2008, as the soon-to-be first family - an increasingly prominent tableau in this election year - greets the mass of revelers in Chicago's Grant Park. The film, accompanied by pulsating music, then recounts the financial crisis that embroiled the Obama team months before the inauguration, as well as the rescue of the auto industry, passage of the 2010 health care law and the death of Osama bin Laden.
Mr. Guggenheim, who directed ''An Inconvenient Truth'' about Al Gore's efforts to slow climate change, was retained by the Obama campaign to make the biographical film for the Democratic National Convention.
The film is narrated by Tom Hanks, and features on-camera testimonials to Mr. Obama from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Rahm Emanuel, the former White House chief of staff who is now mayor of Chicago; and Austan Goolsbee, a former economic adviser.
In the closing, Mr. Biden tells of his thoughts after Mr. Obama ordered the Bin Laden mission: ''He's all alone. This is his decision. Nobody is standing there with him.'' The screen fills with a photo of Mr. Obama shot from behind, alone and silhouetted in a window of the Oval Office, that recalls the famous black-and-white photo of John F. Kennedy by the New York Times photographer George Tames.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); FILM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); DRAMA FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (66%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (52%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TOM HANKS (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); AL GORE (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



358 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Battle Over Keystone: Senate Kills Measures To Speed Pipeline

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Two measures that would have expedited, in different ways, the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline failed in the Senate on Thursday.
The votes on the measures - which were attached to a large transportation bill and required 60 votes for passage - came after President Obama personally lobbied several Democrats to vote against one of the measures, White House officials said. 
The first measure, sponsored by Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, called for the speedy review of any new permit applications related to the pipeline. The amendment, which failed 64 to 34, would have also required that the iron, steel and other goods used in the construction of the pipeline be made in the United States.
Another measure, sponsored by Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota, and fought by Mr. Obama, sought to remove the State Department's authority over the proposed project. The measure, which failed 56 to 42, would have allowed Nebraska officials to establish a new pipeline route within the state; an earlier route plan was opposed by the state's governor and many lawmakers. Republicans believe that the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline - which Mr. Obama has blocked for now - is one of the best weapons against Democrats at a time of high unemployment and climbing gasoline prices. They have repeatedly criticized Mr. Obama for opposing the expansion of the pipeline and portrayed him as acquiescing to the hard-left environmentalists in his base. Tellingly, 11 Democrats voted in favor of Mr. Hoeven's measure.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, derided Mr. Obama's efforts on the Senate floor Thursday. ''Think about it,'' he said. ''At a moment when millions are out of work, gas prices are literally skyrocketing and the Middle East is in turmoil, we've got a president who is up making phone calls trying to block a pipeline here at home. It's really almost unbelievable.''
Speaker John A. Boehner echoed those sentiments in a news conference later in the day. ''By 'personally lobbying' against the Keystone pipeline,'' he said, ''it means the president of the United States is lobbying for sending North American energy to China and lobbying against American jobs. So the president told the nation he supports an 'all-of-the-above' energy strategy that Republicans have long supported.''
The White House would not specify which Democrats the president lobbied.
A White House spokesman, Clark Stevens, said in a statement: ''As the president has made clear, we will ensure any project receives the important assessment it deserves, and the administration will base a decision to provide a permit on the completion of that review, a process that was unfortunately blocked by Republicans in December. Meanwhile we continue to take steps to support American-made energy, including doing all we can to expedite construction of a pipeline from Cushing, Okla., to refineries along the Gulf Coast.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); RON WYDEN (58%); JOHN HOEVEN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



359 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: In Video, Syrian Official Says He's Joining Uprising

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and RICK GLADSTONE; Kareem Fahim reported from Beirut, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, and J. David Goodman from New York.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- In a video statement denouncing what he called the ''brutal'' government of President Bashar al-Assad, a senior official in Syria's Oil Ministry announced on Thursday that he was switching to the opposition, in what appeared to be the highest-level defection of a government official since the start of the Syrian uprising nearly a year ago.
British and American officials, who have supported the overthrow of Mr. Assad's government, spoke about the defection of the deputy oil minister, Abdu Hussameldin, as a potentially significant event. Prominent Syrian opposition figures were more cautious about the development, with some saying it was unlikely to hurt the government seriously. 
''I don't consider such a defection a strike for the regime,'' said Samir Nachar, a member of the opposition Syrian National Council. ''It's more a political and moral message for loyalist figures and regime symbols who are still hesitant to declare their defection. It's just the beginning.''
Haytham Manna, a Syrian dissident based in Paris, said the defections of bureaucrats would not be enough to topple the government. ''The most important thing is the army,'' he said.
The inability to attract high-level defectors has been a continuing source of consternation for Mr. Assad's opponents and an enduring sign of the government's resilience, despite its growing international isolation. While the Libyan opposition was able to attract high-level government and military defectors days after the uprising began there -- and myriad other officials, from ambassadors to the foreign minister, as the conflict wore on -- the Syrian opposition is still waiting for one well-known person to step down and denounce the government.
Even so, a State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said the defection of Mr. Hussameldin, while not confirmed, could be significant and that he could be ''privy to a lot of information about what Assad has really done to his country.''
''He would be well placed, this particular individual, to understand the impact that the international sanctions that we, that the Europeans, that the Arab League, that other countries are now beginning to put on Syria,'' she said.
The video of Mr. Hussameldin, which first surfaced early Thursday in the Middle East, did not specify where or when it had been made, and he could not be reached to verify its authenticity.
In it, Mr. Hussameldin, a deputy assistant to the minister of Oil and Mineral Resources, said, ''I declare I am joining the people's revolution, which will not and will never accept oppression and the brutality practiced by the regime.''
Saying the country's economy was about to collapse, Mr. Hussameldin condemned Russia and China, contending that they were ''partners'' in the government's killing of civilians. ''I don't want to end my career in the service of this regime's crimes,'' he said.
Eiad Shurbaji, a prominent Syrian dissident and journalist who said he had worked with Mr. Hussameldin in 2004 and 2005, when Mr. Shurbaji was head of the Oil Ministry's media department, confirmed that Mr. Hussameldin was the man in the video.
Mr. Shurbaji said that Mr. Hussameldin was a friend and had served as a deputy under at least four ministers. Mr. Shurbaji said that when he worked at the ministry, the two men had long conversations over coffee that mostly focused on Mr. Hussameldin's complaints about corruption in the ministry.
''He was a clean person,'' said Mr. Shurbaji, who left Syria for the United States several months ago after he had been arrested and released by the authorities. ''I am so pleased to hear about this defection. He became aware where things are heading in Syria.''
The news of the defection came amid signs of other challenges to the government, which has seen the country's currency plunge to roughly half the value that it had a year ago.
Comments in Washington in recent days, most notably by Senator John McCain, the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, calling for aerial bombardment of Syria's military, apparently contributed to a demand for dollars by nervous money traders in Syria. That demand put new pressure on the Syrian pound, which has been eroding for months. Although senior Obama administration officials said they opposed military intervention in Syria, they did not rule out the option.
Quoting currency dealers in Damascus who were reached by telephone, Reuters reported that the Syrian pound had lost about 13 percent of its value in the past few days and was trading around 100 pounds to the dollar, compared with 47 pounds to the dollar last March, when the antigovernment uprising began.
International diplomatic efforts in Syria on Thursday focused mainly on how to provide emergency relief to civilians in Homs and other cities that have been upended by the violence. Several parts of the country are bereft of food, water and medical supplies, activists said.
Valerie Amos, the top United Nations relief official, who arrived in Syria on Wednesday to assess those needs, said she was overwhelmed by the destruction she saw from a monthlong military assault on Homs, an epicenter of armed resistance to Mr. Assad. She said she saw very few residents, particularly in the ravaged neighborhood of Baba Amr, and she wondered where they had gone.
Ms. Amos was preparing to leave Syria as Kofi Annan, the new special envoy on Syria representing the United Nations and the Arab League, was scheduled to visit on Saturday. He told reporters in Cairo that he would urge Mr. Assad and his opponents to stop fighting and seek a political solution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kofi Annan, in Cairo, is the new special envoy on Syria for the United Nations and the Arab League. He travels there on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Valerie Amos of the United Nations inspected an ambulance in Damascus, Syria. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); COUPS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



360 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar: A Warning on Voter Lists

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The leader of the political opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, said Thursday that the official voter lists for parliamentary elections next month included the names of dead people and raised questions about the potential for election fraud. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is running for a seat in Parliament, called on other nations to closely monitor the elections and to take into account how the country's election commission deals with complaints of electoral irregularities before determining their diplomatic policies toward Myanmar. The United States and other Western nations applied economic and political sanctions against Myanmar because its former military government was autocratic and had a poor human rights record. But they have started to consider easing the sanctions since an elected, though military-backed, government took power last year and began instituting reforms. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's political party, the National League for Democracy, is fielding candidates for all 48 seats at stake in the elections on April 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (88%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



361 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Are Warming To Obama Connection

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Just six months ago, having their names uttered in the same sentence as President Obama's was something many Congressional Democrats could have lived without.
But with the economy slowly crawling back to life, a shift in messaging at the White House and a Republican push on social issues, Democrats are accepting -- and in some cases openly embracing -- the inevitable yoking of their campaigns to Mr. Obama's as election-year activities accelerate. On Capitol Hill, Democrats have begun to mention Mr. Obama more often and have gone out of their way to publicly back some of his proposals.
Democrats say Mr. Obama's near monophonic campaigning in recent months -- highlighting his differences with Republicans on policies affecting the middle class -- is far more resonant in their districts and states than defending the health care law or the stimulus package, issues that have dogged Democrats.
Further, while Republicans spent most of 2011 dominating the national conversation on the federal deficit and seeking the upper hand in Congressional budget battles, Democrats have found themselves this winter on the more popular side of fights, including the recent one over a payroll tax holiday, which they believe Republicans turned into an unforced error for their team. 
''I think it's definitely shifting now,'' said Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware. ''In part it's just because the economy is improving. I don't know that it's springtime just yet, but the wind is coming back.''
This month, Mr. Obama's pivot into an ''all of the above'' energy policy platform, one more or less lifted from the Republicans' 2008 campaign, is something moderate Democrats, many of whom support things like the proposed Keystone XL pipeline that Mr. Obama has blocked, are also happy to hear.
''His focus on building jobs and restoring some stability in the middle class is what I have been focusing on all along,'' said Representative Timothy H. Bishop of New York. ''In 2010 the conversation was almost exclusively about health care, and there was so much emotion and so much fury. I think the climate is much calmer now.''
Republicans believe strongly that Mr. Obama remains a significant liability in states like Missouri, Montana and North Carolina, all places where Democrats are in jeopardy, as well as many Congressional districts where his policies remain radioactive.
Further, creeping gas prices, an escalation of the conflict in the Middle East or other factors could create severe head winds for Mr. Obama this year.
''By all means we would encourage Claire McCaskill, Jon Tester, Tim Kaine and all other Senate Democratic candidates to campaign on the president's record of massive government mandates, record spending, lost jobs and a $15 trillion debt,'' said Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.
While it is far too early to see if Democratic incumbents are willing to actually campaign with Mr. Obama, the evidence of their willingness to align with him is legislatively apparent.
For instance, Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, who last year proclaimed the president's large jobs package as too big to get his vote, happily picked off the payroll tax cut component of the bill and made it his own. Mr. Tester, in a tough re-election race in Montana, also focused on one piece of the bill -- a tax break for employers who hire veterans, which would be paid for by a surtax on millionaires -- and claimed it for his own.
Some lawmakers are seizing on what they perceive as the best part of Mr. Obama's record, and running with it, rhetorically. On the House floor recently, Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee said, ''I want to say that I'm proud to support President Obama, his jobs plan, his efforts to maintain the automobile industry strong in America, and to support him in Libya and root out Qaddafi and Al Qaeda in other places.''
Joyce Beatty, who won the Democratic primary Tuesday for a House seat in Ohio, has already sided with the president, ending a recent campaign advertisement with a shot of herself and Mr. Obama.
Senator Mark Begich of Alaska, who in September called Mr. Obama's proposal to eliminate tax breaks for oil companies ''frustrating,'' said last week that he was buoyed to hear Mr. Obama shift the conversation to his campaign-year energy policy, which includes increased domestic oil production.
''He goes down to Florida and actually mentions energy?'' Mr. Begich said. ''To me, that's what we should be focused on. We should talk about what middle-class Americans care about, and that's jobs, the economy, their tax rates.''
Mr. Begich, who is not up for re-election this year, even said that the much-maligned stimulus package had been good for his state, and that he was happy to embrace it. ''I am the only member of the delegation that voted for the recovery money,'' he said. ''You bet I talk about it.''
Many Republicans also concede that Mr. Obama is not quite as effective a symbol as he was in 2010, and that they will have to focus harder on specific policies where they part ways with Democrats to get their message out. ''It's probably not as much as a liability as you saw in 2010,'' said Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, about ties between Congressional Democrats and the White House.
Democrats also see opportunities to seize on cases in which Republicans have distanced themselves from some of the positions of Mitt Romney, a leading Republican presidential candidate. In Michigan, Representative Fred Upton and other Republicans have said they disagree with Mr. Romney's criticism of the auto industry bailout, and in foreclosure-wracked Nevada, Representative Joe Heck said he was not on the same page as Mr. Romney when it came to housing policies.
Of course, Democrats will not have a choice; Republicans are already running campaigns that will link them to the president in a negative way. ''I think without any question my opponent will, whether it is true or not, connect me to him,'' Mr. Bishop said. So they say they are trying to embrace what they can, and worry less about what they cannot stop.
''I try to control the things I can control, and the things I can't control I just need to be honest about.'' Mrs. McCaskill said. ''In many ways the president can be an asset, in some ways he is definitely not an asset in my state. It's a mixed bag.''
The recent drop in Missouri's unemployment rate, she hopes, will help her in areas of her state where Mr. Obama remains unpopular and is likely to run behind this year. ''I really think come November, if most Missourians are paying attention, they are going to realize it's in their best economic interest to re-elect the president,'' she said. ''And me, of course.''
Other Democrats said they would try to cherry-pick Mr. Obama's campaign themes, while still keeping their physical distance.
''The message that the president is running on is a message that most Democrats can get on board with now,'' said Representative Daniel Lipinski, who represents a more conservative district in and around Chicago. ''The people need a champion now, and that's more and more the president.''
However, asked if he was longing to campaign with Mr. Obama, Mr. Lipinski said, ''I am not answering that question.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Claire McCaskill and Representative Daniel Lipinski see ways President Obama can be helpful this fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN MYERS/REUTERS
 NAM Y. HUH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TIM KAINE (79%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (59%); JON TESTER (58%); DANIEL LIPINSKI (58%); TOM CARPER (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



362 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Portrait of a Hacker

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: In The New York Times on Friday, a portrait of Hector Xavier Monsegur, who helped bring down a group of politically motivated "hacktivists" in Europe and the United States. 

 BODY:
In The New York Times on Friday, N.R. Kleinfield and Somini Sengupta paint a portrait of Hector Xavier Monsegur, known on the Internet as Sabu. As a federal informant, Mr. Monsegur, 28, helped bring down a group of politically motivated "hacktivists" in Europe and the United States, who were indicted on Tuesday on computer crime charges.
Mr. Monsegur's base of operations was an apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He attended high school in New York, but left in 2001 without finishing the ninth grade. In recent years, he had been unemployed, the authorities said. They said he was active in computer and hacking circles as far back as the late 1990s.
In 2010, Mr. Monsegur said in a magazine interview, he was drawn to Anonymous, a leaderless, anti-authoritarian movement that has taken up various political causes. The catalyst, he said, was his outrage over the arrest of Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, the whistle-blower site. He became leader of a splinter group, Lulz Security, or LulzSec.
Mr. Monsegur's neighbors on the Lower East Side found him an irksome presence, complaining about noise from his apartment. "He partied all night," one neighbor said. "I always made complaints to the police. Nothing was done."

        
After Hacker Arrests, an Attack on the Vatican and a Growing Anxiety
        
Daily Report: Hackers Can't Trust Their Own
        
I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
        
Traveling Light in Russia and China Because of Digital Thievery
        
Hackers Step Up Attacks After Megaupload Shutdown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); CYBERCRIME (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (77%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); NOISE POLLUTION (66%); RELIGION (50%) Hacking; hector xavier monsegur; Sabu; Monsegur, Hector Xavier; Computer Security; Cyberattacks and Hackers; Security

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (52%) Monsegur, Hector Xavier; Sabu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



363 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: The Labor Department reported a net gain of 227,000 jobs for February and revised job growth upward for the preceding two months, illustrating just how deep a hole was left by the recession. 

 BODY:
The United States recovery continued to show more fruits in the workplace in February, with the Labor Department reporting a net gain of 227,000 jobs for the month. It was the third straight month of gains exceeding 200,000 -- and in fact, the job growth for the previous two months was revised upward by a total of 61,000.
The results provided new political fodder for President Obama in the presidential campaign -- but again illustrated just how deep a hole was left by the recession. Four years after employment peaked, scarcely one-third of the net loss in jobs has been reversed. To put it another way, by the Labor Department's count based on its survey of establishments, after shedding some 8.8 million jobs in about two years, the economy has generated about 3.45 million in the ensuing two years.

        
Unemployment by Job Category
        
Jobs Figures Keep Improving
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing Recoveries: Job Changes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%) February 2012 jobs report; historical comparisons; jobs; jobs report; Unemployment; Labor and Jobs; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



364 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Quad)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Leading Off: In College Sports, the Shadows Lurk

BYLINE: LYNN ZINSER


HIGHLIGHT: For basketball fans, it's the best time of the year, as long as they keep the blinders on. 

 BODY:
The problem with the bargain you make with yourself when you try to enjoy big-time college sports is, even in the midst of all the fun and pageantry at the best time of the year, the shadows keep closing in. It's possible to imagine this is all fun and innocence for about four minutes now. A buzzer sounds, the cheering fades and reality is soon storming the court and smashing all the illusions to pieces again.
Take the Big East tournament. Syracuse is giving everyone swathed in orange reason to dream of another national championship. It swatted away a run by pesky Connecticut, flashed its impressive depth in the face of a dismal performance by Scoop Jardine, and Coach Jim Boeheim quickly returned to answering questions about a drug-testing scandal, as Dana O'Neil writes on ESPN.com. Pete Thamel of The Times had already reminded us that the season has been both successful and dreadful for Boeheim, and the best thing you can say about the drug-testing scandal is it has replaced asking him about the fired assistant/accused child molester Bernie Fine. Even if you could avoid all of that, you've got Connecticut's barrel of woes, which includes at the moment being barred from next year's N.C.A.A. tournament for a dismal academic record. And then Dan Wetzel of Yahoo.com brings the reminder that much of what is fun and charming about the Big East tournament flies out the window when Syracuse ditches for the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2013, in case you needed to be reminded this whole shindig is not about fun and charm but vaults of money.
Oh, and did we mention Auburn's basketball team is being investigated for point-shaving allegations, according to Charles Robinson of Yahoo.com? The Birmingham News reports that the player in question, Varez Ward, denies the allegations and takes a closer look at the two games in question.
So, bulldoze all that out of the way if you can, reaffix your industrial strength blinders and get back to the business of who is chasing tournament bids, when N.C.A.A. officials will add to the farce by so earnestly calling the players student-athletes at every turn that it falls one beat short of a "Saturday Night Live" skit.
San Diego State is party central today after Jamaal Franklin's buzzer-beater topped Boise State in the Mountain West Conference tournament. Texas isn't celebrating its victory over Iowa State in the Big 12 as much as it issighing in relief at salvaging its hopes of being called student-athletes at the N.C.A.A. tournament. South Florida went the other direction by stumbling to an overtime loss to Notre Dame, and the Northwestern faithful are all but catatonic after the Wildcats squandered their latest opportunity to join the N.C.A.A. field. Instead of seizing the day, David Haugh writes in The Chicago Tribune, the day seized them. That helped give Thursday a "does anyone to make the N.C.A.A. tournament?" feel to it, writes Andy Glockner on SI.com.
While you were absorbing all of that, not much has changed in the N.F.L., which is still reverberating from the Peyton Manning release and the bounty scandal. It is worth lingering on Rick Reilly's column on ESPN.com on being thankful for Manning's Colts years, before moving to the news that his longtime trusty receiver Reggie Wayne likes the idea of them both signing in Miami. That idea has fans in LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, who are rooting for the Dolphins to add a star to the local lineup. Waiters in South Florida are also rooting for that after hearing Manning left a generous tip at a steakhouse in Raleigh, N.C., although they are less likely to take a picture of the bill and post it online because that got the server at the steakhouse fired. Wherever Manning goes, Clark Judge of CBSSports.com, urges him to do it quickly, for all of our sanity.
Bounty-gate is also in a holding pattern as everyone awaits the N.F.L.'s wrath, but the former Buffalo player Coy Wire believes it can be a chance for the league to change for the better, writes Johnette Howard on ESPN.com, even as he regrets his place in Gregg Williams's bounty economy. Ray Ratto of CBSSports.comequates the bounties to steroids in baseball, explaining that they fell out of favor the minute they became bad for business.
In the N.H.L., head injuries have become really bad for business, which is why the league may consider undoing some rule changes to improve safety, writes Nicholas Cotsonika on Yahoo.com. The endless speculation in the N.B.A. about Dwight Howard's future is trying some nerves, with the problem being that Howard is like a kid that doesn't know what he wants, writes Greg Couch on Foxsports.com. Baseball, meanwhile, is announcing the best way it knows how that its season is about to start: with its first absurd injury. For that, we can thank Tampa Bay pitcher David Price, who hurt his neck toweling himself off.
In college sports, we only injure ourselves trying to fend off reality.

        
Syracuse's Next Challenge: the Dreaded Double Bye
        
A Supportive Crowd at Syracuse
        
Leading Off: Meyer's About-Face
        
Video: Syracuse and UConn Prepare to Battle
        
A Big East Goal: Avoid the N.I.T. Watch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS TAMPERING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (52%) Big East Tournament; jim boeheim; Syracuse; Boeheim, Jim; Manning, Peyton; Price, David; Williams, Gregg; Basketball; College Athletics; Big East Conference; National Collegiate Athletic Assn

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (84%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%) Big East Conference; National Collegiate Athletic Assn

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Boeheim, Jim; Manning, Peyton; Price, David; Williams, Gregg

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



365 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | Sold for $88,000,000

BYLINE: MARC SANTORA


HIGHLIGHT: The sale of an $88 million penthouse at 15 Central Park West was entered into the city record books this week, enshrining it as both the most expensive transaction of the week and the highest price ever paid for a Manhattan apartment. 

 BODY:
The sale of an $88 million penthouse at 15 Central Park West was entered into the city record books this week, enshrining it as both the most expensive transaction of the week and the highest price ever paid for a Manhattan apartment.
It has been a wildly successful week for astronomically priced properties in the city. The top four sales were worth a total of nearly $156 million, including two homes each over $25 million and a downtown penthouse for $15 million. 
The most closely tracked property has been the 6,744-square-foot penthouse at 15 Central Park West. When the financierSanford I. Weill and his wife, Joan, put it on the market for more than $13,000 per square foot, there was some question as to whether the price was realistic. But a Russian billionaire, Dmitry Rybolovlev, paid the full asking price, reportedly buying the apartment for his 22-year-old daughter, Ekaterina.
Kyle W. Blackmon of Brown Harris Stevens represented the seller, and Maria Torresy, also of Brown Harris Stevens, represented the buyer. Both declined to comment, but someone familiar with the details of the sale said the pair would split a 4 percent commission, a payday total of around $3.5 million.
Two newly built town houses at 22-24 Downing Street were the runners-up, selling as a pair for $26.8 million to a buyer who will combine them into a single 12,000-square-foot home. 
The sale of the last residential apartment at the Plaza Hotel, a 6,300-square-foot four-bedroom penthouse, for $25.9 million, was next in line. The buyer was Christian Candy, a British developer responsible for the successful residential and commercial project at One Hyde Park in London.
Finally, the sale of a penthouse apartment at 429 Greenwich Street in TriBeCa for $15 million pushed the upper limits of what is possible in that neighborhood. A person familiar with the transaction said the buyer was a "celebrity client" attracted not only by the lap pool on the private terrace but also by a garage that allows for clandestine arrivals and departures.
Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $15,587,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $22,375,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9.79 million
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $17,000,000
        
Big Ticket | Sold for $9,020,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CELEBRITIES (61%) 15 Central Park West; Big Ticket; real estate; Upper West Side; Weill, Sanford I; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Brown Harris Stevens; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Brown Harris Stevens

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (86%) Weill, Sanford I

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



366 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2391 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Greece Reaches a Landmark Deal With Creditors | Greece has sealed its debt restructuring deal with better than expected participation from private creditors, The New York Times reports.
The Greek finance ministry said on Friday that 85.8 percent of private lenders holding 177 billion euros in Greek bonds signed on to the debt exchange. The high-stakes deal, which came after legal wrangling, clears the way for the country to get more bailout funds.
The question now is whether the restructuring will trigger credit default swap payments on an estimated 3 billion euros in claims. Greece is expected to invoke a collective action clause to force holdouts to accept the offer, bringing the participation rate to 95 percent.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association is meeting on Friday to discuss whether the agreement constitutes a credit event that would trigger the swaps.
NEW YORK TIMES
DEAL NOTES
Rubin Can't Figure Out the Volcker Rule | Speaking at a conference in New York, Robert E. Rubin said the difference between market-making and proprietary trading was murky. "I think I could spend the rest of my life trying to define that distinction and I wouldn't succeed at it," he said.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Fund Manager Aims for the Senate | Eric D. Hovde, who runs Hovde Capital Advisors, announced his candidacy in the race to replace Herb Kohl, the United States Senator from Wisconsin, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports.
MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL
A Bad Year for Billionaires | The annual Forbes list of the world's richest people has revealed that seven of the top 20 billionaires lost small chunks of their fortunes since last year.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
London Stock Exchange to Buy Stake in Clearinghouse | The London Stock Exchange Group agreed on Friday to buy up to a 60 percent stake in LCH.Clearnet, an independent clearinghouse for financial transactions, for $612 million.
DealBook 
Wal-Mart's Bid for Massmart Wins Court Approval | Wal-Mart's takeover of Massmart cleared a major hurdle on Friday, when an antitrust court in South Africa rejected the government's bid to scuttle the $2.4 billion deal. The ruling by the Competition Appeal Court, which also ordered that 500 fired workers be reinstated, was a crucial step in Wal-Mart's plan to tap growth in Africa.
REUTERS
Perella Weinberg Founder Confident Deal-Making Will Return | Speaking at Tulane University's Corporate Law Institute, Peter A. Weinberg said he and his firm believed that the assorted deal makers gathered here might not need to worry about the current stagnation of the mergers market.
DealBook 
Conflicts in Deal-Making, the Judge and Banker Perspective | At an industry conference, J. Travis Laster, the Delaware State judge who battered Barclays Capital for its roles in the Del Monte deal, and the investment bank's general counsel, Kevin Genirs, sounded off about conflicts in deal-making.
DealBook 
What the Deal Makers Are Talking About at Tulane | Among the hot topics is the recent Delaware Chancery Court litigation involving Kinder Morgan's acquisition of the El Paso Corporation and Tokio Marine Financial's acquisition of Delphi Financial, the Deal Professor writes.
DealBook 
London Metal Exchange Sets New Deadline for Bids | The firm has set a deadline for the next round of takeover bids, which could lead to the 1 billion ($1.6 billion) sale of the 135-year-old exchange.
DealBook 
Rare Earth Miner to Buy Processing Company | Molycorp, which runs a large rare earth metal mine in California, agreed to buy Neo Material Technologies, of Toronto, for $1.3 billion, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
New Republic Sells to a Facebook Co-Founder | Chris Hughes, a co-founder of Facebook who helped run online organizing for Barack Obama's presidential campaign, has bought a majority stake in The New Republic, with plans to focus on distributing the magazine through tablet computers, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Barclays Awards $10.3 Million to C.E.O. | Barclays said Friday it paid its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., 6.3 million, or $10.3 million, for last year, with overall pay falling at the big British bank as profit slipped.
DealBook 
Pandit Gets His Payday | Vikram S. Pandit, the Citigroup chief executive, made $14.86 million last year, compared with just $1 the year earlier, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
2 Nominated for Citi Board | Citigroup said on Thursday that Franz B. Humer, the chairman of the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche Holdings, and Joan E. Spero, a former president of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, had been nominated to its board.
DealBook 
Deutsche Bank Said to Take European Loans | The German lender, which had said taking state aid carried a stigma, accepted between $6.6 billion and $13.1 billion in the European Central Bank's lending program last week, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall St.'s Workforce Actually Grew Last Year | Wall Street firms expanded their payrolls by 4,900 workers between January 2011 and January 2012, according to the New York Department of Labor, despite retrenching throughout the industry, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
European Banks Face Rising Refinancing Costs | Attention is turning to the mountain of debt European banks will have to refinance over the next two years, and institutions in countries like Portugal and Greece are likely to see their financing costs rise in the coming years.
DealBook 
Protesters Heckle Bank of America Chief | Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, had barely begun his speech to analysts and investors at the Citi Financial Services conference when hecklers interrupted.
DealBook 
Bank of America Names Asia Head | Matthew Koder, who joined Bank of America in June as head of the Asian investment bank, has been promoted to lead the bank's Asian division, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
S.&P. Said to Shuffle Structured Finance Group | Standard & Poor's plans to name a new criteria officer for American structured finance, and it has removed executives who oversaw ratings for securities linked to mortgages, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Casino Said to Hire Banks for $3.7 Billion Loan | Las Vegas Sands, controlled by Sheldon Anderson, hired DBS Bank, the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation and the United Overseas Bank to coordinate the loan, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
For Misys, a Long Road to a Deal | The British software company Misys has had many suitors over the years, but now, with several potential bidders circling the company, it appears that a deal may get done, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Henry Silverman Joins Guggenheim Partners | The financier, who built the conglomerate Cendant, had held a senior post at the private equity giant Apollo Global Management and recently settled his three-year-old divorce dispute.
DealBook 
Cerberus Said to Be in Talks to Acquire AT&T's Yellow Pages | Cerberus is said to be in discussions to acquire a majority stake in Yellow Pages division of AT&T in a deal that would value the unit at about $1.5 billion.
DealBook 
CVC Said to Put Australian Hotel Company on the Block | CVC Capital Partners is selling the Mantra Group, which operates hotels and resorts in Australia and New Zealand, in what could be a roughly $630 million deal, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Carlyle Said to Add Banks for I.P.O. | The buyout firm, which is planning to go public this year, has added Barclays, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America and UBS to work on its offering, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Brokerage Backed by Carlyle Said to Close Unit | India Infoline, which is based in Mumbai, is closing its securities business in Singapore and cutting about 11 jobs, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with direct knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Activist Investor Charts Plan to Revitalize Yahoo | After spending years working behind the scenes to push for change, Daniel S. Loeb, a hedge fund manager, is once again openly admonishing management and battling a corporate board. The target: Yahoo.
DealBook  | Post a Comment
Dalio Builds His Unique Worldview | Ray Dalio, the Bridgewater Associates boss who is famous for philosophizing on the state of the economy, came up with his ideas largely through his own studies, The Economist writes. To help him understand what it was like to be an investor during the Great Depression, for instance, he read newspapers from that era and pretended to trade on the historical data.
ECONOMIST
A Strong Start to 2012 for Hedge Funds | One industry index, Eurekahedge, said hedge funds were up 4.3 percent through the end of February and that returns were as good in the first two months of 2012 as they had been in 12 years.
DealBook 
King Street Sees a Rebound in Europe | King Street Capital Management, which invests in distressed debt, said its European fund has gained ground so far this year, after last year's stumble, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
Ackman Likes McDonald's | William A. Ackman told CNBC that his 2005 investment in McDonald's had nearly doubled by the time he sold it, adding that he had "tremendous respect" for the company.
CNBC
Goldman Begins to Exit Hedge Funds | Goldman Sachs has begun to unwind its hedge fund investments to comply with the Volcker Rule, in a process that is expected to take more than two years, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Ziggo Plans I.P.O. to Raise $983 Million | The Dutch cable company said it was planning to raise up to $983 million through an initial public offering, the largest listing in Europe this year.
DealBook 
A.I.G. Shares Fall Amid Treasury Sale | Shares of the American International Group slid in early trading on Thursday after the Treasury Department said it would sell nearly 207 million shares at $29 a share.
DealBook 
Fender Looks to Rock the Public Markets | On Thursday, the company, whose guitars have been plucked by the likes of the Beatles, filed for an initial public offering as it looks to raise cash and amplify its standing in the music world.
DealBook 
Facebook Relies on a Few Big Spenders | The social network gets 15 percent of its revenue from online payments, in which people buy virtual currency for games, but that stream is generated by just 1.8 percent of its users, Bloomberg Businessweek reports.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Comcast Spurns Netflix | The cable company says it has no interest in offering Netflix to subscribers, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Giving Some Muscle to a Growing Fitness Trend | While many workout fads have been relegated to VHS tapes, two big investors have poured tens of millions of dollars into Zumba Fitness, a Latin American dance-based workout.
DealBook 
Sequoia Capital Invests $10 Million in Songkick | Songkick, an online service that alerts fans about local concerts by their favorite artists, has received a $10 million investment from Sequoia Capital.
DealBook 
Social Apps Pitch Themselves as Icebreakers | At the South by Southwest festival, which gave Twitter and Foursquare early buzz, a group of start-ups is betting that the next big thing is social networking apps that help people meet up with others who are nearby, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Crowd-Funding Comes With Risks | Catherine Mott, chair of the Angel Capital Association, said companies that raise initial capital from lots of small investors could run into trouble when they want to raise more money later on, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former Coca-Cola Bottling Executive Charged With Insider Trading | The Securities and Exchange Commission said a former executive at Coca-Cola Enterprises acted on nonpublic information about a pending deal with the Coca-Cola Company.
DealBook 
MF Global Executives May Get Bonuses | The failed brokerage's chief operating officer, finance chief and general counsel, who have assisted the bankruptcy trustee, could see performance-related payments of several hundred thousand dollars each, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bank of America Strikes Separate Deal on Mortgages | The bank will provide about 200,000 underwater homeowners with principal reductions of about $100,000 each, likely more than what other bank customers will receive under the national foreclosure settlement, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Financial Crisis Case May Have its Day in Court | A lawsuit against the insurer MBIA, which won regulatory approval in 2009 to split off the riskiest aspects of its business into a separate unit, may go to trial in May, which would make it the first major civil case from the crisis to do so, writes Floyd Norris in The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Stanford Was a No-Show in Trial | Jurors who decided the case against R. Allen Stanford said they wished he had taken the stand to testify, but one juror said the convicted financier's "ego was so big" that testimony might not have helped him, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
U.S. Can Go After Stolen Funds | The jury in the R. Allen Stanford case said American authorities can attempt to recover $330 million for investors, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Switzerland Wants a Deal on Taxes | The president of Switzerland said her country could sign an agreement "tomorrow" to resolve accusations that Swiss banks helped Americans avoid taxes, but it appears to the Swiss that American authorities don't want to compromise, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Wynn Counts a Victory in Legal Fight With Okada | A judge ordered Wynn Resorts to hand over just two pages of the many documents that Kazuo Okada's lawyers had requested, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); JUDGES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

COMPANY: LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC (81%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: LSE (LSE) (81%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (78%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



367 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2391 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Greece Reaches a Landmark Deal With Creditors | Greece has sealed its debt restructuring deal with better than expected participation from private creditors, The New York Times reports.
The Greek finance ministry said on Friday that 85.8 percent of private lenders holding 177 billion euros in Greek bonds signed on to the debt exchange. The high-stakes deal, which came after legal wrangling, clears the way for the country to get more bailout funds.
The question now is whether the restructuring will trigger credit default swap payments on an estimated 3 billion euros in claims. Greece is expected to invoke a collective action clause to force holdouts to accept the offer, bringing the participation rate to 95 percent.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association is meeting on Friday to discuss whether the agreement constitutes a credit event that would trigger the swaps.
NEW YORK TIMES
DEAL NOTES
Rubin Can't Figure Out the Volcker Rule | Speaking at a conference in New York, Robert E. Rubin said the difference between market-making and proprietary trading was murky. "I think I could spend the rest of my life trying to define that distinction and I wouldn't succeed at it," he said.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Fund Manager Aims for the Senate | Eric D. Hovde, who runs Hovde Capital Advisors, announced his candidacy in the race to replace Herb Kohl, the United States Senator from Wisconsin, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports.
MILWAUKEE JOURNAL SENTINEL
A Bad Year for Billionaires | The annual Forbes list of the world's richest people has revealed that seven of the top 20 billionaires lost small chunks of their fortunes since last year.
DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
London Stock Exchange to Buy Stake in Clearinghouse | The London Stock Exchange Group agreed on Friday to buy up to a 60 percent stake in LCH.Clearnet, an independent clearinghouse for financial transactions, for $612 million.
DealBook 
Wal-Mart's Bid for Massmart Wins Court Approval | Wal-Mart's takeover of Massmart cleared a major hurdle on Friday, when an antitrust court in South Africa rejected the government's bid to scuttle the $2.4 billion deal. The ruling by the Competition Appeal Court, which also ordered that 500 fired workers be reinstated, was a crucial step in Wal-Mart's plan to tap growth in Africa.
REUTERS
Perella Weinberg Founder Confident Deal-Making Will Return | Speaking at Tulane University's Corporate Law Institute, Peter A. Weinberg said he and his firm believed that the assorted deal makers gathered here might not need to worry about the current stagnation of the mergers market.
DealBook 
Conflicts in Deal-Making, the Judge and Banker Perspective | At an industry conference, J. Travis Laster, the Delaware State judge who battered Barclays Capital for its roles in the Del Monte deal, and the investment bank's general counsel, Kevin Genirs, sounded off about conflicts in deal-making.
DealBook 
What the Deal Makers Are Talking About at Tulane | Among the hot topics is the recent Delaware Chancery Court litigation involving Kinder Morgan's acquisition of the El Paso Corporation and Tokio Marine Financial's acquisition of Delphi Financial, the Deal Professor writes.
DealBook 
London Metal Exchange Sets New Deadline for Bids | The firm has set a deadline for the next round of takeover bids, which could lead to the 1 billion ($1.6 billion) sale of the 135-year-old exchange.
DealBook 
Rare Earth Miner to Buy Processing Company | Molycorp, which runs a large rare earth metal mine in California, agreed to buy Neo Material Technologies, of Toronto, for $1.3 billion, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
New Republic Sells to a Facebook Co-Founder | Chris Hughes, a co-founder of Facebook who helped run online organizing for Barack Obama's presidential campaign, has bought a majority stake in The New Republic, with plans to focus on distributing the magazine through tablet computers, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Barclays Awards $10.3 Million to C.E.O. | Barclays said Friday it paid its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., 6.3 million, or $10.3 million, for last year, with overall pay falling at the big British bank as profit slipped.
DealBook 
Pandit Gets His Payday | Vikram S. Pandit, the Citigroup chief executive, made $14.86 million last year, compared with just $1 the year earlier, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
2 Nominated for Citi Board | Citigroup said on Thursday that Franz B. Humer, the chairman of the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Roche Holdings, and Joan E. Spero, a former president of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, had been nominated to its board.
DealBook 
Deutsche Bank Said to Take European Loans | The German lender, which had said taking state aid carried a stigma, accepted between $6.6 billion and $13.1 billion in the European Central Bank's lending program last week, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Wall St.'s Workforce Actually Grew Last Year | Wall Street firms expanded their payrolls by 4,900 workers between January 2011 and January 2012, according to the New York Department of Labor, despite retrenching throughout the industry, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
European Banks Face Rising Refinancing Costs | Attention is turning to the mountain of debt European banks will have to refinance over the next two years, and institutions in countries like Portugal and Greece are likely to see their financing costs rise in the coming years.
DealBook 
Protesters Heckle Bank of America Chief | Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, had barely begun his speech to analysts and investors at the Citi Financial Services conference when hecklers interrupted.
DealBook 
Bank of America Names Asia Head | Matthew Koder, who joined Bank of America in June as head of the Asian investment bank, has been promoted to lead the bank's Asian division, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
S.&P. Said to Shuffle Structured Finance Group | Standard & Poor's plans to name a new criteria officer for American structured finance, and it has removed executives who oversaw ratings for securities linked to mortgages, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Casino Said to Hire Banks for $3.7 Billion Loan | Las Vegas Sands, controlled by Sheldon Anderson, hired DBS Bank, the Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation and the United Overseas Bank to coordinate the loan, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
For Misys, a Long Road to a Deal | The British software company Misys has had many suitors over the years, but now, with several potential bidders circling the company, it appears that a deal may get done, The Financial Times writes.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Henry Silverman Joins Guggenheim Partners | The financier, who built the conglomerate Cendant, had held a senior post at the private equity giant Apollo Global Management and recently settled his three-year-old divorce dispute.
DealBook 
Cerberus Said to Be in Talks to Acquire AT&T's Yellow Pages | Cerberus is said to be in discussions to acquire a majority stake in Yellow Pages division of AT&T in a deal that would value the unit at about $1.5 billion.
DealBook 
CVC Said to Put Australian Hotel Company on the Block | CVC Capital Partners is selling the Mantra Group, which operates hotels and resorts in Australia and New Zealand, in what could be a roughly $630 million deal, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Carlyle Said to Add Banks for I.P.O. | The buyout firm, which is planning to go public this year, has added Barclays, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America and UBS to work on its offering, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Brokerage Backed by Carlyle Said to Close Unit | India Infoline, which is based in Mumbai, is closing its securities business in Singapore and cutting about 11 jobs, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people with direct knowledge of the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Activist Investor Charts Plan to Revitalize Yahoo | After spending years working behind the scenes to push for change, Daniel S. Loeb, a hedge fund manager, is once again openly admonishing management and battling a corporate board. The target: Yahoo.
DealBook  | Post a Comment
Dalio Builds His Unique Worldview | Ray Dalio, the Bridgewater Associates boss who is famous for philosophizing on the state of the economy, came up with his ideas largely through his own studies, The Economist writes. To help him understand what it was like to be an investor during the Great Depression, for instance, he read newspapers from that era and pretended to trade on the historical data.
ECONOMIST
A Strong Start to 2012 for Hedge Funds | One industry index, Eurekahedge, said hedge funds were up 4.3 percent through the end of February and that returns were as good in the first two months of 2012 as they had been in 12 years.
DealBook 
King Street Sees a Rebound in Europe | King Street Capital Management, which invests in distressed debt, said its European fund has gained ground so far this year, after last year's stumble, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
Ackman Likes McDonald's | William A. Ackman told CNBC that his 2005 investment in McDonald's had nearly doubled by the time he sold it, adding that he had "tremendous respect" for the company.
CNBC
Goldman Begins to Exit Hedge Funds | Goldman Sachs has begun to unwind its hedge fund investments to comply with the Volcker Rule, in a process that is expected to take more than two years, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Ziggo Plans I.P.O. to Raise $983 Million | The Dutch cable company said it was planning to raise up to $983 million through an initial public offering, the largest listing in Europe this year.
DealBook 
A.I.G. Shares Fall Amid Treasury Sale | Shares of the American International Group slid in early trading on Thursday after the Treasury Department said it would sell nearly 207 million shares at $29 a share.
DealBook 
Fender Looks to Rock the Public Markets | On Thursday, the company, whose guitars have been plucked by the likes of the Beatles, filed for an initial public offering as it looks to raise cash and amplify its standing in the music world.
DealBook 
Facebook Relies on a Few Big Spenders | The social network gets 15 percent of its revenue from online payments, in which people buy virtual currency for games, but that stream is generated by just 1.8 percent of its users, Bloomberg Businessweek reports.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Comcast Spurns Netflix | The cable company says it has no interest in offering Netflix to subscribers, The New York Times Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Giving Some Muscle to a Growing Fitness Trend | While many workout fads have been relegated to VHS tapes, two big investors have poured tens of millions of dollars into Zumba Fitness, a Latin American dance-based workout.
DealBook 
Sequoia Capital Invests $10 Million in Songkick | Songkick, an online service that alerts fans about local concerts by their favorite artists, has received a $10 million investment from Sequoia Capital.
DealBook 
Social Apps Pitch Themselves as Icebreakers | At the South by Southwest festival, which gave Twitter and Foursquare early buzz, a group of start-ups is betting that the next big thing is social networking apps that help people meet up with others who are nearby, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Crowd-Funding Comes With Risks | Catherine Mott, chair of the Angel Capital Association, said companies that raise initial capital from lots of small investors could run into trouble when they want to raise more money later on, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former Coca-Cola Bottling Executive Charged With Insider Trading | The Securities and Exchange Commission said a former executive at Coca-Cola Enterprises acted on nonpublic information about a pending deal with the Coca-Cola Company.
DealBook 
MF Global Executives May Get Bonuses | The failed brokerage's chief operating officer, finance chief and general counsel, who have assisted the bankruptcy trustee, could see performance-related payments of several hundred thousand dollars each, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Bank of America Strikes Separate Deal on Mortgages | The bank will provide about 200,000 underwater homeowners with principal reductions of about $100,000 each, likely more than what other bank customers will receive under the national foreclosure settlement, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Financial Crisis Case May Have its Day in Court | A lawsuit against the insurer MBIA, which won regulatory approval in 2009 to split off the riskiest aspects of its business into a separate unit, may go to trial in May, which would make it the first major civil case from the crisis to do so, writes Floyd Norris in The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Stanford Was a No-Show in Trial | Jurors who decided the case against R. Allen Stanford said they wished he had taken the stand to testify, but one juror said the convicted financier's "ego was so big" that testimony might not have helped him, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
U.S. Can Go After Stolen Funds | The jury in the R. Allen Stanford case said American authorities can attempt to recover $330 million for investors, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Switzerland Wants a Deal on Taxes | The president of Switzerland said her country could sign an agreement "tomorrow" to resolve accusations that Swiss banks helped Americans avoid taxes, but it appears to the Swiss that American authorities don't want to compromise, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Wynn Counts a Victory in Legal Fight With Okada | A judge ordered Wynn Resorts to hand over just two pages of the many documents that Kazuo Okada's lawyers had requested, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); JUDGES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

COMPANY: LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC (81%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: LSE (LSE) (81%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (78%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



368 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: The Uncertain Cost of Helping Illegal Immigrants Go to College

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: One of the main concerns about legislation in Albany is how much it would cost the state, and projections rely in part on guesswork. 

 BODY:
Much of the public debate surrounding proposals to allow illegal immigrants to receive state financial aid for college has centered on questions of legality: Would such legislation legitimize the status of people in the country without authorization?
But lawmakers have also been puzzling over another critical matter: How much would it cost the state? 
Advocates for the bill who met this week with a member of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's staff said costs seemed to weigh heavily on the minds of administration officials.
"They said once they study all the fiscal impacts, the potential impacts of the bill, they will get back to us," said Daniela Alulema, a board member at the New York State Youth Leadership Council, one of the groups pushing for the legislation. "That's all we were able to obtain from that meeting."
The State Education Department estimated the cost at $627,428 per year in a measure it sent to the Legislature in December. That proposal is one of several circulating in Albany, all of which are commonly known as the New York State Dream Act.
The department's proposal would make state tuition assistance available to illegal immigrants attending public colleges in the state. (A different measure pending in the Legislature would expand eligibility to include illegal immigrants attending private colleges in the state.) But the Education Department's estimate has been criticized by some analysts as unrealistically low.
Now the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization in New York City, has taken a stab at the math and on Friday it published its estimates. 
The report, called "The New York Dream Act: A Preliminary Estimate of Costs and Benefits," estimates that opening the state's Tuition Assistance Program to all students who meet the funding criteria, regardless of immigration status, would increase tuition assistance expenditures by about $17 million per year, or 2 percent. 
But the report's authors cautioned that their calculations were far from exact, especially considering that any estimate of the size of the illegal immigrant population involves guesswork.
"Given the high degree of uncertainty around numerous factors, the estimate here should be understood to be a rough approximation," the report says. 
The researchers began their number-crunching by estimating how many illegal immigrant students graduated each year from high school in New York State (3,627). This was based on work by Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, who estimated the number of illegal immigrants graduating from high school nationwide (65,000). 
The researchers then used the statewide figure to estimate the number of illegal immigrants continuing on to college -- and here is where their calculations diverged most significantly from the Education Department's.
While the Education Department estimated that about 227 illegal immigrants enroll at the state's public colleges every year, the Fiscal Policy Institute researchers said the number was more likely closer to 1,777. The institute's estimate includes students enrolled at both public and private institutions, but the overwhelming majority attend public colleges. The researchers also said that the number might rise because the availability of tuition assistance might make college more attractive to more illegal immigrants.
The institute's researchers then assumed that most illegal immigrant students would have low family incomes and therefore qualify for the maximum amount of tuition assistance, though the researchers predicted that only about two-thirds of them would actually apply for it. 
In assessing the benefits of the Dream Act, the institute concluded that a better-educated immigrant work force would result in higher salaries and, thus, higher local and state tax revenue. (The report provides a detailed analysis of these cost-benefit estimates.) 
"Increasing the education level of workers also increases their productivity, and the more highly educated a state's labor force, the more attractive is that state as a place to locate businesses," the report says. 
"Having large numbers of undocumented workers should not be considered a permanent situation: federal reform is urgently needed to fix immigration policy," the report continues. "But gridlock at the federal level should not prevent New York State from investing in its own economy."

        
Children of Immigrants Are Focus of City-Backed Education Project
        
Treating Patients When Language Is Only One of the Barriers
        
A One-Man Immigration Protest on 72nd Street
        
Podcast: Whose Huddled Masses?
        
9/11 Immigrant Survivors Move Toward Legal Status

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); WRITERS (64%) illegal immigration; Cuomo, Andrew M; Dream Act (Development, Relief and Education for Minors Act); Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; Tuition; Fiscal Policy Institute; New York State; Higher Education

ORGANIZATION: Fiscal Policy Institute

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (87%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



369 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: African Critics of Kony Campaign See a 'White Man's Burden' for the Facebook Generation

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: African bloggers and activists have suggested that the "Kony 2012" campaign reinforces the old idea that Africans are helpless and caring for them is "the white man's burden." 

 BODY:
Updated | Saturday | 12:13 p.m. As my colleagues David Goodman and Jennifer Preston explain, a viral marketing campaign to raise awareness of the suffering inflicted on African children by the warlord Joseph Kony has dominated social media conversations this week, despite concerns that the young Americans behind it might be spreading factual inaccuracies and wasting donors' money.
While much of the backlash reported in the American news media this week cited objections raised by development experts in the United States and Europe, several African bloggers and activists have objected to what they see as more fundamental problems. Among them, the possibility that the "Kony 2012" campaign reinforces the old idea, once used to justify colonial exploitation, that Africans are helpless and need to be saved by Westerners. 
Many African critics of the new effort to make Mr. Kony, the brutal leader of the Lord's Resistance Army, a household name in the United States -- five months after President Obama pleased Human Rights Watch and annoyed Rush Limbaugh by dispatching military advisers to aid in his capture -- said it echoed the ideas in Rudyard Kipling's poem, "The White Man's Burden," written in 1899 to urge Americans to embrace their imperial destiny and rule over the "new-caught, sullen peoples," of the Philippines -- even though the typical native was "half-devil and half-child." 
In a critique of the campaign posted on YouTube, Rosebell Kagumire, a Ugandan blogger, observed that the filmmaker behind the "Kony 2012" viral video calling for action "plays so much on the idea that this war has been going on because millions of Americans" and other Westerners, "have been ignorant about it." 
Speaking directly to the camera, Ms. Kagumire added:
this is another video where I see an outsider trying to be a hero rescuing African children. We have seen these stories a lot in Ethiopia, celebrities coming in Somalia, you know, it does not end the problem. I think we need to have kind of sound, intelligent campaigns that are geared towards real policy shifts, rather than a very sensationalized story that is out to make one person cry, and at the end of the day, we forget about it.
I think it's all about trying to make a difference, but how do you tell the story of Africans? It's much more important what the story is, actually, because if you are showing me as voiceless, as hopeless... you shouldn't be telling my story if you don't believe that I also have the power to change what is going on. And this video seems to say that the power lies in America, and it does not lie with my government, it does not lie with local initiatives on the ground, that aspect is lacking. And this is the problem, it is furthering that narrative about Africans: totally unable to help themselves and needing outside help all the time.
A Ugandan journalist, Angelo Izama, took up the same theme, arguing that all such campaigns aimed at "saving hapless Africans," were problematic because, "the simplicity of the 'good versus evil,'" narrative, "where good is inevitably white/Western and bad is black or African, is also reminiscent of some of the worst excesses of the colonial-era interventions." 
In an angry blog post, dismissing the Kony campaign as a "fund-raising stunt," the Ugandan-American activist TMS Ruge wrote: "We as Africans, especially the diaspora, are waking to the idea that our agency has been hijacked for far too long by well-meaning Western do-gooders with a guilty conscience, sold on the idea that Africa's ills are their responsibility." He added:
Africa is our problem, we hereby respectfully request you let us handle our own matters. We will make mistakes here and there, sure. That is expected. But the trade-off of writing our own destiny far outweighs the self-assigned guilt the world assigned to us. If you really want to help, keep the guilt and charity in your backyard. Bring instead, respect, and the humility to let us determine our destiny.
As Max Fisher reported for The Atlantic, the Nigerian-American novelist Teju Cole, responded to the Kony campaign on Twitter with "Seven thoughts on the banality of sentimentality." In his biting critique, Mr. Cole wrote that the American charity behind the Kony campaign, Invisible Children, was part of what he called the "White Savior Industrial Complex," along with the economist Jeffrey Sachs, The Times Op-Ed columnist Nicholas Kristof and the organizers of the TED conferences on technology, entertainment and design.
1- From Sachs to Kristof to Invisible Children to TED, the fastest growth industry in the US is the White Savior Industrial Complex.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
2- The white savior supports brutal policies in the morning, founds charities in the afternoon, and receives awards in the evening.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
3- The banality of evil transmutes into the banality of sentimentality. The world is nothing but a problem to be solved by enthusiasm.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
4- This world exists simply to satisfy the needs-including, importantly, the sentimental needs-of white people and Oprah.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
5- The White Savior Industrial Complex is not about justice. It is about having a big emotional experience that validates privilege.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
6- Feverish worry over that awful African warlord. But close to 1.5 million Iraqis died from an American war of choice. Worry about that.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
7- I deeply respect American sentimentality, the way one respects a wounded hippo. You must keep an eye on it, for you know it is deadly.
- Teju Cole (@tejucole) March 8, 2012
Watching the viral hubbub over the campaign build from North Africa, the Egyptian activist Mosa'ab Elshamy was distinctly unimpressed. Mr. Elshamy, who took part in the revolution that toppled President Hosni Mubarak last year, and documented it on Twitter, told The Lede: "I felt awkward about the whole thing without even reading the tons of critiques on the Internet. It just doesn't make sense: the whole exploiting teenagers to buy bracelets and paint graffiti just to make them feel they've done something." 
On the brighter side, he observed, the campaign did at least generate some inspired comedy, in the form of an online photo book imagining how the entire thing might have been dreamed up at the White House to justify President Obama's deployment of troops to Africa.
But the greatest thing about stupid campaigns like KONY is that it always brings out the best comedy. Like this. i.imgur.com/K3mgn.jpg
- Mosa'ab Elshamy (@mosaaberizing) March 9, 2012
Updated: After this post was originally published, the blogger Rosebell Kagumire pointed to an outraged open letter to Jason Russell, the American filmmaker behind Invisible Children and the "Kony2012" video, written by Amber Ha, a student at Columbia University. Ms. Ha wrote: "Last year I went to Gulu, Uganda, where Invisible Children is based, and interviewed over 50 locals. Every single person questioned Invisible Children's legitimacy and intention." 
On her blog, Ms. Ha also posted a link to a response to the video from Adam Branch, an American expert on "the politics of human rights intervention," who currently lives and works in Kampala, Uganda. Writing on the Web site of Uganda's Makerere Institute of Social Research, Mr. Branch observed: "As someone who has worked in and done research on the war in northern Uganda for over a decade, much of it with a local human rights organization based in Gulu, the Invisible Children organization and their videos have infuriated me to no end." He added:
My frustration with the group has largely reflected the concerns expressed so eloquently by those individuals who have been willing to bring the fury of Invisible Children's true believers down upon themselves in order to point out what is wrong with what this group of young Americans is doing: the warmongering, the self-indulgence, the commercialization, the reductive and one-sided story they tell, their portrayal of Africans as helpless children in need of rescue by white Americans, and the fact that civilians in Uganda and central Africa may have to pay a steep price in their own lives so that a lot of young Americans can feel good about themselves, and a few can make good money. This, of course, is sickening, and I think that Kony 2012 is a case of Invisible Children having finally gone too far. They are now facing a backlash from people of conscience who refuse to abandon their capacity to think for themselves....
Invisible Children is a symptom, not a cause. It is an excuse that the US government has gladly adopted in order to help justify the expansion of their military presence in central Africa. Invisible Children are "useful idiots," being used by those in the US government who seek to militarize Africa, to send more and more weapons and military aid, and to build the power of military rulers who are US allies. The hunt for Joseph Kony is the perfect excuse for this strategy-how often does the US government find millions of young Americans pleading that they intervene militarily in a place rich in oil and other resources? The US government would be pursuing this militarization with or without Invisible Children-Kony 2012 just makes it a bit easier. Therefore, it is the militarization we need to worry about, not Invisible Children.

        
Human Rights Group Welcomes Obama's Decision to Send Troops to Uganda
        
Limbaugh Defends Lord's Resistance Army
        
Before His Death, Ugandan Gay Rights Activist Explained Hostile Climate
        
Video of Uganda Bombing Aftermath and Survivors' Accounts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%) Joseph Kony; Lord's Resistance Army; Uganda; Cole, Teju; Kipling, Rudyard; Kony, Joseph; Russell, Jason; Advertising and Marketing; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Social Networking (Internet); Africa; News; u.s.; world

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (51%) Cole, Teju; Kipling, Rudyard; Kony, Joseph; Russell, Jason

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (94%); UGANDA (93%); EUROPE (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%) Africa; Uganda

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



370 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Will There Be "Pink Slime" in Your Child's School Lunch?

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Meat trimmings, connective tissue, fatty scraps and ammonia: what's in your hamburger? 

 BODY:
"Pink Slime:" it's tasty (well, probably not), nutritious (oops, not that either) and cheap (got that right) and it's probably found in a hamburger near you. Most particularly, in the hamburger or cheeseburger that almost certainly graced the lunch menu at your child's school this month.
"Pink Slime" is the appetizing term for a ground-up amalgam of beef scraps, cow connective tissues, and other beef trimmings, once useful only for dog food and cooking oil, that are treated with ammonia to kill pathogens and then added to stretch the use of "traditional" ground beef (what most people once called simply "ground beef"). It's also known as "lean finely textured beef," and it's produced by a single, rather profitable, company in the United States: Beef Products Inc.
As The Times described in 2009, faced with a glut of fat, connective tissue and other once largely unsaleable remnants, the company's founder developed a process that turned those slaughterhouse trimmings, which were more prone to contamination with E. coli and salmonella, into desirable (to hamburger-makers) filler by compressing them and exposing them to ammonia gas, killing the pathogens.
The term "pink slime" came from one of two whistle-blowing former U.S. Department of Agriculture scientists who are on a crusade against the stuff, and particularly against its unlabeled inclusion in everything from school lunches to, according to ABC News, up to 70 percent of all supermarket ground beef. It's "not nutritionally equivalent," Carl S. Custer told The Daily. This is "economic fraud," Gerald Zirnstein told ABC News. "It's a cheap substitute."
After the celebrity chef Jamie Oliver went on a tirade against the filler last year, McDonald's, Taco Bell and Burger King decided to stop padding their meat offerings with it. Still, the U.S.D.A. plans to purchase 7 million pounds of it for use in school lunches over the coming year - and whether yours is a community where school lunches are prepared with loving care, or one where they're more of a standard production, if your children's school uses the meat that the complex federal and state bidding and supplying system procures, then the odds that they're serving "pink slime" are high. And they might never know it.
Once Beef Products settled on a method of processing the beef trimmings that allowed them to be deemed fit for human consumption, it turned its focus to lobbying. First, it prevailed on the question of whether ammonia should be listed as an ingredient. Then, it turned its attention to the labeling of the filler itself. "U.S.D.A. officials with links to the beef industry labeled it meat," said ABC News. "The under secretary said, 'it's pink, therefore it's meat,' " said Mr. Custer.
Maybe the use of the trimmings, ammonia and all, is just fine. After all, as Rob Lyons wrote for the Huffington Post, "Getting every last bit of meat off a carcass is a good thing, given the cost of rearing a cow. Butchers and meat processors are proud of the fact that they use everything but the moo." As for the ammonia, it doesn't sound appealing, but if you question whether or not your family sometimes consumes chemicals that it wouldn't necessarily have occurred to you to eat or drink, one read of Patrick Di Justo's "What's Inside: Tap Water" from the March issue of Wired magazine should remind you otherwise.
But what's really bothersome about this is that we, as consumers, as school officials, and as parents, have no way of knowing if "pink slime" or "lean finely textured ground beef" is on the menu for one simple reason: paid corporate lobbyists convinced government officials that we don't need to know, and not, I suspect, because they had our best interests at heart. Someone, somewhere, thought that we wouldn't buy a product labeled "ground beef, with added connective tissues, fatty trimmings, and ammonia" -- not for ourselves, and not for our schools.
I think they were right.

        
What's in Your Child's School Lunch?
        
Teaching Children to Love Healthy Food
        
More Children Need a Free Breakfast, Lunch - and Dinner
        
The Case Against Banning Chocolate Milk
        
Can Breakfast Replace Family Dinner?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEEF (92%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (90%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); PARENTING (90%); BACTERIA (90%); MEATS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); FOOD MISLABELING (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (76%); MAMMALS (76%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (75%); ANIMAL FOODS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); PRODUCT LABELING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); NUTRITION (72%); E COLI (72%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (71%); PET FOODS (70%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (65%); CELEBRITIES (50%) Food; school lunch; Children and Childhood; Families and Family Life; Labeling and Labels; Lunch and Breakfast Programs; Meat; Parenting; Beef Products Inc

COMPANY: BEEF PRODUCTS INC (69%); TACO BELL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%) Beef Products Inc

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



371 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: This morning, and eight more times before Election Day, President Obama and his Republican rivals for the White House will wake up to face an uncertain political moment, when the jobs numbers are announced. 

 BODY:
This morning, and eight more mornings before Election Day, President Obama and his Republican rivals for the White House will wake up to face an uncertain, and potentially dangerous, political moment.
This morning, and again on the first Friday of each month, the federal government will announce the number of jobs created or lost in the previous month, and the corresponding unemployment rate. The uncertainty is the tricky part.
The Labor Department could announce a slower pace of job growth and an uptick in the national unemployment rate, which currently stands at 8.3 percent. An increase of only 150,000 jobs, and a downward revision of January's surprisingly strong growth, is possible.
On the other hand, gains in the labor market could once again push the unemployment rate down, while adding confidence in the ability of the private sector to create jobs. Or, as analysts expect, the numbers could show a modest gain of around 200,000 new jobs and an unemployment rate that remains the same.
For Mr. Obama, the announcement, which will be made at 8:30 a.m. Eastern, holds the potential to extend a slow political recovery that started, in part, with a better-than-expected jump in the job creation numbers unveiled at the beginning of February.
Combined with the drop in the unemployment rate, the February jobs report helped spark a turnaround in Mr. Obama's approval rating and served as the raw material for a new optimism from the president and his aides as he travels around the country.
"Over the last two years, we've created over 3.5 million jobs, just in the private sector," Mr. Obama said at a fund-raiser in New York last week. "Manufacturing is stronger than it's been since the 1990s. We've now had 10 consecutive quarters of growth."
The positive jobs numbers in February have proved to be a potent political weapon for Mr. Obama and his allies. The modest evidence of improvement in the economy has put the Republican candidates for president -- and particularly Mitt Romney -- back on their heels a bit.
But just as quickly, a disappointing set of numbers this morning would shift the political dynamic in the favor of the Republicans. 
Mr. Romney, whose campaign has been built around the idea that he can fix the economy, stands to benefit from fresh ammunition that he can use to attack Mr. Obama's policies. Evidence that the country's growth is stalling again in the face of rising oil prices and economic uncertainty in Europe could give Mr. Romney's arguments new urgency.
Still, Mr. Romney, like Mr. Obama, faces his own risks if he allows himself to be lured by a single day's economic data. 
For weeks, Mr. Romney has been forced to argue the kind of hypothetical case that is often difficult for voters to grasp: that the positive job growth in recent months would have been even better if someone other than Mr. Obama was in office. Someone like himself.
If the unemployment rate drops again, along with a surprising increase in the number of jobs created, Mr. Romney will again have to find a way to explain the contrast between an improving economy and his criticism of Mr. Obama's policies.
On the other hand, Mr. Romney's political fortunes could turn around on any of the remaining Fridays if the economy slows down. Mr. Romney can't be seen as hoping for a slowdown. But if one happens, he will seize on it.
In fact, the biggest test for Mr. Obama and his Republican adversaries in the months to come may be how agile they are in responding to the ups and downs of the jobs reports.
For the last couple of months, Mr. Obama has had the upper hand. But economists have said they see some dark clouds ahead that threaten the economy and could slow the recovery of the job market.
Those include continued headwinds from the lingering soverign debt crisis in Europe, the rising price of oil driven by the instability in the Middle East, and the housing market in the United States, which remains depressed.
In Congressional testimony at the end of last month, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, expressed doubt that the country would see strong and sustained growth any time soon.
"The recovery of the U.S. economy continues, but the pace of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical standards," Mr. Bernanke said.
If he's right, the president may be forced to adjust his rhetoric again to avoid looking overly rosy about a still-struggling economy. If Mr. Bernanke is wrong, Mr. Romney or another Republican nominee will be the ones doing the adjusting.
We will know more at 8:30 a.m. - and every month from now at the same time.

        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Barbour Slams Obama on Economy and Energy
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
Democrats Keep Focus on Romney
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); FUNDRAISING (64%) 2012; economy; jobs; jobs report; mitt romney; president obama; Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Unemployment; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BEN BERNANKE (73%) Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



372 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Prediction Markets and Elections

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with Justin Wolfers, a Penn economist, on how prediction markets like Intrade fared on Super Tuesday. 

 BODY:
Justin Wolfers, a University of Pennsylvania economics professor on leave at Princeton this year, has written frequently about prediction markets like Intrade. You can find research papers on the topic on his Web page and on the page of Eric Zitzewitz, a Dartmouth professor. The patterns in the data have made Professor Wolfers believe that these markets - where traders effectively bet on the outcome of real-world events - are a better guide to the future than experts are. 
On Tuesday night, the Intrade odds connected to the Republican primary in Ohio fluctuated wildly, causing some people to question the usefulness of prediction markets. Professor Wolfers thinks the skeptics are mostly wrong. Since Super Tuesday, he and I have exchanged a series of e-mails on the issue. A lightly edited transcript of the exchange appears below.
David Leonhardt: On Twitter last night, I wrote that Super Tuesday was a good night for Intrade skeptics. The odds of Mitt Romney winning Ohio swung rapidly, from about 90 percent in the early evening to below 30 percent to nearly 100 percent by the end of the night. You - gently - took issue with me, pointing out that even events with 90 percent probability do not happen all of the time.
That's a fair point. But I still emerged from the night thinking that Intrade did not do an especially good job of synthesizing the available information about Ohio. What's your take?
Justin Wolfers: The fact that predictions vary isn't necessarily evidence that they are wrong - if the data are also varying as strongly. If the flow of news really did initially favor Romney, then Santorum, then later Romney, then so should the predictions. The question is whether the prices fluctuated by more or less than available data justified.

As a proxy, let's look at Nate Silver - one of the most sophisticated poll readers in the country -- and see if he did a better job. His afternoon forecast was that Romney was 64% likely to win Ohio. By 9:40 p.m.: "Pretty sure Santorum is a slight favorite in Ohio. He's maybe ~60%-70% likely to win." But at 11 p.m.: "Yes, now Romney starting to look pretty good in Ohio" You'll notice that, like Intrade, Mr Silver's forecasts also fluctuated wildly. But unlike Intrade, he spent much of the night maintaining that Santorum would win - which turned out to be a poor forecast.
The question here is: If not prediction markets, then what? The best alternative - indeed, basically the only alternative - is to listen to the pundits. And they fluctuated at least as much (probably more!) than Intrade. For just one example among many, look at the tweets of Slate's Dave Weigel, who went from calling the entire nomination over, to calling the Ohio race close, to calling it for Romney again.
My point is not that Intrade is perfect. But it may be the less imperfect than the alternatives. And that's good enough.
David Leonhardt: I agree that it's not enough to argue that Intrade is imperfect. And I agree that Intrade often has useful information in its odds. But there does seem to be one pattern to its imperfections: it is too slow to take new information into account. 
At about 9:30 last night, there did not seem to be any reason to make Romney a strong favorite to win Ohio. The exit polls were virtually tied, and Santorum had pulled ahead in the vote count. But Intrade still gave Romney more than a 60 percent chance to win. At 9:42, I wrote on Twitter, "Good data point on [the question of] whether Intrade is too slow to react: It has Romney at around 68% to win Ohio -- but falling."
Sure enough, Romney's odds soon began to plummet. At 9:56 p.m., he was down to 29 percent. So for a good half hour, there seemed to be little wisdom-of-the-crowds in the Intrade prices. It was simply slow. This isn't the only such example. In 2008, for instance, Intrade was also slow to respond to news involving the California Democratic primary. 
I look at all this and conclude that Intrade suffers from illiquidity problems - too few traders - and that its odds sometimes do not reflect all available information. To put it another way, Intrade sometimes has a momentum problem: once prices start moving, they keep moving - because the market isn't reacting quickly enough to new information. Do you disagree? 
Justin Wolfers: I'm not so sure that Super Tuesday supports your point. Yes, you thought that Intrade's market rated Romney too strong of a chance at 9:30 p.m. But in a market, there's a buyer for every seller. Intrade's price reflected both sellers who thought Romney was over-rated matched with buyers who thought he was under-rated. You just happen to be in the former group. But really, David, it's a funny criticism: You don't trust Intrade because it said that the guy who ultimately won was likely to ultimately win!
The reason that I follow prediction markets on election day, because they are typically way ahead of the talking heads. For instance, I was live-blogging the 2008 election count for The Wall Street Journal, and called the election at 9:49 p.m. - based on prediction market data. The networks didn't call it until 11 p.m.
Even so, I agree that Intrade can sometimes lag the very best of expert opinion. For instance, on election night in 2004, Intrade probably lagged the stock market by about 20 minutes. (See Figure 1 in this paper.) So prediction markets do better than pundits, but perhaps financial markets do better, still.
Finally, I think illiquidity can be a big problem for Intrade markets. If the electoral race is uninteresting, or some time in the distance, there won't be a lot of trade. And when this happens, the market isn't that helpful. (For instance, will there be a brokered convention? While Intrade says it's a 14% chance, there's not enough trade to feel confident about this prediction.) But on big elections with a lot of interest - like Super Tuesday - it tends to move pretty well.
David Leonhardt: I assume you agree that the way to answer these questions is through further study. Over time, these prediction markets are likely to become more liquid. And academic researchers will also spend more time studying them, so that we can find out which ways they are predictably illogical. To your point about the stock market: I can never predict with confidence what a stock will do over a short period, but I still feel confident doing so with prediction markets.
Justin Wolfers: David, I don't normally give advice. But for you, I'll make an exception. If you're confident that you know which way a prediction market will move, then buy low, and sell high. You'll be rich in no time. And you'll make the market more responsive and efficient, too. 
But before you take this advice, make sure that you aren't just suffering hindsight bias -- remembering the times you correctly picked which way the market moved, and forgetting the rest.

        
Rick Perry's Intrade Flash Crash
        
Bin Laden and Inefficient Markets
        
What We're Reading: Cheap Gas and Obesity
        
Nobel Betting
        
Supreme Court Betting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TRANSCRIPTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%) Intrade; Justin Wolfers; prediction markets; voting; Wolfers, Justin; Elections; Forecasts; Presidential Election of 2012; Markets

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%) Intrade

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) Wolfers, Justin

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



373 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: This morning, and eight more times before Election Day, President Obama and his Republican rivals for the White House will wake up to face an uncertain political moment, when the jobs numbers are announced. 

 BODY:
This morning, and eight more mornings before Election Day, President Obama and his Republican rivals for the White House will wake up to face an uncertain, and potentially dangerous, political moment.
This morning, and again on the first Friday of each month, the federal government will announce the number of jobs created or lost in the previous month, and the corresponding unemployment rate. The uncertainty is the tricky part.
The Labor Department could announce a slower pace of job growth and an uptick in the national unemployment rate, which currently stands at 8.3 percent. An increase of only 150,000 jobs, and a downward revision of January's surprisingly strong growth, is possible.
On the other hand, gains in the labor market could once again push the unemployment rate down, while adding confidence in the ability of the private sector to create jobs. Or, as analysts expect, the numbers could show a modest gain of around 200,000 new jobs and an unemployment rate that remains the same.
For Mr. Obama, the announcement, which will be made at 8:30 a.m. Eastern, holds the potential to extend a slow political recovery that started, in part, with a better-than-expected jump in the job creation numbers unveiled at the beginning of February.
Combined with the drop in the unemployment rate, the February jobs report helped spark a turnaround in Mr. Obama's approval rating and served as the raw material for a new optimism from the president and his aides as he travels around the country.
"Over the last two years, we've created over 3.5 million jobs, just in the private sector," Mr. Obama said at a fund-raiser in New York last week. "Manufacturing is stronger than it's been since the 1990s. We've now had 10 consecutive quarters of growth."
The positive jobs numbers in February have proved to be a potent political weapon for Mr. Obama and his allies. The modest evidence of improvement in the economy has put the Republican candidates for president -- and particularly Mitt Romney -- back on their heels a bit.
But just as quickly, a disappointing set of numbers this morning would shift the political dynamic in the favor of the Republicans. 
Mr. Romney, whose campaign has been built around the idea that he can fix the economy, stands to benefit from fresh ammunition that he can use to attack Mr. Obama's policies. Evidence that the country's growth is stalling again in the face of rising oil prices and economic uncertainty in Europe could give Mr. Romney's arguments new urgency.
Still, Mr. Romney, like Mr. Obama, faces his own risks if he allows himself to be lured by a single day's economic data. 
For weeks, Mr. Romney has been forced to argue the kind of hypothetical case that is often difficult for voters to grasp: that the positive job growth in recent months would have been even better if someone other than Mr. Obama was in office. Someone like himself.
If the unemployment rate drops again, along with a surprising increase in the number of jobs created, Mr. Romney will again have to find a way to explain the contrast between an improving economy and his criticism of Mr. Obama's policies.
On the other hand, Mr. Romney's political fortunes could turn around on any of the remaining Fridays if the economy slows down. Mr. Romney can't be seen as hoping for a slowdown. But if one happens, he will seize on it.
In fact, the biggest test for Mr. Obama and his Republican adversaries in the months to come may be how agile they are in responding to the ups and downs of the jobs reports.
For the last couple of months, Mr. Obama has had the upper hand. But economists have said they see some dark clouds ahead that threaten the economy and could slow the recovery of the job market.
Those include continued headwinds from the lingering soverign debt crisis in Europe, the rising price of oil driven by the instability in the Middle East, and the housing market in the United States, which remains depressed.
In Congressional testimony at the end of last month, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, expressed doubt that the country would see strong and sustained growth any time soon.
"The recovery of the U.S. economy continues, but the pace of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical standards," Mr. Bernanke said.
If he's right, the president may be forced to adjust his rhetoric again to avoid looking overly rosy about a still-struggling economy. If Mr. Bernanke is wrong, Mr. Romney or another Republican nominee will be the ones doing the adjusting.
We will know more at 8:30 a.m. - and every month from now at the same time.

        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Barbour Slams Obama on Economy and Energy
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
Democrats Keep Focus on Romney
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); FUNDRAISING (64%) 2012; economy; jobs; jobs report; mitt romney; president obama; Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Unemployment; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BEN BERNANKE (73%) Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



374 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: On Friday morning, and eight more times before Election Day, President Obama and his Republican rivals for the White House will wake up to face an uncertain political moment, when the jobs numbers are announced. 

 BODY:
The report on Friday morning that the private sector added 227,000 jobs in February provides President Obama a new opportunity to extend his slow political recovery. 
But it will be followed in the months ahead by eight more jobs reports before Election Day in November, each a political moment that will remain uncertain and potentially dangerous for Mr. Obama and his Republican rivals.
In each report, the Labor Department could announce a slower pace of job growth and a jump up in the national unemployment rate, which stands at 8.3 percent. Or, gains in the labor market could once again push the unemployment rate down, while adding confidence in the ability of the private sector to create jobs. 
The uncertainty is the tricky part.
For Mr. Obama, the last two months have revealed a better-than-expected jump in the job creation numbers. Combined with a drop in the unemployment rate, last month's jobs report helped spark a turnaround in Mr. Obama's approval rating and served as the raw material for a new optimism from the president and his aides as he travels around the country.
Friday morning's report is likely to encourage more positive rhetoric from the president.
"Over the last two years, we've created over 3.5 million jobs, just in the private sector," Mr. Obama said at a fund-raiser in New York last week. "Manufacturing is stronger than it's been since the 1990s. We've now had 10 consecutive quarters of growth."
The positive numbers that were released in last month's report proved to be a potent political weapon for Mr. Obama and his allies. The modest evidence of improvement in the economy has put the Republican candidates for president - and particularly Mitt Romney - back on their heels a bit.
But just as quickly, a disappointing set of numbers in the months to come would shift the political dynamic in the favor of the Republicans. 
Alan B. Krueger, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, acknowledged the danger in a statement Friday morning.
"The monthly employment and unemployment numbers can be volatile, and employment estimates can be subject to substantial revision," Mr. Krueger said. "Therefore, as the administration always stresses, it is important not to read too much into any one monthly report; nevertheless, the trend in job market indicators over recent months is an encouraging sign."
Mr. Romney, whose campaign has been built around the idea that he can fix the economy, stands to benefit from fresh ammunition to attack Mr. Obama's policies. Evidence that the country's growth is stalling again in the face of rising oil prices and economic uncertainty in Europe could give Mr. Romney's arguments new urgency.
Still, Mr. Romney, like Mr. Obama, faces his own risks if he allows himself to be lured by a single day's economic data.
For weeks, Mr. Romney has been forced to argue the kind of hypothetical case that is often difficult for voters to grasp: that the positive job growth in recent months would have been even better if someone other than Mr. Obama was in office. Someone like himself.
If the unemployment rate drops again, along with a surprising increase in the number of jobs created, Mr. Romney will again have to find a way to explain the contrast between an improving economy and his criticism of Mr. Obama's policies.
On the other hand, Mr. Romney's political fortunes could turn around on any of the remaining Fridays if the economy slows down. Mr. Romney can't be seen as hoping for a slowdown. But if one happens, he will seize on it.
In fact, the biggest test for Mr. Obama and his Republican adversaries in the months to come may be how agile they are in responding to the ups and downs of the jobs reports.
For the last couple of months, Mr. Obama has had the upper hand. But economists have said they see some dark clouds ahead that threaten the economy and could slow the recovery.
Those include continued headwinds from the lingering sovereign debt crisis in Europe, the rising price of oil driven by instability in the Middle East, and the housing market in the United States, which remains depressed.
In Congressional testimony at the end of last month, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, expressed doubt that the country would see strong and sustained growth any time soon.
"The recovery of the U.S. economy continues, but the pace of expansion has been uneven and modest by historical standards," Mr. Bernanke said.
If he's right, the president may be forced to adjust his rhetoric again to avoid looking overly rosy about a still-struggling economy. If Mr. Bernanke is wrong, Mr. Romney or another Republican nominee will be the ones doing the adjusting.

        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Barbour Slams Obama on Economy and Energy
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
Democrats Keep Focus on Romney
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); FUNDRAISING (65%) 2012; economy; jobs; jobs report; mitt romney; president obama; Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Unemployment; Republican Party; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BEN BERNANKE (73%) Bernanke, Ben S; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



375 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: During Factory Visit, Obama Hails Jobs Report

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Visiting a manufacturing plant in Virginia on Friday, President Obama praised the recent report of strong job growth, saying that the nation has "come a long way." 

 BODY:
PETERSBURG, Va. - President Obama is not claiming mission accomplished, but on Friday, he hailed the latest monthly report of jobs growth by saying, "Day by day, we're restoring this economy from crisis."
While the addition of 230,000 private-sector jobs in February was not enough to further shrink the 8.3 percent unemployment rate, the news did keep alive a positive trend that is perhaps the best Mr. Obama can hope for as he campaigns for re-election arguing that his policies are working.
Mr. Obama, speaking from the floor of a new manufacturing plant in this election battleground state, said the nation had "come a long way," creating almost 4 million jobs in the past two years. But that total is about half the number of jobs lost in the recession and financial crisis since 2007. As usual, Mr. Obama tempered his optimism, having learned from the experience of the past two years that global events like the debt crisis in Europe can unexpectedly put a damper on economic growth. 
In what has become almost routine on each Friday the government releases the monthly jobs report, Mr. Obama traveled outside Washington to deliver his response from a factory floor, reflecting his emphasis on the manufacturing sector. Not far from the state capital of Richmond, the site this month was Rolls-Royce North America's Crosspointe plant, which makes precision-engineered discs for jet engines.
"More companies are bringing jobs back and investing in America," Mr. Obama said. "And manufacturing is adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s."
He added, "This facility is part of the evidence of what's going on all across the country."
The White House chose the plant, which opened last year, as an exemplar of manufacturing jobs "in-sourced" to the United States by a foreign-based corporation, in contrast to the out-sourcing of past decades as American companies exported jobs to low-wage nations. While economists say manufacturing alone cannot create enough jobs to restore the country to pre-recession levels of growth and employment, Mr. Obama has made advanced manufacturing a focus of his economic agenda.
After touring an assembly line in protective goggles with his commerce secretary, John E. Bryson, a former utility executive, Mr. Obama spoke to about 1,500 local residents and officials against the cavernous backdrop of the brightly lighted, high-tech factory, with scores of blue-shirted employees behind him. Among the guests was Virginia's Republican governor, Bob McDonnell, who has been mentioned as a possible Republican vice-presidential nominee.
"We can't go back to the same policies that got us into this mess," Mr. Obama said, in a statement that came the closest to an attack on his Republican opposition.
James M. Guyette, the chairman, president and chief executive of Rolls-Royce North America, said afterward in an interview that the company had committed to local and state governments, which provided land and tax incentives, that it would ultimately create 600 jobs. He said the plant now employed about 150 people. Mr. Obama, in his speech, said another 200 were soon to be hired, 140 of them from the area. Another 100 jobs are being added at another plant in Indiana.
"America can compete, and that's why we're investing in America," Mr. Guyette said.
Like the president, Mr. Guyette expressed confidence in the economy, but cautiously. "You can see a gradual recovery, and I think the question is, how fast?" he said. 
While Mr. Guyette said he detected "green shoots" throughout the economy, he added, "Let's not get overly enthusiastic. It's going to be gradual."
Mr. Obama used the Rolls-Royce plant to promote a $1 billion proposal in his annual budget that would create a National Network for Manufacturing Innovation of up to 15 institutes across the country. Each would serve as a regional hub to facilitate cooperation among local industries, universities and community colleges, and state and federal agencies to invest in advanced manufacturing technologies, in hopes of spurring product development and job creation in the each area.
But like much of Mr. Obama's budget for the next fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, the prospects for his proposal in Congress are uncertain at best. That goes as well for the ideas that Mr. Obama showcased on Wednesday in North Carolina, another battleground state. There, he proposed new and enhanced tax incentives for consumers and businesses that buy alternative-power cars and trucks, awards for cities that provide support like battery-charger stations, and federal money for research to make clean-energy vehicles better and more affordable.
After his Virginia visit, Mr. Obama was to fly to Texas, a Republican state that his campaign has no hope of winning in November but that is still a source of political money. He will speak at two fund-raisers in Houston, one a rallylike event for those making smaller contributions, the second a private dinner for donors giving $35,800 for his campaign and the Democratic Party.

        
McDonnell Says a Governor Should Replace Obama
        
Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals
        
Obama Calls on Congress to 'Keep Going'
        
'Keep It Going,' Obama Says of Economic Recovery
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EURO CRISIS (68%) barack obama; economy; jobs report; manufact; Virginia; Obama, Barack; United States Economy; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: ROLLS-ROYCE NORTH AMERICA INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN E BRYSON (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



376 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Why Job Growth Is Likely to Slow

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Readings on economic output indicate that the recent rate of job growth won't be sustained, complicating President Obama's economic narrative. 

 BODY:
 If you looked only at the monthly jobs report, you could start getting pretty optimistic about the American economy. The largest, broadest survey of employment - a survey of businesses - shows the best job growth in more than five years over the last 12 months, with the pace mostly accelerating in recent months. The other survey that the Labor Department does - of households - shows even faster job growth, suggesting that the business survey may be understating the economy's strength.
But the jobs report isn't the only measure of economic activity, and another major measure - of gross domestic product - doesn't look quite so cheerful. The most likely situation is that job growth will slow in coming months, economists say, which will make President Obama's economic narrative a bit more complicated than it now is.
On Friday, Macroeconomic Advisers, one of the most closely watched forecasting firms, reduced its estimate of economic growth in the current quarter to an annual rate of 1.8 percent, from 2 percent. And 1.8 percent growth does not generally lead to very strong job growth. In the fourth quarter of last year, by comparison, the economy grew 3 percent.
Beyond the current quarter, forecasters expect the economy will grow at an annual rate of 2 to 2.5 percent for the rest of the year, according to Bloomberg.
Based solely on the gross domestic product numbers, the obvious conclusion is that job growth will slow in coming months. Over the last six months, the average monthly gain in nonfarm employment has been 201,000; over the last three months, the average gain has been 245,000.
Sure enough, most forecasters do expect job growth to slow. Barclays Capital expects 200,000 jobs a month for the rest of the year. IHS Global Insight forecasts a slowdown to 180,000 jobs a month. Macroeconomic Advisers says it will slow to 140,000 jobs a month in the final three quarters of this year.
"We don't get anything like the booming labor market with 300,000 jobs," said Laurence H. Meyer, senior managing director of Macroeconomic Advisers and former Federal Reserve governor. "It would take much stronger than we have to do that."
As a benchmark, the economy needs to create roughly 125,000 jobs a month to keep up with population growth.
Why do economists expect growth to slow? The warm winter has probably pulled some spending forward into the last few months and will reduce spending in coming months, says Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR Inc. in New York. Rising oil prices also play a role. So does the continuing debt overhang, which makes a sustained recovery difficult.
None of these forecasts should be taken as gospel, of course. Maybe the gross domestic product numbers are wrong and will be revised upward in coming months, as government economists receive more data about the economy's condition. Maybe the recent job gains will lead to a surge in confidence that lifts spending above expected levels. 
But the most likely path includes a slowdown in job growth. It's easy to forget that on a day with a jobs report as positive as this one.
My colleagues Binyamin Appelbaum and Annie Lowrey have each written recent articles with more details on the predicted slowdown.

        
Unemployment by Job Category
        
Jobs Figures Keep Improving
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Has the He-covery Become a She-covery?
        
Looking for a Labor Force Comeback

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STATISTICS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%) February 2012 jobs report; jobs; jobs report; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



377 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: During Factory Visit, Obama Hails Jobs Report

BYLINE: JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Visiting a manufacturing plant in Virginia on Friday, President Obama praised the recent report of strong job growth, saying that the nation has "come a long way." 

 BODY:
PETERSBURG, Va. - President Obama is not claiming mission accomplished, but on Friday he hailed the latest monthly report of jobs growth by saying, "Day by day, we're restoring this economy from crisis."
While the addition of 230,000 private-sector jobs in February was not enough to further shrink the 8.3 percent unemployment rate, the news did keep alive a positive trend that is perhaps the best Mr. Obama can hope for as he campaigns for re-election arguing that his policies are working.
Mr. Obama, speaking from the floor of a new manufacturing plant in this election battleground state, said the nation had "come a long way," creating almost 4 million jobs in the past two years. But that total is about half the number of jobs lost in the recession and financial crisis since 2007. As usual, Mr. Obama tempered his optimism, having learned from the experience of the past two years that global events like the debt crisis in Europe can unexpectedly put a damper on economic growth. 
In what has become almost routine on each Friday the government releases the monthly jobs report, Mr. Obama traveled outside Washington to deliver his response from a factory floor, reflecting his emphasis on the manufacturing sector. Not far from the state capital of Richmond, the site this month was Rolls-Royce North America's Crosspointe plant, which makes precision-engineered discs for jet engines.
"More companies are bringing jobs back and investing in America," Mr. Obama said. "And manufacturing is adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s."
He added, "This facility is part of the evidence of what's going on all across the country."
The White House chose the plant, which opened last year, as an exemplar of manufacturing jobs "in-sourced" to the United States by a foreign-based corporation, in contrast to the out-sourcing of past decades as American companies exported jobs to low-wage nations. While economists say manufacturing alone cannot create enough jobs to restore the country to pre-recession levels of growth and employment, Mr. Obama has made advanced manufacturing a focus of his economic agenda.
After touring an assembly line in protective goggles with his commerce secretary, John E. Bryson, a former utility executive, Mr. Obama spoke to about 1,500 local residents and officials against the cavernous backdrop of the brightly lighted, high-tech factory, with scores of blue-shirted employees behind him. Among the guests was Virginia's Republican governor, Bob McDonnell, who has been mentioned as a possible Republican vice-presidential nominee.
"We can't go back to the same policies that got us into this mess," Mr. Obama said, in a statement that came the closest to an attack on his Republican opposition.
James M. Guyette, the chairman, president and chief executive of Rolls-Royce North America, said afterward in an interview that the company had committed to local and state governments, which provided land and tax incentives, that it would ultimately create 600 jobs. He said the plant now employed about 150 people. Mr. Obama, in his speech, said another 200 were soon to be hired, 140 of them from the area. Another 100 jobs are being added at another plant in Indiana.
"America can compete, and that's why we're investing in America," Mr. Guyette said.
Like the president, Mr. Guyette expressed confidence in the economy, but cautiously. "You can see a gradual recovery, and I think the question is, how fast?" he said.
While Mr. Guyette said he detected "green shoots" throughout the economy, he added, "Let's not get overly enthusiastic. It's going to be gradual."
Mr. Obama used the Rolls-Royce plant to promote a $1 billion proposal in his annual budget that would create a National Network for Manufacturing Innovation of up to 15 institutes across the country. Each would serve as a regional hub to facilitate cooperation among local industries, universities and community colleges, and state and federal agencies to invest in advanced manufacturing technologies, in hopes of spurring product development and job creation in the each area.
But like much of Mr. Obama's budget for the next fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, the prospects for his proposal in Congress are uncertain at best. That goes as well for the ideas that Mr. Obama showcased on Wednesday in North Carolina, another battleground state. There, he proposed new and enhanced tax incentives for consumers and businesses that buy alternative-power cars and trucks, awards for cities that provide support like battery-charger stations, and federal money for research to make clean-energy vehicles better and more affordable.
After his Virginia visit, Mr. Obama was to fly to Texas, a Republican state that his campaign has no hope of winning in November but that is still a source of political money. He will speak at two fund-raisers in Houston, one a rallylike event for those making smaller contributions, the second a private dinner for donors giving $35,800 for his campaign and the Democratic Party.

        
McDonnell Says a Governor Should Replace Obama
        
Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals
        
Obama Calls on Congress to 'Keep Going'
        
'Keep It Going,' Obama Says of Economic Recovery
        
Democrats Say Romney Ad Distorts Obama's Comments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EURO CRISIS (68%) barack obama; economy; jobs report; manufact; Virginia; Obama, Barack; United States Economy; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: ROLLS-ROYCE NORTH AMERICA INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN E BRYSON (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



378 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Economy Shows Solid Job Gains For a 3rd Month

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN; Robbie Brown and Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After a stretch of economic expansion so weak that Main Street struggled to detect any improvement, three consecutive months of solid employment growth have begun to lift the mood of consumers and the unemployed.
The economy added 227,000 jobs in February, the Labor Department reported Friday, and though the unemployment rate held steady at 8.3 percent, that was largely because nearly half a million people had joined, or resumed, the search for work in hopes their prospects had improved.
''We've seen a lot less Eeyore,'' said Sherry Leginski, operations director at CareerPlace, a job placement center in the Chicago suburb of Barrington. ''Maybe they're turning a little bit more Tigger instead of Eeyore. They're feeling better.''
Looking over her recent cases, Ms. Leginski cited a new college graduate who found work helping the developmentally disabled, a 60-year-old manufacturing specialist whose contract job in Mexico had led to full-time work back home, and a financial services worker who had landed a management job in Charlotte, N.C. 
Such improvement, if it continues, will most likely be a boost for President Obama as he makes a case to voters that his economic policies have been working. Republicans quickly criticized it as too little, too late. Still, the report coincided with other signs of strength, like a surge in consumer confidence and growing strength in manufacturing.
''There is no real cloud in the silver lining of this morning's jobs report,'' wrote Steven Blitz, chief economist of ITG Investment Research.
The big question was whether such improvement could be sustained, or even accelerate, as is necessary to significantly drive down the unemployment rate. Most projections call for slower economic growth in the first quarter of this year than the last quarter of 2011, and a second report on Friday further reduced expectations. The report, showing a higher-than-expected trade deficit, prompted firms like JPMorgan Chase and Macroeconomic Advisers to lower their growth forecasts for this quarter.
The focus, though, remained on more encouraging signs. Public sector job losses, which have been steep, have slowed. Job gains for December and January were stronger than previously reported, the Labor Department said, accounting for 61,000 more jobs than the department estimated last month, and the February report could also have understated the improvement.
Patrick O'Keefe, director of economic research at J. H. Cohn, an accounting and consulting firm, said the recent run of gains was approaching ''escape velocity.''
There were job gains across a broad swath of industries, including manufacturing, finance, professional services like law and accounting, hotels and restaurants, and mining. The construction industry lost jobs after two months of gains, and the retail sector shrank. For black men, the jobless rate increased, to 14.3 percent from 12.7 percent, while the biggest employment gains went to whites, black women and, overwhelmingly, college graduates.
President Obama said that more companies were bringing jobs back to the United States and that manufacturing was adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s.
Speaking from the floor of a new manufacturing plant in Virginia, President Obama said, ''Day by day, we're restoring this economy from crisis.''
In a campaign appearance in Jackson, Miss., Mitt Romney, a contender for the Republican presidential nomination, pointed out that there were still 24 million Americans who were unemployed or underemployed, working part time when they would like to have full-time jobs.
Republicans said that President Obama had not done enough to reduce burdens on businesses or to expand domestic energy production, pointing to his blocking of the Keystone pipeline. Virtually all the growth in the trade deficit was linked to higher oil prices, according to an analysis by Capital Economics, a research firm.
Gas prices have not yet risen enough to slow consumer spending, but Friday's report showed that wages are lagging behind inflation.
''This underscores the Federal Reserve's concerns about the economy,'' said Diane Swonk, the chief economist at Mesirow Financial. ''There's still a lot of slack; the spending power's not there.'' Ms. Swonk estimated that 10 to 20 percent of the job gains were because of an unseasonably warm winter, essentially borrowing from spring's normal uptick in activity.
But things are looking up for Martin Okekearu, 58, an engineer in Kansas City, Mo., who has had long dry spells in his eight-month search for work. In the last two weeks, he said, he has received two promising leads from manufacturing firms in the area. One found his resume on the local employment center's Web site. It had been posted there for six months.
Mr. Okekearu, who has a master's degree in engineering management, was relieved to find that either job would make use of his skills. ''My younger son says: 'Daddy, they talk about somebody educated -- you are one of them. They talk about somebody experienced -- you are one of them,' '' he said.
Others said it had become easier to find income, but only via temporary or freelance jobs.
''My feelings are mixed about the recovery,'' said Pam Sexton, 45, also of Kansas City, who was laid off by Sprint in 2009. ''So far, I've managed to find work, but a full-time, permanent job is somehow elusive to me.''
Temporary hiring, often a precursor to permanent hiring, increased by 45,000 jobs. ''Companies are more and more interested in converting people from temp to full time,'' said Tig Gilliam, chief executive of the Adecco Group North America, a staffing company. ''That's a really good indicator.''
Competition for highly skilled workers is on the rise, according to Applied Predictive Technologies, a technology company in Virginia that is planning to add 60 workers, mostly recent college graduates, to its staff of 150.
''The sense of nervousness and caution that people felt a couple of years ago has really dissipated,'' said Catherine Baker, senior vice president for marketing and administration. ''There's a real war for talent going on.''
The recovery has been here before, only to falter. Last February, March and April saw net gains of more than 200,000 jobs each month. But then the effects of high gas prices, the earthquake in Japan and the resurgence of the fiscal woes in Europe kicked in, slowing job growth to a crawl.
''Everyone got burned last year, from being elated over the better economic data only to have their hopes dashed come spring,'' said Ellen Zentner, an economist with Nomura Securities International. ''If we can get past April and these trends continue, I'll breathe easy.''
This year, though, the economy appears to be somewhat less vulnerable to shocks. There were 1.4 million more jobs in January than there were last April, and they were spread across more industries and more cities. Consumers have paid down some of their debt and begun to make large purchases, particularly cars.
There was also some evidence that job growth might be stronger than the labor report suggests. For one thing, upward revisions are common during a recovery, and have occurred in each of the six preceding months.
Another good sign, analysts said, was the strength of job growth reported in the department's household survey. The monthly employment report comes from two surveys -- one of businesses, from which the net job growth is calculated, and one of households, which generates the unemployment rate. But the household survey also measures job growth, including some types, like new companies, that the business survey does not capture well.
Household survey respondents indicated that 879,000 more people were working in February than in January. Though it is not unusual for the two surveys to differ, it is unusual for the growth in the household survey to be so much greater.
More people looking for work was also a good sign, said Betsey Stevenson, former chief economist for the Labor Department and now a visiting professor at Princeton University. She noted that among the unemployed, there were fewer people who had recently lost their jobs and more people who had entered or re-entered the work force, or who had quit their jobs, presumably to look for something better.
''You didn't want to quit your job a year and a half ago,'' she said. ''I take that as not just a sign that the labor market is improving, but that workers out there perceive that the labor market is improving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For eight months, Martin Okekearu, an engineer in Kansas City, Mo., has looked for work. He now has two promising leads. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: Signs of Encouragement in the Jobs Reports (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics
University of Michigan Survey of Consumer Confidence Sentiment)
The Labor Picture in February: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
UNEMPLOYMENT DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); ACCOUNTING (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



379 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Off Broadway Faces Perils Of Prosperity

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
The lamentations over the slow death of commercial Off Broadway theater have subsided, at least for a while. It's true that over the past decade the city has lost at least a half-dozen spaces once devoted to presenting new work unsuitable for Broadway, including the Variety Arts in the East Village, the Promenade Theater on the Upper West Side (now a Sephora) and the Century Center off Union Square. I suppose we can consider it a happy coincidence that none has become a Duane Reade. The result has sometimes been a stampede to Broadway by shows that by all rights should remain Off Broadway. Witness the recent quick flop of the musical ''Lysistrata Jones.''
At the same time, the established not-for-profit institutions that have long been the mainstays of the Off Broadway movement have not only survived but also thrived in a tough economic environment. Between full-scale renovations and building projects, most of the city's leading Off Broadway companies have been in the process of regeneration -- and fund-raising -- over the past half-dozen years or more, resulting in some major changes in the landscape. 
Manhattan Theater Club, one of the standard-bearers of Off Broadway since its founding in 1970, acquired its own Broadway location, formerly the Biltmore and now the Samuel J. Friedman Theater. The Second Stage Theater is now housed in a former bank sleekly redesigned by Rem Koolhaas, and it has signed an agreement to set up its own foothold on Broadway, the Helen Hayes Theater. Fund-raising is under way.
Theater for a New Audience, a vital resource for small-scale but often excellent classical theater, broke ground on its $47.5 million theater complex near the Brooklyn Academy of Music in June. Designed by another noted architect, Hugh Hardy, the new complex will feature a 299-seat main stage.
This spring one of the city's most plush not-for-profit theaters, Lincoln Center Theater, will open a second Off Broadway space in a new structure plopped right on top of the Vivian Beaumont Theater. And the venerable Public Theater is in the process of giving itself a full-scale makeover.
Perhaps most spectacular of all is the opening this spring of the $66 million Pershing Square Signature Center, the inviting new home of the Signature Theater Company, designed by yet another A-list architectural name, Frank Gehry. As those who have had a chance to visit by now know, the Signature Center is a major upgrade from the Signature's functional but modest previous home down the street. It has three spaces, with seating capacities ranging from just under 200 to just under 300.
You can enter the second floor lobby and cafe area by elevators or by an impressive twisting wooden staircase. Once there, you can have coffee or a cocktail after collecting your tickets. The light-filled space reminds me of the National Theater in London in the way it opens up theatergoing as a fluid social experience. With three shows going up nightly at the moment, there is an inviting sense of hubbub just before curtain time.
At the performance of ''The Lady From Dubuque'' that I saw on Saturday night, I happened to run into friends who were coming to see ''Blood Knot''; when I went to see ''Blood Knot'' a few weeks ago, I had a chance to say hello to Edward Albee. (A small complaint: With so much thought having gone into the creation of the space -- these days all renovations of performance spaces expand the bathroom facilities -- it was a bit dismaying that my knees were grinding into the back of the seat in front of me.)
All this impressive building does bring with it potential pitfalls, however. Since moving to Broadway, Manhattan Theater Club has sometimes been less judicious in its selection of plays for its Off Broadway space at City Center. The first two plays it presented there this season -- Zoe Kazan's ''We Live Here'' and Molly Smith Metzler's ''Close Up Space'' -- were outright duds.
Although the Public Theater has revived its dedication to Shakespeare in recent seasons, this year the company's new play slate is on the thin side, with the season dominated by double engagements of the solo show ''The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs'' and the return of ''Gatz.''
The danger is that these companies, with elaborate new theaters to fill, will lose sight of their missions; the New York theater economy is already unhealthily Broadwaycentric, and the idea that bigger is necessarily better is a dangerous one. The development and creation of innovative new work, no matter how great its potential for popular appeal, is the bedrock of the Off Broadway mission, and with new theaters requiring more overhead to keep up, the impulse to go for the safe choice, the name playwright, may be even greater.
I also worry that this mania for building new lavish Off Broadway spaces will spread indiscriminately. There is something to be said for sitting still and maintaining a historic home, after all. I would be dismayed to hear that New York Theater Workshop, for instance, was embarking on a fund-raising drive to build a new theater.
The company's current home on East Fourth Street has its logistical inconveniences -- there's no lobby to speak of, and the bathrooms are puny -- but it remains one of the city's most appealing theaters, partly because it has the kind of scruffy, repurposed-but-ungentrified feeling that new theater spaces inevitably lack. There's nothing antiseptic about New York Theater Workshop's auditorium, and what it lacks in all modern conveniences, it more than makes up for in funky, authentic East Village charm.
And an element in the appeal of the grander Broadway theaters, after all, is the history of previous performances that you feel has seeped into the spaces themselves. There's no reason the same shouldn't hold true for Off Broadway theaters. New York Theater Workshop has long been one of the city's more adventurous not-for-profit houses, and its raw-looking -- but at the same time majestic -- auditorium has hosted some of the best new work the city has seen during its tenure, from the musical ''Rent'' to new plays by Caryl Churchill and the experimental revivals of the Belgian director Ivo van Hove. It's been a slightly funky place where you expect to see adventurously funky theater, and I hope it stays that way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theater inside the new Pershing Square Signature Center complex. Above, the concession at the New York Theater Workshop in the East Village. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: BROADWAY COS INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3544 SPECIAL DIES & TOOLS, DIE SETS, JIGS & FIXTURES & INDUSTRIAL MOLDS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



380 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Renew Calls For Reforms In Bahrain

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain (Reuters) -- Tens of thousands of Bahrainis turned out Friday for demonstrations to demand democratic reforms, the largest protest against the government in a year of unrest.
The demonstrators began marching along a highway near Manama, the capital, in response to a call from a leading Shiite cleric, Sheik Isa Qassim, who urged people to renew their calls for greater democracy. A Web camera on a blog showed protesters carrying banners denouncing ''dictatorship'' and demanding the release of detainees.
''We are here for the sake of our just demands that we cannot make concessions over, and we stick with them because we have sacrificed for them,'' Sheik Qassim said in his weekly sermon in the village of Diraz before the march. 
He and other Shiite clerics led the protesters.
''It is the biggest demonstration in the past year,'' said a Reuters photographer after protesters filled the main Budaiya highway in Diraz and Saar, west of Manama. ''I would say it could be over 100,000.''
Shiites, who make up a majority of the population, complain about political and economic marginalization by the Sunni monarchy, an accusation the government denies.
Sheik Qassim is close to the biggest opposition party, Wefaq, which jostles for position alongside more hard-line groups that reject the monarchy. Activists say Wefaq wants to show that it still dominates the opposition, which includes secular groups.
The government, pressed by its Western allies to allow peaceful expression of dissent, has tolerated more opposition protests in recent months.
Shiites were in the forefront of the protest movement that erupted in February 2011 after uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia. But a month later, the ruling Khalifa family crushed the protests, imposing martial law and bringing in troops from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to help restore order. The government accused Shiite-dominated Iran of fomenting the unrest.
On Friday, hundreds of protesters walked down the main highway into Manama to try to return to a traffic intersection, known as the Pearl Roundabout, which had been the focal point of last year's pro-democracy uprising.
Clashes continued in the area for over an hour, with activists saying that riot police officers had fired tear gas, and the Interior Ministry saying that protesters had thrown stones. Activists also reported later clashes with the police in the capital's Makharqa district, and in the village of Eker, southeast of Manama.
Elsewhere, though, the march wound down peaceably as most protesters headed home.
A statement from the royal court praised the march and a small rival rally of several hundred government loyalists as ''a source of pride for Bahrainis as a model of correct democratic behavior,'' the state news agency BNA reported.
The United States' Fifth Fleet is based in Bahrain, which used to be a major tourism and banking center, but popular unrest has slowed the economy.
Pro-government Sunni groups have organized smaller counterdemonstrations, warning the authorities not to enter into a dialogue on reforms that could give the elected Parliament legislative authority and the power to form governments.
Those groups look to Saudi Arabia, a Sunni stronghold, as a critical ally and demonize the opposition as loyal to Iran, a charge opposition parties deny. Analysts say the Saudi government does not want Bahrain to agree to reforms that could increase the power and influence of Shiites.
Jamal Fakhro, deputy leader of the appointed house of Parliament, said recent contacts between the royal court and opposition parties eliminated the need for the march.
''I don't think we need any pressure to start something already started,'' Mr. Fakhro said. ''If you are talking to the government, why go to the street again and show muscles? You either accept dialogue or you go to the streets.''
Activists say at least 27 people have been killed in the unrest since June, many from the effects of tear gas. The government disputes the causes of death.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two protesters in a large antigovernment demonstration paused behind scant cover on Friday as riot police officers blocked marchers in Manama, Bahrain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAMAD I MOHAMMED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (78%); RIOTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (98%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



381 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: What's Up? New Orders in the U.S., but Not in Most of Europe

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
BUSINESSES in the United States say that the level of new orders is continuing to rise, even as it weakens in most European countries.
Each month manufacturers in 23 countries around the world are asked if the level of new orders is rising or falling relative to the previous month. A similar question is posed to service companies in 14 of those countries. Over the last three months, the United States and India have been the countries with the strongest results, with the United States reporting slightly stronger results in services and the Indians doing a little better in manufacturing. 
But Germany, which had rising levels of new orders in 2010, even as some other European countries faltered, fell into negative territory in mid-2011 and has stayed there.
The surveys, pioneered in the United States by the Institute for Supply Management and conducted by Markit in many other countries, are normally reported with 50 as the break-even level, a number that indicates that half the companies that see a change in their orders are showing gains. The farther above 50 the index goes, the greater the proportion of companies reporting rising orders.
In the accompanying charts, the numbers are shifted so that zero is the break-even level. Any figure over zero shows expansion, while numbers below indicate new orders are slipping. There are separate lines for manufacturing and service companies in each country shown other than Greece, where service companies are not surveyed.
The measures reflect how widespread gains are, not necessarily how large the gains may be. A company where orders are up only a little would be counted the same as one whose rate of new business was soaring.
Because there is more international trade in manufactured goods than in services, the manufacturing score in a country is likely to reflect changes in that country's competitive position as well as the level of demand in it and in its trading partners. The service score is more likely to reflect the strength of the domestic economy.
Within Europe, said Rob Dobson, a senior economist at Markit, ''Germany and France were really holding up the euro zone averages'' until recently. ''They are now much weaker than they were one year ago.''
Italy and Spain showed particular weakness in late 2011, with manufacturers suffering but service companies doing even worse. Ireland, on the other hand, has recovered enough so that new business orders, after falling in late 2011, are again growing at least a little.
The worst performance, unsurprisingly, is in Greece, where Europe has decreed cuts in spending and income that have contributed to a continuing decline in the economy. Declines in new orders are more widespread among Greek manufacturers than they were during the financial crisis.
The surveys measure other indications of business activity not shown in the charts, including whether production is rising or falling and whether jobs are being added or cut. Manufacturers in the United States are now also more likely than those in most countries to say they are increasing production and adding employees.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Relative Strength in U.S. Business Orders: According to a survey of manufacturers and service companies, United States companies are reporting stronger order flows than those in most other countries, while Germany is no longer reporting strong numbers, and orders are weakening sharply in some other members of the euro zone.
 Monthly survey of new orders: January 2010 to February 2012 (Source: Markit) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EURO ZONE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); GREECE (88%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



382 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
CRITICS SAY JAPAN IGNORED WARNINGS OF DISASTER
Japan's nuclear regulators and the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant's operator have said that last year's earthquake and tsunami were far larger than anything that scientists had predicted. But some insiders are saying warnings of the possibility of a larger-than-expected tsunami were ignored. PAGE A4
FAILED RAID ANGERS ITALY 
The failed attempt to rescue a Briton and an Italian who had been held hostage for months by an Islamist militant group in Nigeria set off diplomatic dispute after Italian leaders complained that they had beenkept in the dark about the raid. PAGE A4
PARTY CHIEF ADMITS FAILURE
The embattled Communist Party chief of Chongqing championed his success in running the central Chinese metropolis, even as he admitted failing to supervise a trusted aide who recently fled to an American consulate, causing a national sensation. PAGE A6
PROTEST MOVEMENT IN RUSSIA
Though a fourth major rally is planned for Saturday, organizers of Moscow's three-month-old opposition movement expect a smaller turnout and they are not, for the moment, planning a fifth. Since Vladimir V. Putin's overwhelming win in presidential elections last week, the movement has lost steam. PAGE A6
SYRIA RESISTS U.N. AID
The top United Nations relief official said she had witnessed horrific destruction during her two-day visit in Syria and had encountered resistance by the government to accept her emergency aid proposal, which would give United Nations relief workers unrestricted access to stricken areas. PAGE A9
DEMONSTRATIONS IN BAHRAIN
Tens of thousands of Bahrainis turned out for demonstrations to demand democratic reforms, the largest protest against the government in a year of unrest. PAGE A9
NATIONAL
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR RESIGNS IN SOUTH CAROLINA
The lieutenant governor of South Carolina, Ken Ard, resigned and pleaded guilty to criminal charges of spending campaign funds on personal expenses and fabricating donations. In a statement, Mr. Ard, 48, a Republican, admitted wrongdoing and apologized. PAGE A10
A YOUTUBE TEACHING TOOL
Schools across the country commonly block access to YouTube, but as Google, YouTube's parent company, fine-tunes a portal that lets schools limit students' access to selected content, the video-sharing Web site is gaining popularity among educators. PAGE A14
MARINES' NEW CAMPAIGN
The Marine Corps's new marketing campaign, ''Toward the Sound of Chaos,'' will use social media, television commercials and print ads to underscore the idea that while no one knows where the next global hot spot will be, the Marines are ready to charge there. PAGE A14
INSURANCE EXCHANGE RULES
The Obama administration is issuing standards for health insurance exchanges, the markets where consumers and small businesses will be able to buy coverage from competing private plans. PAGE A11
NEW YORK
N.Y.U. EXPANSION PROPOSAL ANGERS SOME NEIGHBORS
Greenwich Village's local community board recommended unanimously last month that the City Council reject New York University's plan to erect four buildings that would house dormitories, classrooms, athletic and performance spaces, and a hotel. PAGE A15
OBITUARIES
HARRY WENDELSTEDT, 73
An umpire in five World Series, Harry Wendelstedt had a 33-year major league career and taught hundreds of would-be professional umpires at his Florida school. PAGE D8
BUSINESS
DEBT INSURANCE IN GREECE MUST PAY OUT, RULING SAYS
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association has ruled that Greece's debt restructuring will prompt payouts on credit-default swaps tied to the country's government bonds, ending months of speculation. PAGE B1
DEBATE OVER AUTO BAILOUT
Republican presidential candidates say Americans would be better off if General Motors and Chrysler had gone bankrupt, but the clock can not be turned back to compare the results with today's American auto industry, which is healthier than it's been in many years. Common Sense, James B. Stewart. PAGE B1
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S PAY
Barclays said that it had awarded its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., $10.3 million in compensation for last year, a reduction in pay as profit at the British bank slipped. PAGE B3
CHINA'S INFLATION EASES
The Chinese government announced a significant drop in inflation, which gives leaders more leeway in managing the economy and continuing with a policy of loosening lending or cutting interest rates. PAGE B3
SPORTS
A HOCKEY TRAILBLAZER WHO MISSED HIS CHANCE
Many say Herb Carnegie, who died in a Toronto Hospital at 92, should have been the Jackie Robinson of the N.H.L. The author Cecil Harris wrote that Carnegie would be remembered as ''the best black player never to reach the N.H.L.'' PAGE D1
BLACKJACK AND MATH
Colin Jones has toiled in casinos across the country in an effort to beat the house with math. He has worked to master the art of card counting, in which players try to gain an advantage over a blackjack dealer by keeping track of all the cards seen. Now he is selling his tactics to others. PAGE D3
ARTS
A LOVE STORY NATURALLY
WITHOUT MICROPHONES
The Dicapo Opera Theater's delightful production of ''The Most Happy Fella,'' Frank Loesser's tender, tough and melodically soaring 1956 work, boasts something no musical currently on Broadway can offer: natural sound. Review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE C1
THE ADVENTURE ENDS
With the release of Mass Effect 3, BioWare, the developer of this video game franchise, has delivered a compelling conclusion to a galaxy-spanning adventure that belongs in the sci-fi pantheon. Mass Effect 3 draws players into a universe even George Lucas could appreciate. Review by Seth Schiesel. PAGE C1
OP-ED
Charles M. Blow PAGE A17
Joe Nocera PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (65%); PARENT COMPANIES (65%); GUILTY PLEAS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (61%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



383 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Better Numbers

 BODY:
The job market is showing slow and steady improvement. In February, 227,000 jobs were added. It was the 24th straight month of private-sector job gains, and the third month in a row of gains well above 200,000, the best three-month stretch in nearly two years. 
The jobless rate is still 8.3 percent and, at today's slow pace of improvement, it will still take nearly five years before the economy returns to a prerecession jobless rate of 5 percent. By then, Americans will have endured nine years of employment weakness, which for millions will translate into permanently lost opportunities for wage growth and irreversibly diminished living standards.
Washington needs to do more to help. Instead, Congress seems poised to do less.
The federal highway bill, a prodigious job creator, is stalled in the House. Congressional Republicans have also consistently rejected calls for more aid to states, despite the 485,000 jobs lost by public employees over the past two years, and 6,000 layoffs in February alone. Now, some House Republicans are gearing up to demand even deeper budget cuts. Another round of budget fights could hobble business and consumer confidence and more cuts would hobble demand.
President Obama has continued to push job-creation efforts. On Friday he announced plans for a $1 billion network of regional manufacturing hubs. It is a worthy idea, but one that will require Congressional cooperation. He also said that the administration would use $45 million from existing resources at the National Science Foundation and other federal agencies to support investments in advanced manufacturing equipment and research. That does not need Congress's approval, but moving beyond the pilot stage would.
Years into a weak labor market, and with years to go before full recovery, the scars are becoming all too apparent. Recent data from the Economic Policy Institute shows that the inflation-adjusted hourly wage of college-educated men aged 23 to 29 dropped 5.2 percent from 2007 to 2011, and for female college graduates of the same age, 4.4 percent. Joblessness and wage declines are also pronounced for those with only a high school education. For those men aged 19 to 25, wages fell 8 percent from 2007 to 2011. For those young women, the decline was 3.1 percent.
The latest job growth numbers are encouraging. But there is a very deep hole and a lot more climbing to do.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (69%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



384 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Rules for When the Chicks Return to the Nest

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
MY teenage sons are still in high school and middle school and, as is the norm, live at home. So perhaps it's a little early for me to be writing about what rules to lay down if and when they move back after college.
But, hey, maybe it's never too soon to map out a response. And I probably can count on at least one of my sons returning after college, if a new book, ''The Accordion Family'' (Beacon Press), is right. The book, by Katherine S. Newman, a sociologist and dean at Johns Hopkins University, examines how the tough economic climate has limited the job prospects of many young adults and forced them to move back in with their parents.
The author found that a higher proportion of adult children now live with their parents than at any other time since the 1950s.
I'm not going to go into whether this is a good or bad thing for our society and future generations. Nor am I going to get bogged down in cultural issues. I realize and respect that in some countries, it's perfectly acceptable -- and expected -- to stay in the parental home until marriage. 
Rather, this column is for those who assume that their returning children are now, nominally, grown up, are home temporarily, and should live under rules that differ from when they left the nest as teenagers.
Christina Newberry, who runs the Web site adultchildrenlivingathome.com and is author of the self-published ''The Hands-On Guide to Surviving Adult Children Living at Home'' (2007), said the first step when an adult child was thinking of returning home was to have a conversation laying out everyone's expectations and then to draw up a contract.
Or if that sounds too legal, then call it a living together document.
It's too easy, after all, to have conversations, assume you all agree and then, when conflict arises, ''misinterpret'' what was said.
''You may not both be on the same page,'' Ms. Newberry said. ''The adult child may be expecting the best of both worlds -- the same freedom as when he was living away, but the perks of having Mom doing the laundry. If there are no rules, it's chaotic.''
Eileen and Jon Gallo, consultants living in Los Angeles who specialize in family and money issues, urged parents to have this conversation before their offspring moved back home. Once your 20-something is ensconced in her childhood bedroom, it's harder to set up a new structure that she may not be expecting, Mr. Gallo said.
He laid out four major overarching points that parents and children needed to discuss before the young adult moved back in:
What is your role in the house? Nonpaying guest or member of the family? What chores are you going to do? Grocery shopping? Cooking?
What are you going to do to earn money in the short term if you can't get a job in your desired career? Flip hamburgers? Walk dogs?
What are you doing to pursue your desired career goals? Vocational training? Internships? Career counseling?
When are you going to leave? It's good to set a time limit -- three months, six months, a year, Mr. Gallo said. It can always be renegotiated.
The idea, Ms. Gallo said, is ''to provide a temporary security blanket with some structure.''
One of the major issues that comes up is whether returning children should pay for the privilege of living in their parents' home.
''I would encourage parents to charge rent, or at least a token amount -- not necessarily the market rate -- in recognition that the adult child is adding to the household expenses,'' Ms. Newberry said. ''It's good for the adult child's self-esteem to know he's not a moocher, and that he gets in the habit of paying a monthly amount.''
One suggestion from experts is that even if you don't need your child's money, you charge her a reasonable amount depending on how much money she is earning, and put it in a savings account. The ''rent'' can then be given back to offset living expenses once she moves out.
Jacqueline Jolie, who lives in Alberta, Canada, and writes the blog singlemomrichmom.com, discussed the issue two years ago when her 22-year-old son moved back in.
''I've come to wonder if I'm hurting him rather than helping him not to expect him to pay for any of our household expenses,'' she wrote.
Ms. Jolie updated me since she wrote that column. Her son is still living at home, is working hard and paying her $450 a month in rent. And she's pleased with the situation.
''All I ever wanted him to have was goals,'' she said.
But Ms. Jolie said she believed there were times when young adults shouldn't be asked to pay rent. These include if they're going to school full time; saving to buy a house or another major investment; have fallen on hard times, like an unexpected job loss (not just quitting a job because it wasn't fun); or are helping a lot around the house.
Ms. Newberry added her own caveat: ''If they have no money, they should work it out through manual labor -- not just doing the dishes but painting the house or cleaning the gutters.''
One young adult who has moved back home, Rachel Unger, said she graduated from college in 2010 and was living at home rent-free while she saved to go to graduate school. Her 25-year-old sister has also moved back in.
But she said she handled most of her own bills, including car insurance, cellphone and the dentist.
''The rules in my house remain, 'Clean up after yourself, and do what's asked of you to help out when you can,' '' she said in an e-mail. ''I'm also responsible for occasionally cooking dinner.''
Ms. Unger, who is 24 and lives in Montclair, N.J., said she believed the rules were fair -- even the one that prohibits her boyfriend from sleeping over in her room, although he can stay in a separate room.
''It would be nice to not have boyfriend rules, but I understand that it could be uncomfortable'' for my parents, she said.
The boyfriend/girlfriend issue can cause almost as much angst as the rent discussion, Ms. Newberry said. One friend of mine whose daughter briefly returned home after college subscribed to the ''don't ask, don't tell'' motto when it came to the boyfriend spending the night.
But for those parents whose houses aren't large enough to feign ignorance, or who simply want to prevent such activity, Ms. Newberry said it's their right.
''It's completely reasonable to say a partner can't stay over,'' she said. ''But it's not reasonable to say to the adult children that they can't stay over at a boyfriend's or girlfriend's house. It's the difference between making the rules inside or outside the house.''
This does bring up the issue of curfew. The question is not so much whether 21-year-olds should have to return home by midnight -- when in college they might have been partying until the wee hours -- but whether a parent should have to lie in bed, sleepless, waiting to hear the front door slam.
''A conversation needs to happen about curfew,'' Ms. Newberry said. Perhaps, she said, parents and child can agree upon a general time, and if that slips, the child can text or e-mail (to avoid disturbing the whole house) to say, ''I'll be home around 2 a.m.''
For those families who can afford it, there are other ways to help children who have graduated from college but can't quite make it financially on their own. Subsidize their independent living for a while.
This might not suit everyone, but as my friend Naomi said, ''In the long run, it saves on family therapy.''
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rachel Unger, 24, graduated from college in 2010 and returned to the family home in Montclair, N.J. She is saving to go to graduate school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



385 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Surged To 3-Year High in January

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The United States trade deficit surged in January to the widest imbalance in more than three years after imports grew faster than exports.
Rising oil prices helped drive imports to a record high, as did stronger demand for foreign-made cars, computers and food products. 
And exports to Europe fell, a sign that the region's debt crisis could temporarily weaken growth in the United States just as the job market was strengthening.
The January trade deficit widened to $52.6 billion, the Commerce Department reported Friday. That is an increase from a revised $50.4 billion in December and the biggest gap since October 2008.
Imports rose 2.1 percent to a record $233.4 billion. Exports were up a smaller 1.4 percent to $180.8 billion. Exports to Europe fell 7.5 percent.
''There is little good news in January's trade figures,'' said Paul Dales, senior United States economist at Capital Economics.
He said much of the increase was tied to higher oil prices, which drove oil imports up 3.3 percent. The wider deficit, he said, was likely to slow growth in the January-March quarter to an annual rate of 1 percent.
Economic growth should improve later in the year, he said, because a surge in hiring could increase consumer spending.
A separate Commerce Department report showed that wholesale companies kept building their stockpiles in January. Sales, however, dipped for the first time since May.
Business restocking was a major driver of economic growth at the end of last year. Economists say the restocking is most likely to slow in the first quarter, weakening growth.
A wider trade deficit weighs on growth because it means Americans are spending more on foreign-made goods than overseas consumers are spending on American-made goods.
Economists predict the trade deficit this year will widen from last year's $560 billion imbalance. A major reason is that they expect companies to sell fewer goods in Europe, which represents about 20 percent of America's export market.
Imports of autos and auto parts rose 10.4 percent to an all-time high of $25.3 billion.
Imports of capital goods, such as computers and industrial machinery, also hit a record at $44.7 billion. And imports of food products hit a record high of $9.6 billion. Demand for foreign-produced fish, meat, bakery products and wine and beer all rose.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The port of Miami. Rising oil prices, demand for foreign goods and a drop in exports to Europe pushed the trade deficit higher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); STATISTICS (75%); WHOLESALERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BEER & ALE (65%); EMPLOYMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



386 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Closing the Gap Between Rich and Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Charles Murray's observations on America's disunity (''Narrowing the New Class Divide,'' Op-Ed, March 8) shouldn't be ignored just because of his conservative point of view. In fact, his ideas aren't really so different from those of many liberals like Robert Putnam, the author of ''Bowling Alone'': there is less of a unified sense of community in this country today than ever before.
In a way, that's actually good. The withering away of the community's power to enforce conformism (Alexis de Tocqueville's ''tyranny of the majority'') gives us all more personal freedom. But at the same time, we are biologically programmed to see those like ourselves as allies and those different from ourselves as competitors, if not enemies. The end of conformism has left us uncomfortable with our social environment, with our fellow citizens. 
To reduce the widening divide between haves and have-nots, we need to find a new way of building a community, and to do that we'll have to accept the idea that a community isn't a community until all its members are included. We have to create good jobs, here at home, for everyone who wants to work.
Mr. Murray worries that any solution for our disunity ''remotely practicable right now would not do much good.'' Shouldn't we at least make an effort to reduce the economic basis of that disunity by ending our deliberate policies of importing poverty (in the form of unskilled workers) and exporting jobs?
DAVID RAINES Lunenburg, Mass., March 8, 2012
To the Editor:
Charles Murray suggests several ways to narrow the new class divide, including a national service program, banning unpaid internships and dropping the SAT in college admissions decisions.
Mr. Murray says the solution that he hears proposed most often is the national service program. Maybe that passes for a solution at the American Enterprise Institute, where he is a scholar, but it barely makes an appearance on the lists of anyone I know. What I hear most often is that we should tax the rich at the high rates at which they were taxed back when the middle class was strong. Seems like a no-brainer to me.
I just want a job that provides health insurance and pays over $30,000. Mr. Murray's proposals come across as incredibly tone deaf to people like me.
DANIEL NEWSOME New York, March 8, 2012
To the Editor:
Charles Murray's suggestions are meritorious on other grounds, but they will not likely narrow the class divide. As Alexis de Tocqueville, who remains as keen an observer of the United States as I know, said, ''Grant me 30 years of equal division of inheritances and a free press, and I will provide you with a republic.''
The way to reverse the alarming class divide is to impose the stiff inheritance tax envisaged by the founding fathers to prevent the emergence of the kind of European ruling class they fled. Some further restriction on the transfer of personal wealth is now required as a matter of national security.
PETER M. ROSS New York, March 8, 2012
To the Editor:
Charles Murray proposes that getting rid of unpaid internships and SAT tests would help less advantaged kids. That is certainly true of the grossly exploitive system of internships that has grown up; only wealthy families can afford them. But get rid of the SATs?
The SATs protect kids from teachers biased against kids from the wrong side of the tracks. In many cases, it's the only thing those kids have going for them.
LARRY DUDLEY Glens Falls, N.Y., March 8, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA WAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WRITERS (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (62%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



387 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Tax Time: Can't Pay?

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Say you've filled out your tax return, and discovered some bad news: you owe money. But suppose you can't afford to pay the bill.
What should you do?
Some people may try to ignore the problem and hope that the Internal Revenue Service doesn't notice. That is rarely a good idea, said Gregg Wind, a certified public accountant in Los Angeles. The I.R.S. isn't going away, and neither is your bill -- and it will only get worse if you ignore it, since the I.R.S. will add penalty fees and interest to what you owe.
This year, the I.R.S. is giving a break to those who were jobless. If you were unemployed for at least 30 straight days in 2011 (or in 2012, up to the the tax filing deadline on April 17), you can request a six-month extension to pay this year's tax bill without being charged a late-payment penalty (although you'll still be charged interest, currently 3 percent on an annual basis). To take advantage of the grace period and avoid paying your taxes until Oct. 15, you must file Form 1127. 
If you don't qualify for the unemployment extension, there are still other options, like offering to pay the bill over time. ''The I.R.S. is pretty agreeable to things like installment agreements,'' Mr. Wind said. The agency can have the funds automatically withdrawn from your bank account, or you can pay through a payroll deduction. There is a fee to set up the installment plan, which varies depending on your income and on the method of payment.
Meanwhile, the I.R.S. recently announced changes to make it easier for people to catch up on back taxes through installment plans, without submitting extra paperwork. Now, you don't have to submit extra documentation unless you owe more than $50,000, up from $25,000 previously.
If you think installments won't help -- you simply won't have the money to pay the bill in the foreseeable future -- you can try what's called an ''offer in compromise,'' or a negotiated settlement. To do this, you make an offer to pay a lesser amount by submitting a proposal on Form 656. If you owe, say, $5,000, Mr. Wind said, you can ask the I.R.S.: '' Will you take $1,000?''
There's no guarantee that the I.R.S. will accept your offer, and there are lots of forms, financial statements and other paperwork to file, so the I.R.S. can evaluate whether your offer is reasonable. There's also a $150 fee to apply.
If you think you'll have the money relatively soon, but you're just short on cash at tax time, you may want to pay what you can spare when you file the return, and wait for the I.R.S. to bill you for the rest, suggests the the accounting group, the California Society of CPAs. That will show good will on your part, and reduce penalties and interest, too. Then, if you have enough cash to pay the balance when the I.R.S. bills you -- typically, in about 45 days -- you can pay it at that time. This approach, however, adds interest and penalties, which increases the amount you owe.
Have you ever sought an installment agreement, or an offer in compromise, to pay your taxes?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



388 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: California's Depression

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was delighted to read Paul Krugman's March 5 column, because he identified a problem, the ''states of depression'' at the state and local levels, that has received too little attention. 
Living in California, I have had the sad opportunity of watching as a minority of Republicans in this deep blue state have been able to put a stranglehold on the state's finances by a rigid adherence to the Grover Norquist anti-tax pledge, thanks to a required supermajority for tax measures.
With the state in fiscal free fall, the effect has been felt at every level of government, not only because these levels have their own problems but because the state can no longer offer other jurisdictions the subsidies that it had been able to provide in the past.
A good example of the problem in the no-longer Golden State is the fate of the redevelopment process, which the state ended in 2011, thereby striking a death blow to some 400 redevelopment agencies statewide. By means of this process and under state law, cities had been able to renew infrastructure and promote economic development.
Now all bets are off about how cities will be able to proceed in the future. Projects that had provided a great deal of employment will either be cut back or terminated altogether. This is not the royal road to recovery.
GLENNA MATTHEWS Laguna Beach, Calif., March 5, 2012
The writer is the author of ''Silicon Valley, Women and the California Dream.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



389 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Casinos End Train Service After 3 Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
ATLANTIC CITY (AP) -- An express train service that whisked gamblers here to and from New York City for the past three years is ending for good, after it consistently failed to make a profit. 
Katie Dougherty, a spokeswoman for Caesars Atlantic City, one of the casinos that sponsored the train service, said Friday that the main reason for discontinuing it was difficulty in scheduling it for peak times along the congested New York-to-Philadelphia route.
''We learned a lot about trains over the last three years,'' Ms. Dougherty said. ''It was an issue of tunnel time and track time and being able to provide a convenient schedule for riders. It just didn't work out.''
The service was started in February 2009 by three casinos -- Harrah's Resort Atlantic City and the Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa are the others -- to lure New Yorkers who did not want to ride a bus or sit in traffic on the Garden State Parkway for three hours.
Joe Lupo, the Borgata's senior vice president, said the casino had been ''very hopeful and excited'' about the prospect of attracting more New Yorkers with the train.
''Our partnership with Caesars to provide a first-class experience on the train proved to move the needle, especially during peak summer weekends and the more popular-timed runs that were near full capacity,'' he said. ''However, the unfortunate timing of the recession, combined with the inability to have a consistent schedule midweek, was simply too difficult to overcome.''
The three casinos invested $19 million to get the service started. The Casino Reinvestment Development Authority pumped $2 million into it the first year to help cover the $5.9 million in loses. Ms. Dougherty would not say what the train's total losses or ridership numbers were during the past three years.
The service was conceived in 2005 when Atlantic City's casinos still could count on steadily increasing revenues. But it struggled in a landscape in which increasing competition from neighboring states and the overall economic downturn sent casino revenues plummeting. Atlantic City's casino revenues fell to $3.3 billion last year, from $5.2 billion in 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An express train was meant to lure New Yorkers who wanted to gamble but did not want to drive or take a bus to Atlantic City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (92%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%)

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



390 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: A Keeper of a Vast Garden of Art in the Hills of Brazil

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Lis Horta Moriconi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BRUMADINHO, Brazil
NO wonder they call Bernardo Paz the ''Emperor of Inhotim.''
About 1,000 employees, including curators, botanists and concrete pourers, swarm around Inhotim, his contemporary-art complex in the hills of southeast Brazil. Globetrotting art pilgrims absorb stunning works like Doug Aitken's ''Sonic Pavilion,'' which uses high-sensitivity microphones placed in a 633-foot hole to deliver the bass murmur of Earth's inner depths.
A whiff of megalomania seems to emanate from Inhotim's eucalyptus forests, where Mr. Paz has perched more than 500 works by foreign and Brazilian artists. His botanical garden contains more than 1,400 species of palm trees. He glows when speaking of Inhotim's rare and otherworldly plants, like the titun arum from Sumatra, called the ''corpse flower'' because of its hideous stench.
Mr. Paz, a lanky, chain-smoking, 61-year-old mining magnate, speaks in barely audible whispers. He married his sixth wife in October. He has white hair down to his shoulders and pale blue eyes, giving him an appearance reminiscent of the gaunt, debauched Brazilian rancher played by Klaus Kinski in Werner Herzog's 1987 film, ''Cobra Verde.'' 
''This is a project to last 1,000 years,'' Mr. Paz said of Inhotim during a rare interview, a Dunhill cigarette dangling from his lips.
It is hard to say what people might make of Inhotim (pronounced in-yo-TCHEEM) centuries from now. Some masterpieces from Brazil's booms still survive as testament to past extravagance, like the celebrated opera house built at the height of the rubber boom at the end of the 19th century in Manaus, the largest city in the Amazon.
Elsewhere in Latin America, majestic private contemporary-art collections have also been made accessible to the public, like Eugenio Lopez's Coleccion Jumex in Mexico City. And much farther afield, in an archipelago in Japan's Seto Inland Sea, the Benesse Art Site similarly blends cutting-edge architecture with contemporary art.
But none of these places have the hot-climate exuberance of Inhotim, situated in mining-scarred hills far from Brazil's collecting scenes in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Art historians and curators often come away marveling at the sheer scale and chaotic vision that Mr. Paz has created at Inhotim.
''The amount of space given to single artist projects is unparalleled, as is the way visitors travel from building to building, refreshing their senses, being in nature,'' said Beverly Adams, an authority on Latin American art who curates the private Diane and Bruce Halle Collection in Scottsdale, Ariz.
Overwhelming the cognoscenti still seems to thrill Mr. Paz, a high school dropout whose first work experience involved pumping gas at filling stations owned by his father. He went on to work at Belo Horizonte's stock exchange, which he said he loathed, before going into mining for iron ore and cobbling together a privately held business empire that finances Inhotim's operations.
Some works in Inhotim seem to question, if not actually insult, the concept of profiting from mining the Earth's treasures.
For instance, an installation by the American artist Matthew Barney within geodesic domes includes a scene of unmistakable environmental violation: a huge mud-caked tractor clutching a tree and its roots. To arrive at this creation, visitors trek through mineral-bearing hills, largely cleared, of Mata Atlantica, the forest that once covered the region.
Inhotim received nearly 250,000 visitors in 2011, and it expects well more this year. But Mr. Paz, who says his companies provide Inhotim with about $60 million to $70 million for operations each year, sees no need to stop there.
In order to make Inhotim self-sustaining, he said he was planning to build no fewer than 10 new hotels here for visitors, an amphitheater for 15,000 people, even a complex of ''lofts'' for those who want to live amid the collection. He said Inhotim, which sprawls over nearly 5,000 acres, has room for at least 2,000 more works of art.
Inhotim's growth over the past decade has provided a jolt to the surrounding economy, with many of the adult residents of villages nearby employed as laborers by Inhotim, making them dependent on Mr. Paz's vision of assembling a ''Disneyland'' for contemporary art in the state of Minas Gerais.
''Before Inhotim, our men worked in the mines or moved to Sao Paulo to make money,'' said Profira de Souza, 74, a resident of the village of Marinhos whose son and grandson work at Inhotim. ''God lowered Bernardo Paz down to us, and I pray he doesn't take him back too soon.''
Still, Mr. Paz insisted he was no emperor. He called himself an ''isolated person'' who lacks real friends, opting to live amid hundreds of artworks, including a pavilion he built for one of his ex-wives, the Brazilian artist Adriana Varejao.
Seated in one of Inhotim's restaurants one sweltering day in February, he proceeded to quickly consume three vodka cocktails, murmuring about the machinations of bankers and the global financial crisis as he puffed on his Dunhills.
''Don't turn that on,'' he said, pointing at a digital recorder on the table.
A day later, in an air-conditioned building that incorporated ''Narcissus Garden,'' a work by the Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama, into its design, he seemed to revel in disparaging some other titans of business in Brazil, calling them ''imbeciles'' and contending that poor visitors to Inhotim were often better able to absorb the complex's importance. He also reserved some special disdain for Brazil's richest man, Eike Batista.
''Suddenly, he appears with billions and billions, saying he's going to be the world's richest man,'' he said of Mr. Batista, a mining entrepreneur who gets largely glowing treatment in the news media here as an idol for Brazil's growing number of millionaires. ''He broke every company he had until he was 50 years old.''
Mr. Paz also waved off claims in Brazilian newspapers that Inhotim's expansion was partly due to money laundering, calling such accusations a ''mountain of nonsense and lies.''
''Clearly, no one is totally transparent,'' he acknowledged. Still, he asserted, ''The newspapers never proved anything.''
For now, he seems more concerned with luring the masses to Inhotim to see works like ''Restore Now,'' a mammoth send-up of academic norms by the Swiss artist Thomas Hirschhorn, in which texts by French philosophers like Jacques Derrida and Gilles Deleuze (yes, the ones many people pretended to read in college) are interspersed with images of mutilated bodies.
Asked about specific works, Mr. Paz deftly shifts the conversation to other topics. He smiled when speaking of his new wife, Arystela Rosa, 31, pregnant with his seventh child. Other things at Inhotim draw his interest, like the towering tamboril trees or the traira, a carnivorous fish in the ponds here that can draw blood from visitors foolish enough to dip their fingers in the water.
''There are works of art here which I haven't entered yet, which everyone told me were spectacular, but why should I go in there?'' Mr. Paz said. ''I don't consider myself passionate for art. But gardens, that's what I like.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Saturday Profile article on March 10, about Bernardo Paz, the founder of Inhotim, his contemporary-art complex in the hills of southeast Brazil, misstated part of the name of a private art collection in Scottsdale, Ariz., that is curated by Beverly Adams, an authority on Latin American art who praised Inhotim. Ms. Adams curates the Diane and Bruce Halle Collection (not Halley.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BERNARDO PAZ
A view through ''Viewing Machine,'' by the Danish artist Olafur Eliasson, at Inhotim, Mr. Paz's contemporary art complex, which scatters more than 500 works across a botanical garden.
 ''Desvio para o vermelho'' by the Brazilian artist Cildo Meireles. More photos from the Inhotim complex: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOTANY (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); ART HISTORY (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SMOKING (68%); HISTORY (64%)

PERSON: BRUCE HALLE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (53%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); EARTH (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEXICO (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2012



391 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U.'s Plan For Expansion Draws Anger In Community

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
It is perhaps the largest project ever proposed for Greenwich Village, and it has angered many residents in the area as few issues have recently. Opponents say the development would mar one of New York's signature neighborhoods.
Now the project's future has fallen on the shoulders of two high-profile politicians who aspire to become the next mayor -- Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, and Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president.
New York University says it needs more dormitories, classrooms, athletic and performance spaces and a hotel to accommodate its burgeoning student body and compete with national universities, and it wants to erect four buildings amid two sprawling apartment complexes north of Houston Street.
The square footage of the four buildings, the tallest of which would be 25 floors, would nearly equal that of the Empire State Building. 
The local community board recommended unanimously last month that the Council reject the university's plan -- known as NYU 2031 -- and the zoning changes it would require. The board said that the proposed buildings were too dense and tall and that the addition of thousands of students and workers would erode the character of a still quaint and offbeat city quarter.
Critics also said the 1,700 families who lived in the two complexes where the university wanted to build, including N.Y.U. faculty members, would have to endure years of construction.
Several political leaders, including Ms. Quinn and Mr. Stringer, must decide the project's fate.
Ms. Quinn and Mr. Stringer face a delicate balancing act, taking into account the sentiments of voters in the liberal neighborhoods of Greenwich Village, the East Village, SoHo and NoHo, while considering a university board of trustees that includes real estate developers and businesspeople who contribute to campaigns.
''The bottom line is that elected officials have to take notice'' of the project, said Robert E. Riccobono, first vice chairman of Community Board 2, which voted to oppose it.
Mr. Stringer, who is required under the city's land use reviews to present a recommendation to the City Planning Commission by April 12, has reservations about the current plans.
While a flourishing N.Y.U. is ''essential to the lifeblood of the city's economy,'' he said, the plan as presented is out of scale.
''N.Y.U. raises a legitimate issue about the need to expand, but my job is to make sure that the expansion does not overwhelm the existing neighborhood,'' he said. ''We need to strike the right balance.''
The university's expansion plans are also a thorny subject for some Greenwich Village residents fearful about another dense neighborhood development project being contemplated there, on the campus of the former St. Vincent's Hospital.
Mr. Stringer, who has raised $3.2 million for a mayoral campaign, has made a specialty of cobbling together compromises for academic expansion, having helped gently revamp Columbia University's plan to build a 17-acre satellite campus in West Harlem and Fordham University's ambition of expanding its campus at Lincoln Center. He is in talks with N.Y.U.
''I'm figuring out how to thread the needle on one of the most complicated and important development projects in the city,'' he said.
Any zoning changes would have to be approved by the City Planning Commission, probably in early June, and then by the Council, which must vote by July 31. Speaker Quinn, who has raised a $4.9 million campaign chest, declined to be interviewed, but said through a spokesman that she would work on the issue with the local councilwoman, Margaret Chin.
Councilwoman Chin, besides expressing concern about what construction would mean for residents of the two complexes, also worried that the four buildings would mean the loss of precious greenery.
N.Y.U. owns the land and six of the seven buildings at the two complexes, bordered by Houston, Mercer and West Third Streets and La Guardia Place.
While the debate over the proposal is focused on the future of Greenwich Village, N.Y.U.'s ambitious plan also has wider implications for other parts of Manhattan and for Brooklyn. The university has an engineering campus in Downtown Brooklyn, now called Polytechnic Institute, that it absorbed; influential urban-design experts, like Vin Cipolla, the president of the Municipal Art Society, have urged the university to focus its expansion there.
N.Y.U., which has been in Greenwich Village since 1835, has 42,000 undergraduate and graduate students and contends it has far less space per student than its rivals.
It argues that it needs new facilities to accommodate its rising enrollment, end costly leases for a half-dozen buildings and continue attracting paying students from around the world.
Community board leaders contend the new buildings would bring 10,000 more people to the Washington Square campus, prompting an upsurge in all-night fast food joints that students crave. University officials emphasize that the figure would be under 4,000 students.
The officials also point out that most of the buildings would be built on land already occupied by smaller buildings, like the five-level Jerome S. Coles Sports Center, or by tenant parking lots, and that tenants and neighbors would ultimately have an equivalent amount of green space.
They say the nine-block area is large enough so that staggered construction would not constantly upset all residents.
University officials suggest that N.Y.U., by choosing the complexes as an expansion site, is snared in a Catch-22.
''People wanted us to stay in the existing footprint rather than acquire new properties in the neighborhood,'' said Alicia D. Hurley, the university's vice president for government and community affairs.
Some faculty members, including Mark Crispin Miller, oppose the plan. Dr. Miller, a member of a faculty steering committee fighting the plan, said the project would prompt professors residing in the complexes to leave the university.
''We wanted not only to teach at N.Y.U. but to live in the Village,'' said Dr. Miller, a professor of media, culture and communications, who lives in Washington Square Village, which is the northernmost complex.
The community board's rejection was advisory, but the debate, said Brad Hoylman, its chairman, reflected the anger many neighbors have long felt toward a university that has gobbled up many buildings in Greenwich Village and the East Village and put up buildings like a dormitory on East 12th Street that critics argue has tarnished the legendary Bohemian charm that draws many students.
''This irony is not lost on Community Board 2,'' its resolution opposing the project said. ''For through its 2031 plan, N.Y.U. threatens to destroy the very essence of the local neighborhood from which it benefits handsomely.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A huge expansion of New York University is vital, school officials say, but some neighbors oppose its size and density. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A rendering of what N.Y.U.'s campus would look like in 2031, compared with its appearance now, as seen in an aerial view. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
 N.Y.U. PHOTO BUREAU) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); POLITICS (78%); ZONING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



392 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Some Dos and Don'ts About Leverage, Simply Put

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
I RECENTLY came across a report on the value of taking on some debt that was so simply worded and straightforward that I was startled. Those types of reports, typically, are anything but easy to understand. They're also usually trying to sell something that is complicated.
But then, I wondered about the need for the report, ''Leverage: A Thoughtful Approach,'' part of a series from J. P. Morgan Private Bank called ''Managing Wealth in a New World.'' Have even the very rich become so averse to debt, or leverage as it's called in financial jargon, that they need a primer?
The answer, it appears, is yes. And that is not necessarily a good thing. Debt, after all, allows you to keep cash on hand. On a more complex level, it can allow you to increase your investment returns without taking excessive risks. 
When I called the writer of the report, Phil D. Conway, the United States head of capital advisory at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, he confirmed that his aim had been simple. ''All we were trying to do with the paper was to get people to think rationally about debt and not irrationally,'' Mr. Conway said. ''There is a healthy way to think about leverage, and that's what I wanted to do with the piece.''
He said he realized that most people had either a fight or flight mentality toward debt. ''It's sort of like being at an all-you-can-eat buffet,'' he said. ''People gorge themselves when times are hot and then they say they're never eating again until they get hungry. Then guess what? They gorge themselves again.''
To continue the analogy, J. P. Morgan and other banks are not about to throw open the doors of the buffet to everyone, and they will make money from lending money to a group of people they are confident can pay it back.
But what interested me was finding the more rational ways that people are using debt. This is not an issue just because interest rates are at historic lows. Instead, there are costs to paying cash for everything and putting money in low-yielding bonds. Here are some of the advisers' thoughts on debt that struck me.
EXTREME CAUTION For the average person, debt is a mortgage, car loan or credit card balance. For the wealthiest, debt can be money borrowed to increase investmentreturns, and it goes by the fancier name of leverage. The goal is to get a return higher than it costs to borrow the money.
John C. Bailey, the founder and chief executive of Spruce Private Investors, which manages $3.2 billion for a group of ultra-affluent families, said his clients were particularly cautious about any leverage today.
''There are two areas where clients have levered historically,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''Only one of them has worked out.''
That one way is borrowing to buy commercial real estate. His clients continue to do that, but they are putting more money down.
Borrowing has not worked out, he said, when people have used the money for illiquid investments like hedge funds that are already leveraged. ''Leverage on leverage never ends well,'' he said.
Leverage, after all, not only multiplies returns on the way up, it also quickly compounds losses on the way down.
As to household debt, the advisers said their shrewdest clients were paying that down to levels that were psychologically comforting, if not rational.
John M. Verfurth, managing director at VWG Wealth Management, a division of HighTower, said clients had paid down mortgages to less than $1.1 million, which is the limit of where mortgage interest can be deducted.
And that is true even among people of higher income levels, where the deduction could be phased out starting in 2013 if there is no extension of certain parts of the Bush administration tax cuts.
THE BLINDNESS OF LENDERS At the same time, many more people are taking on more risk than they may realize.
The other side of borrowing money is lending it, and that is what the millions of people who have bought United States Treasuries have done. Being a lender to the federal government carries risks if inflation increases or the economy improves enough that people start selling their Treasury bonds to get higher yields elsewhere.
''What we're telling our clients is it's an incredibly dangerous time to be a lender, particularly to the U.S. government because rates are at historic lows,'' said Joseph J. Duran, chief executive of United Capital Financial Partners. ''If the economy picks up steam and we get any inflation, it will have a huge impact on returns.''
Mr. Duran said his firm had completed a study that showed that 1 percent increase in yields on 30-year Treasuries would result in an 18 percent loss in the value of the bond. He added that Treasuries were 3 percent below their historic average yields.
Of course, such advice, built on simple math, can go unheeded when investors remain scared about other options.
''I have clients who are 100 percent in fixed income and who still want to bury their money in the backyard,'' said Seth J. Finkel, managing director at Neuberger Berman Wealth Management. ''Often, I have to explain the risks of being a lender. You used to be able to get safety and income, but now you choose one or the other.''
GOOD BORROWING In the end, I found two areas where a little debt, judiciously applied, can be beneficial.
The first is a way to get slightly higher returns without taking on considerably more risk. Mr. Conway gave an example of borrowing 30 percent against $1 million in bonds with two- to three-year maturities so the investor had $1.3 million invested. ''My yield could go from 7.5 percent to a little over 8 percent with a modest increase in volatility,'' he said. ''That's a better way to get increased return than going down to buying junk.'' That may not sounds like a big return but he argues that it is a safer way to increase yields than buying riskier investments.
The other use is for personal needs, and that is through a margin account. While no one is recommending you borrow $105,000 against your bond portfolio to buy a Mercedes SL500, borrowing against a securities portfolio can be an easy and low-cost alternative to taking out a bank loan for a mortgage or business investment.
''A bank may not want to lend $2 million on a $3 million house, but Schwab, who is our custodian, will lend $2 million on a $4 million account at 2 to 4 percent in a few hours,'' said Marc Singer, founding partner of Singer Xenos Wealth Management. ''It's so cheap because the loan is 100 percent securitized and 100 percent liquid. A bank may not want to put that big of a loan on its books.''
If a portfolio is earning 5 to 6 percent and a bank will not lend to you, then borrowing against your own money at 3 percent is perfectly rational.
Of course, being a rational investor is not always easy. ''You could say I'm comfortable with a stock like Apple, but I bet you could get less volatility in a leveraged bond portfolio,'' Mr. Conway said.
And volatility, or how much any investment swings up or down, is probably going to determine whether you stick with it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phil Conway, author of a report on leverage for J.P. Morgan Private Bank, said the bank was trying ''to get people to think rationally about debt.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRIVATE BANKING (89%); BONDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



393 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: German Leader and I.M.F. Chief Split Over Debt

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and ANNIE LOWREY; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and Annie Lowrey from Washington. Liz Alderman contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- With a deal on Greek debt finally done, Europe will shift its attention to two of its most powerful women, friends who have dueling views about what needs to be done to prevent future Greek-like meltdowns from spreading to other economies.
The International Monetary Fund's managing director, Christine Lagarde, who is French, finds herself on a collision course with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, posing a test for the unusually close relationship between the two leaders. They have opposing stances on how much money is need to protect vulnerable economies, and how it should be raised.
Ms. Lagarde says Europe needs at least $1 trillion in emergency funds and is pressing for a much more robust European contribution before the I.M.F. commits to raising more money from its members. She has worked hard to drag along Ms. Merkel, who is hamstrung by a domestic constituency sharply opposed to committing more money to rescue neighbors.
In spite of the sometimes tough negotiations, colleagues and confidants describe a warmth and chemistry between the two leaders that transcends policy differences. They are on a first-name basis. They frequently exchange text messages. Shortly after Christmas, Ms. Lagarde brought Ms. Merkel a trinket from Hermes and received a recording of the Berlin Philharmonic playing Beethoven from Ms. Merkel, a classical music lover. 
''There are many circles and many forums where it's only the two of us who are women,'' Ms. Lagarde said in an interview. ''So there's a sense of recognition, complicity, solidarity.''
Yet for all that personal solidarity, the two leaders have come to represent competing philosophies for solving the debt crisis that has punished European economies and threatened the financial stability of the rest of the world.
Their opposing worldviews may well come from formative experiences. As a high school student, Ms. Merkel traveled from East Germany to Moscow to take part in a Russian language competition; Ms. Lagarde attended a prominent girl's school in suburban Washington, complete with an internship on Capitol Hill.
Ms. Lagarde, nicknamed l'Americaine in her native France, has been vocal in support of pro-growth policies on the part of the richer European countries to help their more indebted neighbors. She has pressed Europe to make its firewalls -- the pools of money available to keep borrowing rates at sustainable levels -- so enormous that they scare off would-be speculators.
Since becoming the head of the I.M.F., and in stark contrast to her public statements in her prior job, as French finance minister, she has repeatedly castigated Europe for doing too little, too late, and lacking focus on spurring higher growth rates.
Ms. Merkel, who declined to be interviewed for this article, has argued that free-spending governments got many European countries into trouble in the first place, and that the path to stability runs through austerity. Large firewalls, in this view, only give countries like Greece a false sense of security and an excuse to ease up on the painful measures demanded of them. Ms. Merkel has demanded assurances that all European countries bring their finances under strict control before the governments of the European Union agree to free up resources to help.
Their differences were brought into sharp relief in January when Ms. Lagarde gave a speech at the German Council on Foreign Relations in Berlin in which she demanded that Germany step up its efforts to save the world from ''a 1930s moment.'' Switching from her fluent English to halting, phonetic German, she concluded with a line by the German poet Goethe. ''It is not enough to know, we must apply,'' Ms. Lagarde told the audience. ''It is not enough to will, we must do.''
The speech made headlines around the world, evidence of a backroom dispute breaking out into the open. Yet Ms. Lagarde had arrived in Berlin on the eve of her address with a copy of the speech, for Ms. Merkel to read, before Ms. Lagarde delivered it in front of the political and foreign-policy establishment. The two women debated the crisis in private over a dinner of veal tenderloin in the modern Chancellery's eighth-floor dining room.
Ms. Lagarde also brought Ms. Merkel an orange-blossom-scented candle from the French perfumer Fragonard. The candle represented ''hope,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''Because we had tough discussions,'' she said, there ''was an element of symbolism about it.''
Ms. Lagarde, 56, and Ms. Merkel, 57, appear to be opposites, the glamorous, Chanel-clad French extrovert and the grounded German introvert, recently spotted doing her own grocery shopping in the same suit jacket she had worn to sign the new European fiscal pact in Brussels earlier that day.
''I've been in government and know what securing parliamentary support means,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''And equally she appreciates that I speak from a position where I have to think about not only Germany but also the whole of Europe and the stability of the international scene.''
German officials are less skeptical of Ms. Lagarde, as a former French finance minister, than they are about American officials, who they believe are focused on President Obama's re-election. Ms. Lagarde's close relationship with Ms. Merkel makes it easier to bridge the gap between the United States and Germany, making her a more effective mediator.
Ms. Lagarde is ''one of those policy makers that Ms. Merkel would listen to,'' said a French official who worked with her. ''There is a relationship of trust, even if there may be issues on which their views differ.''
Indeed, people close to the negotiations say that German leaders have given tacit promises that Europeans will raise more money for their firewall, given enough time to build consensus in Europe. Officials also say the I.M.F. should have little trouble raising $500 billion in lending capacity once that happens.
Analysts have noted that the austerity Ms. Merkel has pressed on other European countries has long been the I.M.F. prescription, while tough talk from Ms. Lagarde could help Ms. Merkel sell unpopular measures at home. ''I have a suspicion that the two ladies are not as far apart as it appears, or is made to appear, in public,'' said Stephan Richter, president of the Globalist Research Center in Washington.
In the years it has taken to reach consensus on how to handle the crisis, critics say the toll to business confidence, financial markets and economic growth has been unnecessarily high. Hope for a long-term solution to Europe's debt crisis could well rest on the ability of these friends to bridge differences before Europe's chronic problems flare up again.
Though Europeans of the same generation, Ms. Merkel and Ms. Lagarde once had lives as divided as the continent they grew up on. Separated throughout their youths by the Iron Curtain, the odds they would meet as politicians at the highest levels was improbable.
Ms. Lagarde was a member of France's national team for synchronized swimming. Ms. Merkel famously needed to spend an entire swimming class mustering the courage to jump off the diving board. The prospects under Communism for a pastor's daughter like Ms. Merkel in politics were dim at best, and she became a physicist. Ms. Lagarde became a lawyer and rose to the top of an American corporate firm.
Once they entered politics, their climbs were similarly swift. Ms. Merkel was head of Germany's largest party, the Christian Democrats, just 10 years after joining in 1990. She beat out career politicians to win the chancellorship five years later in 2005. Ms. Lagarde won the top I.M.F. post a mere six years after joining the French government as trade minister in 2005.
The personal relationship between them was nurtured when Ms. Lagarde became the first and only member of a foreign government to sit in on a German cabinet meeting in March 2010, taking her place across the Chancellery conference table from Ms. Merkel. ''It was a very moving moment, because she made a point of inviting me and nobody else,'' Ms. Lagarde said.
For Ms. Lagarde, sorting through the differences requires patience, as well as understanding for Ms. Merkel's deeply analytical, scientific approach. ''You have to continuously explain, rationalize, dissect the whys, the pros and the cons and plead your case,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''It's the lawyer and the physicist. I will continue to grit my teeth and smile and keep up the work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine Lagarde, left, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHANNES EISELE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Christine Lagarde arriving for a December dinner with European leaders in Brussels, and Chancellor Angela Merkel conferring with other leaders at a Brussels summit meeting in March. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC FEFERBERG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 LIONEL BONAVENTURE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); CHRISTMAS (66%); MUSIC (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



394 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Says U.S. and Israeli 'Clocks' Differ on Iran's Threat

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Addressing his home audience after talks with President Obama in Washington this week, the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, acknowledged that differences still existed in the Israeli and American timetables for contending with the Iranian nuclear program. 
In taped interviews to be broadcast this weekend on the three main Israeli television channels, Mr. Netanyahu told Israelis that he hoped that international pressure and economic sanctions would succeed in persuading Iran to abandon its nuclear program, which Israel and the West suspect is a cover for Iranian efforts to achieve the capability to make nuclear weapons.
But in excerpts of the interviews shown late Thursday, Mr. Netanyahu reiterated the point he had sought to make forcefully in Washington: that if Iran did not change course, Israel, which considers a nuclear Iran a threat to its existence, would not allow itself to be in a position where its fate was left in others' hands.
''The United States is big and distant, Israel is smaller and closer to Iran, and naturally, we have different capabilities,'' Mr. Netanyahu told Channel One, the public television channel. ''So the American clock regarding preventing Iranian nuclearization is not the Israeli one. The Israeli clock works, obviously, according to a different schedule.''
He added that Israel must never be in a position where it could not defend itself.
Allaying fears of any imminent action, Mr. Netanyahu told the commercial Channel Two that stopping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons capability was ''not a matter of days or weeks.'' But he added, ''It is also not a matter of years.''
The interviews were to be broadcast in full on Saturday night.
Iran insists that its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes. However, after a series of increasingly onerous sanctions were imposed on Iran by the West, it agreed last month to resume talks on its uranium enrichment. Israel, the United States and the other Western powers believe that even if Iran has not yet decided to assemble a nuclear bomb, it is striving to create the capability to do so.
Mr. Netanyahu has vowed that Iran will not obtain a nuclear weapon on his watch. Israel has long called for the need for a credible military option against Iran, and there has been growing anxiety abroad that Israel might carry out a pre-emptive strike against Iran's nuclear facilities in the coming months.
Mr. Netanyahu and his aides have highlighted the importance of Mr. Obama's public statements about the need for Israel to ''always have the ability to defend itself, by itself, against any threat,'' and ''Israel's sovereign right to make its own decisions about what is required to meet its security needs.''
But at the same time, Mr. Obama made it clear that he believes that more time should be given for the sanctions and negotiations to work, that the only way to permanently prevent Iran from going nuclear is to have Iran decide to give up its program, and that this was not the time for an Israeli pre-emptive strike.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



395 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: A Candidate's Character

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gail Collins is right to discuss the way Mitt Romney treated Seamus, the family dog, on a trip to Canada in 1983 (''Dogging Mitt Romney,'' column, March 8). The incident is a window on Mr. Romney's character, and character is important. 
Indeed, I suggest that character is at least as important as a candidate's position on issues. That is because the issues that we think to be paramount often lose significance during a candidate's term in office.
Who would have thought that the defining issue of George W. Bush's presidency would be international terrorism? And who expected that Mr. Bush's second term would be marked by the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression? Assessing a candidate's character allows voters to judge how she or he would deal with debates and crises that we cannot now foresee.
The way that Mr. Romney treated his family's dog tells us something about the kind of man he is, and the kind of president he would be. Not everything, but something.
JONATHAN J. MARGOLIS Brookline, Mass., March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); TERRORISM (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



396 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Auto Bailout Critics, A Word: Lehman

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
Would Americans be better off if General Motors and Chrysler had simply gone bankrupt, without benefit of taxpayer assistance?
For the Republican presidential candidates Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum, the answer is emphatically yes. They've outdone one another denouncing the auto bailout. Mr. Romney told The Detroit News that the government's rescue of the American auto companies amounted to ''crony capitalism on a grand scale'' and has argued that G.M. should have gone through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy without taxpayer assistance. According to Mr. Santorum, ''the government should not be involved in bailouts, period.'' Mr. Gingrich called the auto industry rescue ''a violation of 200 years of bankruptcy law.'' 
Unlike a science experiment, in which variables can be changed and the experiment repeated, we can't turn back the clock, let the auto companies go bankrupt and compare the results with what we have today, which is an American auto industry that is, by nearly all measures, healthier than it's been in many years. G.M. and Chrysler, not to mention Ford, which didn't get taxpayer money but benefited indirectly, are profitable, hiring more workers, competing more effectively, gaining market share and building better cars and trucks. But we do have a contemporaneous case study by which to measure the auto bailout: Lehman Brothers, which remains the largest bankruptcy ever measured by assets.
This week the once venerable investment bank emerged from three and a half years in Chapter 11. Gone, along with the gleaming Midtown Manhattan tower now branded with the Barclays logo, are most of the more than 25,000 jobs once on the firm's payroll and nearly all the over $600 billion in assets that once swelled its balance sheet. Lehman still owns a large portfolio of troubled real estate assets and derivative securities. Its only reason for existence is to manage those assets to pay off its remaining creditors, whose claims total more than $300 billion. It remains mired in contentious litigation.
Lehman's bankruptcy was untainted by any taxpayer money or government rescue operation. After efforts to arrange a private rescue failed, the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve and White House decided not to rescue it, but instead to try to limit the consequences by putting ''foam on the runway,'' as the New York Federal Reserve chief at the time, Timothy F. Geithner, put it. We all know the results: a near-catastrophic collapse of investor confidence, plunging markets and the Great Recession.
Even so, a case can be made that Lehman fared much better than could have been expected for either G.M. or Chrysler. Within days of Lehman's collapse, Barclays stepped in and bought its core investment banking unit. That gave Lehman the cash to keep managing the remaining assets, and it subsequently was able to borrow what is known as debtor-in-possession financing to keep operating through the Chapter 11 process. Barclays kept about 10,000 Lehman Brothers employees.
None of those options were available to G.M. or Chrysler. Months into the financial crisis, rapidly running out of cash, the auto companies couldn't find anyone interested in buying their assets. Even if they could, no banks were in a position to lend to would-be acquirers, nor would they provide the financing needed to keep the automakers operating during the Chapter 11 process. When G.M. filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, a Federal District Court ruled that the Treasury was the only potential source for the $15 billion in DIP financing G.M. needed to continue operating. The court also oversaw and approved G.M.'s emergence from bankruptcy, contrary to Mr. Gingrich's contention that G.M.'s reorganization was a ''violation'' of bankruptcy law.
I spoke this week to Harvey R. Miller, a partner at Weil, Gotschal & Manges in New York and a prominent bankruptcy expert who advised both Lehman and G.M. The idea that General Motors or Chrysler could have survived a Chapter 11 filing without government support ''was very unlikely,'' he told me. ''Without the debtor-in-possession financing, they would have had to shut down,'' he said. ''The court ruled there was no possibility for DIP financing except from the government. The Republican candidates are ignoring this. I've watched the debates. The misstatements are so shocking.'' (Mr. Miller said he wasn't identified with either political party.)
Besides the fact that no one would provide the financing to keep the companies running, Mr. Miller said, ''every survey ended with the conclusion that few, if any, people would buy a vehicle from a company that was in Chapter 11,'' unless there were some guarantee. ''A car or truck is the second-largest investment an American family makes after the purchase of a home,'' he said. ''Buyers factor in what will happen to the warranty, maintenance and the resale value. They were going to be very reluctant to buy a car from a company whose future was in serious doubt.'' Even with government backing, rivals used G.M.'s brief 43 days in Chapter 11 -- a far shorter period than Lehman's -- to try to grab market share.
Mr. Miller said that an analogy to the kind of Chapter 11 bankruptcy Mr. Romney has called for, one unassisted by taxpayer money, might come from Braniff Airways, which filed for bankruptcy in 1982. Passengers were already shunning the airline as rumors of bankruptcy circulated. Once it filed, much of its fleet was grounded. It soon ran out of the cash needed to keep operating in bankruptcy. The airline was liquidated.
It's hard to measure what would have been the consequences if G.M. and Chrysler had been forced to liquidate. But we know that policymakers seriously underestimated the unforeseen reactions and dire results of Lehman's bankruptcy filing. Rescuing Lehman wouldn't have addressed the deeper causes of the crisis, like the housing and mortgage bubbles. Still, it might have prevented the near panic that ensued. It's hard to find anyone today who argues that letting Lehman Brothers fail was actually a good thing, although Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich have both said they wouldn't have bailed it out. Mr. Miller says he believes the consequences of a G.M. and Chrysler failure would have been potentially catastrophic.
''It was clear in December of 2008, if G.M. and Chrysler went under, the effects would course through the entire automotive supply business,'' he said. ''Dana and Delphi had already failed. Many others were on the brink. The estimate we saw was that in excess of 500,000 jobs would be lost. Michigan, Indiana, Ohio and Illinois would have been devastated. It was a compelling factual situation. President Bush took a look at this and said, 'I can't let this happen on my watch.' ''
Even though Mr. Bush is an avowed free-market champion, he approved emergency loans of $17.4 billion to G.M. and Chrysler, financed by the same Troubled Asset Relief Program legislation that rescued the banks, which gave the automakers enough cash to operate until the Obama administration could fashion a longer-term plan. The Republican candidates have repudiated Mr. Bush's action in the name of ideological consistency, ''but sometimes circumstances get in the way of philosophy,'' he told a national convention of auto dealers last month. ''I would make the same decision again.''
However healthy the American auto industry is today, the idea of government bailouts and continued ownership of private companies remain anathema to a large swath of the American public, an audience the Republican candidates are surely aware of. Last month a Gallup poll asked, ''Do you approve of the auto bailout?'' A majority, 51 percent, said no; 44 percent said yes. Among Republicans, 73 percent said they disapproved of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harvey Miller, right, a bankruptcy expert, with Lehman Brothers' former chief, Richard Fuld, in Washington in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CASE STUDIES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); MARKET SHARE (65%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK SANTORUM (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); RICHARD S FULD (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



397 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Mitt, Grits and Grit

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
''I'm learning to say 'y'all,' and I like grits. Things, strange things are happening to me.''
Those are the words of Willard Mitt Romney campaigning in Pascagoula, Miss., this week.
Wow. Note to Mitt: As a Southerner, I've never known us to find caricature endearing. But welcome to the Deep South anyway, Mitt. I wonder if you've been introduced to one of my favorite Southern sayings: the backhanded ''Bless your heart.'' 
By all accounts you're going to need it. No one expects you to do well on Tuesday when Mississippi and Alabama hold their primaries.
(Kansas holds its caucuses on Saturday, and Rick Santorum is leading the polls there.)
When Gov. Phil Bryant of Mississippi endorsed Romney on Thursday, he tried his best to humanize him, saying: ''He just has a warm, comfortable way about him. I like to see a man when he's holding a baby. And he looks like he's held a baby before. Let me tell you, this man is connecting with the people of this nation, and it is about those simple things.'' He knows how to hold a baby? Nice try, governor. Bless your heart.
According to Gallup, Mississippi is the most conservative state in the union, and Alabama clocks in at No. 4. Romney continues to struggle with more conservative voters. In the 2008 elections, 7 out of 10 Mississippi primary voters described themselves as born-again or evangelical Christians. Romney has also struggled with that group.
Last Tuesday, in the primaries in the states of Oklahoma, Georgia and Tennessee, about 70 percent of voters said it was important that their candidate share their religious views. Romney won no more than a quarter of those voters in each state. Welcome to the Southern G.O.P. Bless your heart.
Some argue that this is inconsequential and that all Romney has to do is win the nomination and rank-and-file Republicans will fall in line. They even argue that his less-than-strident, often inconsistent, views may be an asset in a postnomination tack to the middle.
It is true that these states are in no danger of swinging Democratic. Mississippi and Alabama haven't voted Democratic since 1976. And since Mississippi started holding primaries, no Republican candidate except the eventual presidential nominee has won the state, according to Catherine Morse, a University of Michigan government and political science librarian.
In fact, Obama lost both states to John McCain in 2008 by large margins, and the votes were largely along racial lines. In both states, 88 percent of whites voted for McCain, while 98 percent of blacks voted for Obama.
Obama will not win Mississippi and Alabama, period. But that's not the issue. The issue is enthusiasm, which has a way of bleeding across borders and ideological boundaries.
In elections, enthusiasm has two sources: for your candidate or against the other. We know well that there is a high level of hostility toward Obama on the right, but he still maintains a number of liberal devotees. Although there are some on the left who have softened on him, he still has a wide swath of passionate supporters who seem to feel that he is moving in the right direction and deserves a chance to finish the work he has started. In fact, according to Gallup, at this point in the race, Democrats are more enthusiastic about Obama than Republicans are about Romney.
The elections will boil down to a duel between anger and optimism, and in general elections optimism wins. Energy wins. Vision wins.
If the message that emerges from the nominating process is that Republican voters lack confidence in their candidate, that is not a message that can be easily sold to swing voters. It's hard to point to your candidate's good qualities when you're using your hands to hold your own nose.
If the Republican nominee can't appeal to his own base, how can he expect to draw from the middle and the left?
This is the conservative conundrum.
The Republican Party had an opening as wide as the Gulf of Mexico to unseat President Obama, but it appears that it could close with a weak candidate. The president has been hammered by a sputtering economy and hemmed in by an intransigent Congress. All the Republicans needed was a presidential nominee who could capture their discontent on a gritty, granular level and put a positive, big-picture, forward-looking face on it.
Instead, they find themselves with a scraggly lot of scary characters, each with a handicap larger than the next. And the one who's likely to win the nomination is the one whom the base has the biggest doubts about. He has the good looks of a president but not the guts of one. The only view that he has consistently held is that he wants to win. Everything else is negotiable.
He projects the slick feel of a man who's trying to sell you something that you don't want by telling you something that you don't believe. People don't trust and can't fully endorse it, even the ones who deeply dislike the president. In fact, poll after poll finds that the longer the nomination fight drags on and the more people come to know Romney, the higher their unfavorable opinions of him climb.
Furthermore, postnomination pivots have become more difficult in a world driven by YouTube, social media and citizen activism, where prenomination politicking lives forever online in a candidate's own voice (and often on video).
Unfortunately for Romney, grits don't give you grit. Dabbling in dialectic speech won't quench people's thirst for straight talk. Being called warm and comfortable doesn't remove the gut feeling that you are cold and rigid. There is something missing from the core of the man, and people can see straight through him.
That makes places like Mississippi a real litmus test -- of Romney's ability to convert his base by connecting with it. Mississippi is a world away from Massachusetts. It's a ruby-red state and the heart of conservatism. Mississippi is where he has to sell himself.
Bless his heart, y'all.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Romney's Negatives: Selected polls showing Mitt Romney's unfavorable rating from March 2011 to most recent poll. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); CONSERVATISM (86%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); RELIGION (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); PHIL BRYANT (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012



398 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 760 words

PERSON: Peter Bergman 

HEADLINE: Peter Bergman, Satirist With Firesign, Dies at 72

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Peter Bergman, a founding member of the surrealist comedy troupe Firesign Theater, whose albums became cult favorites among college students in the late 1960s and '70s for a brand of sly, multilayered satire so dense it seemed riddled with non sequiturs until the second, third or 30th listening, died on Friday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 72.
The cause was complications of leukemia, said Jeff Abraham, a spokesman for the group. 
Mr. Bergman hosted an all-night radio call-in show on KPFK in Los Angeles beginning in 1966, ''Radio Free Oz,'' which served as the testing ground for the high-spirited Firesign sensibility. Phil Austin and David Ossman, two other founders of the four-man group, were the producer and director of the show; the fourth founder, Phil Proctor, was a frequent guest.
''We started out as four friends, up all night, taking calls from people on bad acid trips and having the time of our lives,'' Mr. Austin said in a phone interview Friday. ''And that's what we always were: four friends talking.''
Mr. Bergman and his friends recorded their first album, ''Waiting for the Electrician or Someone Like Him,'' in 1968, followed the next year by ''How Can You Be in Two Places at Once When You're Not Anywhere At All?''
By 1970, their mordant humor and their mastery of stereophonic recording techniques had made them to their generation of 20-somethings what Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert are to today's (if Mr. Colbert and Mr. Stewart had a weakness for literary wordplay, psychedelic references and jokes about the Counter-Reformation).
Their records employed sound effects in ways considered pioneering in audio comedy at the time. More generally, they were considered important forerunners of comedy shows like ''Saturday Night Live.''
Ed Ward, writing in The New York Times in 1972, described the third Firesign album, ''Don't Crush That Dwarf, Hand Me the Pliers,'' as ''a mind-boggling sound drama'' and a ''work of almost Joycean complexity.''
''It's almost impossible to summarize any Firesign album,'' Mr. Ward wrote, because most of their albums were so filled with ''intricate wordplay, stunning engineering and use of sound effects, breakneck pacing and, of course, a terribly complex story line.''
When the Library of Congress placed ''Don't Crush That Dwarf'' in its National Recording Registry in 2005, The Los Angeles Times described Firesign Theater as ''the Beatles of comedy.''
Mr. Bergman told people the ensemble's albums, unlike most comedy records, were never made to be listened to just once or twice. ''He said our records were made to be heard about 80 times,'' Mr. Austin said.
While the ensemble continued making albums for three decades, Mr. Bergman also wrote and produced several one-man shows, including ''Help Me Out of This Head,'' a 1986 monologue-memoir that drew on his childhood in Cleveland. He also wrote interactive games, including a CD-ROM parody of the popular adventure video game Myst.
Mr. Bergman was born on Nov. 29, 1939, in Cleveland, one of two children of Oscar and Rita Bergman. His parents hosted a radio show in Cleveland when he was growing up, ''Breakfast With the Bergmans.'' His father also worked as a reporter for The Plain Dealer.
Mr. Bergman graduated from Yale and taught economics there as a Carnegie Fellow. He later attended the Yale School of Drama as a Eugene O'Neill playwriting fellow. He moved to Los Angeles in the early 1960s to pursue a writing career.
He is survived by a daughter, Lily Oscar Bergman, and his sister, Wendy Kleckner.
Mr. Bergman got a taste of radio work when he was in high school, according to a biography on Firesign Theater's official Web site. But he lost his job as an announcer on the school radio system, it said, ''after his unauthorized announcement that the Chinese Communists had taken over the school and that a 'mandatory voluntary assembly was to take place immediately.' Russell Rupp, the school principal, promptly relieved Peter of his announcing gig. Rupp was the inspiration for the Principal Poop character on 'Don't Crush That Dwarf.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clockwise from far right, Peter Bergman, Phil Austin, Phil Proctor and Dave Ossman of the Firesign Theater in 1970. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRESIGN THEATRE/COLUMBIA RECORDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); LEUKEMIA (71%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (69%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (60%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

JON STEWART (79%); STEPHEN COLBERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

CATEGORY: Broadcasting

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



399 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Risk and Fear, from Hiroshima to Fukushima

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A physicist and science historian considers the wave of nuclear fear that persists one year after waves and tremors shattered a nuclear complex in Japan. 

 BODY:
Next month will see the publication of "The Rise of Nuclear Fear," a fresh look at the history of perceptions of nuclear risk by the physicist and historian Spencer Weart, who builds this book on his 1988 work "Nuclear Fear: A History of Images." Weart is best known to Dot Earth regulars as the author of the essential guide to 100 years of research pointing to a human influence on climate, "The Discovery of Global Warming" (here's my 2003 review of that book for The Times).
With the world turning its focus to Japan on the anniversary this weekend of the great earthquake and tsunami that ravaged Honshu island and wrecked the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power complex there, I invited Weart to muse on the consequences, which have been far more economic and psychological than radiological.
Here's Spencer Weart's "Your Dot" essay on the roots of nuclear fear, and its resurgence after the ravaging of the Fukushima plant: 
A year after the Fukushima reactor catastrophe, we can start to estimate its effects on people's medical and mental health. Curiously, it's the mental impact that we can predict best. As a recent Green Blog post by Matthew Wald explained, the medical effects are expected to be too weak and widely dispersed to measure. According to one theory, the increased radiation received by hundreds of thousands of citizens will cause an increase in their cancer rate - but an increase too tiny to detect amid the large number of cancers that will occur anyway. According to a rival theory, radiation at these low levels will cause scarcely any cancers at all. Scientists just don't know.
The psychological impact, however, is plain. Precisely because damage from very-low-level radiation cannot be detected, people exposed to it are left in anguished uncertainty. Many believe they have been fundamentally contaminated for life. They may refuse to have children for fear of birth defects. They may be shunned by others who fear a sort of mysterious contagion.
Add onto this the dislocation from forced evacuation, and you have a recipe for social isolation, anxiety, depression, psychosomatic medical problems, reckless behavior, even suicide. Such was the outcome of the still worse nuclear accident at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986. A comprehensive 2005 study concluded that "the mental health impact of Chernobyl is the largest public health problem unleashed by the accident to date."
Such great psychological danger does not accompany other materials that put people at risk of cancer and other deadly illness. Visceral fear is not widely aroused by, for example, the daily emissions from coal burning, although, as a National Academy of Sciences study found, this causes 10,000 premature deaths a year among Americans. It is only nuclear radiation that bears a huge psychological burden - for it carries a unique historical legacy.
The association of nuclear radiation with uncanny danger was present already in the 1930s in science fiction. One example, the movie "The Invisible Ray" featured actor Boris Karloff as a radioactively glowing mad scientist [the trailer is above].
After the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings the imagery exploded into an entire genre of movies with gigantic insects and other horrors. Audiences quailed at the monsters, imagining that they were plausible consequences of radiation.
To be sure, people knew that nuclear energy had a good side. Already in the 1950s, radiation therapy was saving lives by the million. But thoughts of "good atoms" were overwhelmed by the terrors of the Cold War. Outcries against bomb tests focused on the radioactive materials they spread around the world on the winds. Debates over fallout shelters offered an image of a dead planet scourged by radioactive dust. In short, fear of nuclear war drove home images of radiation as an insidious contamination that was uniquely deadly on a global scale.
Overt fears dwindled with the end of the Cold War, but the idea of nuclear radiation as an almost magical pollutant persisted. Think of the three-eyed fish in the effluent of the nuclear power plant featured in television's "The Simpsons," or the horrid mutants that shamble through the popular post-apocalyptic computer game "Fallout." A more realistic image is terrorists planning to explode a "dirty" bomb, that is, an ordinary bomb that scatters radioactive materials around a neighborhood. Of course if you want to terrorize people with cancer-causing substances, there are plenty that are easier to get hold of than nuclear wastes. But it's the nuclear stuff that would bring real panic, large-scale evacuation, and frantic cleanup efforts wherever the tiniest trace of radioactivity could be detected. So nuclear fear feeds back on itself, holding its status as the supreme horror.
That's not to say we should be terrified by ordinary chemicals. While pollution does shorten some lives, overall our industries bring indispensable benefits. But let's try to level things up. An atom of a radioactive element, just like an atom of mercury or a molecule of a carcinogenic smoke, should be approached cautiously but objectively - not as if it was a breeder of unspeakable mythic horrors.
 5:14 p.m. |Technical Note

        
Culture, Risk and the Atom
        
From the Fire Hose: Fukushima Examined; Extreme Weather Probed
        
On Quake History and Climate Warnings
        
Why We Often Worry Too Much, and Sometimes Not Enough
        
Dot Connection: From Palestinian Politics to Tsunami Warnings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); HISTORY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); CANCER (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); MENTAL HEALTH (88%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (75%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); WRITERS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); DEPRESSION (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); SUICIDE (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (61%) disasters; Earthquakes; fear; fukushima; nuclear power; psychology; risk; Disasters and Emergencies; Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant (Japan); Japan Earthquake and Tsunami (2011); Nuclear Energy; energy; environmental policy; technology

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (94%); UKRAINE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



400 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: How India Became America

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Americanization of India brings prosperity and the collapse of social structures - and young men calling their colleagues "dude." 

 BODY:
"Another brick has come down in the great wall separating India from the rest of the world," Akash Kapur writesin the Sunday Review of The New York Times about Starbucks and Amazon entering the Indian market. "Amazon has already started a comparison shopping site; Starbucks plans to open its first outlet this summer."
"For me, though, the arrival of these two companies, so emblematic of American consumerism, and so emblematic, too, of the West Coast techie culture that has infiltrated India's own booming technology sector, is a sign of something more distinctive," Mr. Kapur writes. "It signals the latest episode in India's remarkable process of Americanization." 
I grew up in rural India, the son of an Indian father and American mother. I spent many summers (and the occasional biting, shocking winter) in rural Minnesota. I always considered both countries home. In truth, though, the India and America of my youth were very far apart: cold war adversaries, America's capitalist exuberance a sharp contrast to India's austere socialism. For much of my life, my two homes were literally - but also culturally, socially and experientially - on opposite sides of the planet.
All that began changing in the early 1990s, when India liberalized its economy. Since then, I've watched India's transformation with exhilaration, but occasionally, and increasingly, with some anxiety. 
Mr. Kapur concludes by saying, "India's Americanization" has been a "wonderful thing" as it has begun the "process of dismantling an old and often repressive order." But he worries about what will replace that order. "The American promise of renewal and reinvention is deeply seductive - but, as I have learned since coming back home, it is also profoundly menacing" he writes. 
Read full story here. 

        
Newswallah: Bharat Edition
        
Scenes From a Dying Empire
        
Living in Both, and Neither
        
Where is India's Steve Jobs?
        
What Does Your Car Say About You?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRENDS (73%); COLD WAR (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%) America; India; Kapur, Akash; Economic Conditions and Trends; Starbucks Corporation

ORGANIZATION: Starbucks Corporation

PERSON: Kapur, Akash

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (74%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012

 
