

1 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Bitter Harvest

BYLINE: By David Kusnet; David Kusnet, a visiting fellow at the Economic Policy Institute, was chief speechwriter for President Clinton from 1992 to 1994.

 BODY:

WITH THESE HANDS
 The Hidden World of Migrant Farmworkers Today.
 By Daniel Rothenberg.
 Illustrated. 334 pp. New York:
 Harcourt Brace & Company. $28. 
 When it comes to the farm workers' plight, the union organizer Ernesto Galarza once said that the nation's conscience "flickered and died down like a firefly." Daniel Rothenberg's "With These Hands" seeks to reawaken the public concern that once burned bright.
From a century ago, when California growers hired Asian immigrants to harvest their crops, the fruits and vegetables Americans eat have been picked by social and economic outcasts. Over the years, farm owners turned to poor whites (including Depression-era refugees from the Dust Bowl who were disparagingly called Okies), poor blacks and generations of immigrants from Mexico and, more recently, the Caribbean. Always, these workers have trekked across the countryside following the harvest, living in ramshackle housing, suffering from low wages and no benefits and enjoying few of the essentials most people take for granted, from clean drinking water to toilets on their work sites.
Yet efforts to improve conditions for farm workers seem to emerge only every 30 years. During the 1930's and 40's, agricultural and cannery workers conducted ambitious but ultimately unsuccessful organizing campaigns. Thirty years later the United Farm Workers, under the charismatic leadership of Cesar Chavez, organized some 80,000 members, building a base that has since eroded. In both eras, farm workers were supported by Americans whose consciences had been stirred by novels and news reports, from John Steinbeck's "Grapes of Wrath" to Edward R. Murrow's "Harvest of Shame."
Appearing just as farm workers are striving to rebuild their union, Rothenberg's book should play a modest but useful part in exposing the underground economy that produces much of our food. Approximately 1.5 million seasonal farm workers -- almost half of them migrants -- work intermittently for an average of $6,500 a year. Murrow and Steinbeck would have recognized the abuses that Rothenberg reports: piecework that pays less than the minimum wage, workers housed in chicken coops and herded across the countryside by unscrupulous labor contractors, work camps in the rural South where poor blacks are confined in conditions recalling sharecropping and slavery.
A former legal services aide in Florida's farm country, Rothenberg conducted over 250 interviews with farm workers, contractors, growers, government investigators and union organizers, and his most moving passages are those where people relate their own stories in their own words. Often, there's plain-spoken poetry amid the poverty and pain. A contractor who was once a farm worker says she tells her daughter, "I was never a child." A migrant laborer recalls that he began drinking "to feel better, so as not to think so much."
This is oral history at its best, but "With These Hands" displays the genre's weaknesses as well as its strengths. Rothenberg's treatment of the larger context for the farm workers' plight is sketchy and repetitive, and the book would have benefited from greater explanation and analysis.
Rothenberg could have done more to emphasize the extent to which farm workers have been marginalized by design. In 1935, Congress excluded them from the National Labor Relations Act, which guaranteed most workers the right to organize. From 1942 through 1964, the "bracero" program admitted more than four million guest workers, providing agribusiness with a steady supply of low-wage labor and isolating these workers from the mainstream economy.
If there is an implicit message to this worthwhile survey of America's most exploited workers, it is that somehow their isolation must end. But in the face of employer opposition, episodic public concern, ineffective Government regulation and even attempts in Congress to revive the bracero program, this effort will not be easy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WITH THESE HANDS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARCOURT BRACE & CO (91%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AGRICULTURE; MIGRANT LABOR FARM LABOR (96%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); HISTORY (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LITERATURE (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); 

PERSON: ROTHENBERG, DANIEL; KUSNET, DAVID DANIEL ROTHENBERG (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



2 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: Sparring for Liberty

BYLINE: By Pauline Maier; Pauline Maier's latest book is "American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence."

 BODY:

THE STORY OF AMERICAN FREEDOM
 By Eric Foner.
 Illustrated. 422 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95. 
 Most Americans understand the history of their freedom in an uncomplicated way: the Founding Fathers laid down principles of American liberty that their descendants have been applying ever since, steadily "augmenting the happiness and value of life to all people of all colors everywhere," as Abraham Lincoln put it.
Eric Foner disagrees. "The story of American freedom," he says, "is not simply a saga of a fixed set of rights to which one group after another has gained access," but "a tale of debates, disagreements and struggles" with lots of bumps and wrong turns along the way. Moreover, American freedom itself is "not a single idea" but a "complex of values" that have changed over time, taking on meanings unknown to Jefferson and his contemporaries. Yet freedom, he says, provides a unifying thread for our national experience.
Foner, the DeWitt Clinton Professor of History at Columbia University, presents "The Story of American Freedom" as an answer to those who say that the study of our history has become "so fragmented and trivialized that it is no longer possible to view American society whole." But an account of the American past using freedom as an "organizing theme" needs to be written in "new ways," he says, showing how the "universalities" of our political culture were constructed so that they benefited some Americans and excluded others, and how freedom as we know it is a product of protracted struggles by those who were once excluded -- particularly workers, women and racial minorities -- to win access to its blessings.
The book's strongest claim to distinction lies, however, not in its approach but in its succinct, information-packed, wonderfully readable account of the twists and turns in 20th-century American history, which claims about a quarter of the book's chronological range but over half its basic text. In little more than 200 pages, Foner traces the development of American freedom through a time that saw a fundamental reconsideration of the relationship between liberty and the state, the "birth of civil liberties," dramatic changes in the status of women, a substantial dismantling of institutionalized racism and the arrival of multiculturalism. He covers that story capaciously, explaining critical economic, social, political and legal developments, and he draws on a large cast of characters, from Samuel Gompers and W. E. B. Du Bois through Margaret Sanger and Franklin Roosevelt to Friedrich A. Hayek, Milton Friedman and Ronald Reagan, all of whose places in the narrative are briefly but usefully described. That makes "The Story of American Freedom" an excellent choice for serious readers tired of pretending they know more about contemporary history than they do but unwilling to plow through a library of books to solve the problem.
Foner summarizes earlier periods of American history, upon which much of his previous writing focused, with far less detail. Only one of 13 chapters examines the "birth of American freedom" in Britain and in colonial and revolutionary America, although a second addresses the issue of slavery in the early republic. During the American Revolution, he says, colonists abandoned narrow claims to "British freedom" and adopted instead the "language of natural rights and universal liberty." American citizenship was nonetheless confined to whites: as the nation's first Attorney General, Edmund Randolph, put it, slaves were not "constituent members of our society."
The obvious inconsistency between the country's public commitment to human freedom and its system of black chattel slavery did, however, produce a late-18th-century emancipation movement, which was confined to the Northern states and a set of slaveholders in the upper South who voluntarily freed their slaves. As a result, the United States acquired a community of free blacks who became the nation's most ardent critics of slavery and, with white abolitionist allies, advocates of a genuinely universal, color-blind American liberty. Their opponents also saw themselves as defenders of liberty, which for them centered upon the sanctity of property rights, including property in men.
With the Union victory in the Civil War, the "abolitionist vision" triumphed and "liberty became a universal principle" that crossed racial lines to the benefit of not just blacks but all Americans. "Slavery" quickly became a powerful metaphor for those seeking the "emancipation" of workers or women. However, the full impact of the war's outcome was felt, Foner says, only in the 20th century, when the Supreme Court began using the 14th Amendment (1868), which prohibited states from abridging "the privileges and immunities of citizens" or denying them "the equal protection of the law," to force general compliance with the Bill of Rights. That document finally became what it had never been before, a powerful guarantee of civil liberties against violations by not just the Federal Government but also the states and, beginning in the 1930's, private organizations as well.
In addition, the Civil War brought a shift "from antebellum anti-institutionalism . . . to a state-centered vision" of reform that, again, would be fully realized only much later, after overcoming a powerful movement in the opposite direction. In the late 19th century, "classical liberals" committed to limited government and laissez-faire economics used the 14th Amendment not to protect black rights, its original purpose, but to promote "the unfettered operations of the capitalist marketplace." The "fetters" they opposed included laws regulating working conditions and collective bargaining, which some employers described as "an infringement of personal liberty and a menace to the institutions of a free people." Industrial workers, who needed unions to acquire bargaining power comparable to that of their employers, had a different notion of liberty.
So did sociologists like Lester Ward, who argued that in the modern world "individual freedom can only come through social regulation." Under the influence of 20th-century writers like Herbert Croly and, above all, in the hands of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, "liberalism" was redefined as a commitment to "an activist, socially conscious state" that worked for civil rights and racial equality as well as economic democracy. Or was governmental "planning for freedom" an oxymoron, as the influential Austrian-born British economist Friedrich Hayek argued in 1944, since "planning leads to dictatorship"?
Similar disagreements weave through the story of 20th-century freedom. Did the maternalist welfare legislation of the early 20th century promote women's freedom or institutional gender inequality? Was the black power movement of the 1960's a step toward or away from the integrated, egalitarian society that most civil rights workers hoped to establish? Anomalies and contradictions also proliferated, particularly in wartime. The American struggle to "make the world safe for democracy" in World War I let loose an orgy of repression and racial violence at home. In World War II, the United States again fought for freedom but violated the civil liberties of those West Coast Japanese-Americans who were herded into internment camps. The nation's cold war campaign against Soviet "slavery" made some of the greatest tyrants part of the "free world" and led to extraordinary violations of Americans' right of free speech in the name of anti-Communism.
No separate conclusion summarizes the meaning of the story. Foner reveals his political sympathies only in the closing paragraphs of an even-handed final chapter on contemporary "conservative freedom" and in occasional judgments within the text, like his endorsement of the 1962 Port Huron statement of student radicals as having been written in "the language of Jefferson and Emerson, of Garrison, Debs and Dewey." Or does the whole structure of the book reflect his politics? "The Story of American Freedom" is perhaps less an example of "new ways" to study the past than a familiar left-wing approach to American history. The left, it is often said, dwells on conflict, contradictions and the "underside" of American history, while the right seeks out consensus and achievement, the stuff of celebration. Conflict and consensus, however, go together, since it's difficult to have a really good fight without shared premises.
The question here is whether there have been more enduring conceptions of American freedom than Foner allows. Consider, for example, the beliefs he attributes to early-20th-century immigrants who considered the United States a "land of freedom" because here men were "equal before the law, could worship as they pleased, enjoyed economic opportunity" and were free from "oppressive social hierarchies." Each item on that list had roots in the Revolutionary era, when the meaning and practical implications of freedom were already the subject of intense debate. In fact, the persistence of both ideals and conflict is not surprising. Principles remain separate only in the abstract; when applied to real life, they have a tendency to interfere with one another, raising issues of balance and choice. Abstract principles of liberty are also notorious for undermining practices that the first asserters of those principles consider beyond criticism, inspiring new divisions over new causes.
Anxious to avoid reading history backwards, Foner underplays the revolutionary origins of American ideas of freedom, but the characters in his story did not. They continually cited what "those who won our independence believed" to support their positions or to criticize those of others. Devotion to a shared (if continually reinterpreted) 18th-century tradition gave some bounds to Americans' debates over the meaning of liberty and suggests that what Foner describes as novel developments were often understood as efforts to eliminate hypocrisy by reconciling practice with principle, or to adapt older ideals to novel situations. "Reconstruction represented less a fulfillment of the Revolution's principles," he says, "than a radical repudiation of the nation's actual practice for the previous seven decades." Couldn't it be both?
In the end, however, it's hard to disagree with either Foner's assertion that the specific content of American freedom has changed -- George Washington, after all, lost little sleep over gay rights -- or his description of the process by which those changes occurred. Dissent is the way American freedom has been defined, extended and, indeed, kept alive far longer than the founders thought possible. The greatest danger to liberty lies, as Justice Brandeis said, in an "inert people" -- in a silent, self-absorbed citizenry that doesn't care enough to join the argument.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: STORY OF AMERICAN FREEDOM, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); WOMEN (75%); LITERATURE (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); RACE & RACISM (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: FONER, ERIC; MAIER, PAULINE RONALD REAGAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



3 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2235 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Quarter and its Crown Jewel

BYLINE: By ANN PRINGLE-HARRIS; ANN PRINGLE-HARRIS visits Paris regularly.

 BODY:
JUST as there are New Yorkers who don't know the wonders of Brooklyn and the Bronx, so there are Parisians who know nothing of the 19th arrondissement, a district with an eventful history, colorful neighborhoods and -- its crown jewel -- Les Buttes-Chaumont, one of Paris's loveliest parks.
Situated at the northeastern edge of the city, the 19th became a part of Paris proper through the annexation in 1860 of the village of La Villette and the Commune of Belleville. Both territories -- Belleville being rough and hilly and La Villette flat with rich sources of water -- were, in pre-Revolutionary France, stopping points where a fee had to be paid to the king before wine and produce were permitted to pass into the city. All of that ended during Napoleon's time, but not before enterprising citizens had scaled fortified walls and dug underground passageways in order to move goods into Paris without paying the hated fees. 
 A couple of hundred years ago there were fertile grain fields on the plain of La Villette and vineyards on the hills of Buttes-Chaumont. But Buttes-Chaumont's principal source of wealth during the late 18th and early 19th centuries was quarrying. One part of the district was named, and is still called, the Quartier d'Amerique because so much of the gypsum quarried there was sent to America. Local legend has it that gypsum from the quarter was used in the foundation of the White House.
By the mid-19th century, quarrying in the quarter had largely ended, and the former quarrying sites had become a haunt for vagabonds and derelicts, as well as a source of noxious emanations from local dumping grounds. It was an unfortunate comedown for a formerly prosperous working-class neighborhood, but there was a happy ending. The city planners, chief among them Baron Georges Eugene Haussmann, the genius behind Paris's grand boulevards and its urban vistas, decided to create a new park. At the time, the aim was to sanitize the district. Clean air, open spaces, hygienic conditions -- these were what the park was to give to the city's residents.
From the beginning, though, the 62-acre park had a magic about it, a magic that artists in particular recognized. At its opening in 1867, its heights and vistas were compared to the stanzas of a beautiful poem. In the early 1920's, the writer Louis Aragon, night-prowling with his fellow surrealist Andre Breton, wrote that the very name Buttes-Chaumont evoked a "mirage" that held them "spellbound."
Finding this mirage not only real but also open at night, Aragon proclaimed it "an oasis in a sinister working-class neighborhood," a "mad eyrie which sprang from the head of an architect influenced alike by . . . Jean-Jacques Rousseau and by the economic conditions of Parisian life." In his book "Le Paysan de Paris," Aragon develops within the framework of this night visit to Buttes-Chaumont his theories of the fluid intermingling of nature, art, fantasy and the unfettered imagination.
In none of my exploratory walks in June through the Buttes-Chaumont district did I find a sinister working-class neighborhood. I found instead the mix of residential and commercial streets common to outlying arrondissements, with dwellings that ranged from handsome turn-of-the-century apartment-house blocks to cottage-size houses whose small gardens open onto cobblestoned alleyways just about wide enough for one car. Some are ivy-covered, some have trellised rose gardens or wisteria arbors; all have the charm of the country in an urban venue.
To stroll through some of these mews -- they are called Villas -- walk along the Rue du General Brunet, the Rue de Mouzaia and the Rue Miguel-Hidalgo, near the Botzaris entrance to the park, and you will find at least a dozen of them. The neighborhood is part of the Quartier d'Amerique, but the street names have various associations. The Villas Emile-Loubet, Sadi-Carnot and Felix-Faure are named for former presidents of the French Republic. Mouzaia commemorates a conflict between the French and Muslim forces of Algeria in 1839. Joined to one another in a Y shape in 1889, the Rues Liberte, Egalite and Fraternite commemorate a centennial that needs no identification.
Venturing into other neighborhoods that border the park, a guide to the 19th arrondissement tucked under my arm, I came upon St.-Serge, a Russian Orthodox Church at 93 Rue de Crimee. The building was acquired by the Orthodox Church during the influx of Russian emigres to Paris after the First World War and the Russian Revolution. When I arrived, in the early evening, a young man was retouching the splendid painted wood porch and double staircase leading up to the sanctuary. Inside, I was dazzled by the iconostasis of gold-haloed saints, by richly painted walls and ceiling and windows with a folk art feeling in bright blue, red, green and yellow. There was also a lovely harmonic hum whose source I couldn't find until I moved toward the altar and saw on my left a trio of men who obviously formed a choir. I had happily stumbled upon a vespers service.
On the same property, an institute of theology was established in 1925. Courses are taught in French and Russian, and graduates have gone on to become priests, bishops and monks in many parts of the world.
The prime attraction of the 19th arrondissement, of course, is the Parc des Buttes-Chaumont. It is at once wild and sequestered, yet is served by four Metro stops; a refuge from buses and street noise that is nevertheless bound on all sides by residential and commercial avenues to which the park's several gates give easy access. Step into the park and you get a sense of having strayed into one of those picturesque landscapes dear to the hearts of 19th-century romantics -- yet the city's muffled hum remains a reassuring presence. You aren't lost, you've simply been temporarily spirited away.
Part of the ambitious plan behind the park was to conserve some of the towering gypsum deposits remaining on the site and convert them into the natural-seeming precipices that visitors climb today. Indeed, the entire plan for the park was to take what nature provided and elevate it into art. Engineering and landscaping the site under Haussmann's supervision, Adolphe Alphand and Jean-Pierre Barillet-Deschamps constructed a three-tiered cascade from on-site rocks and gypsum, troughs for flowing rivulets of water and paths that lead strollers upward to fresh breezes and glorious views.
The park is shaped somewhat like a crescent that has been widened and squared off at one end. Near its center is a lake, and in the middle of the lake is an island, accessible by two bridges. One stands 88 feet above ground level, a noteworthy height in a low-profile city, and promptly acquired the nickname le pont des suicides. Today, a guard rail protects against leaps or falls.
On my first visit to Buttes-Chaumont I took a leisurely walk around the lake, wondering how to reach the belvedere and its small Greek-style temple. Since I could see people up there, I knew there must be steps, and a waiter from a nearby restaurant showed me where they were. I dutifully climbed the 84 stone steps to the belvedere and the 12 cement steps leading to the top of the temple, looked around and instantly forgot about soreness of muscle and shortness of breath. To my left were the domes of Sacre Coeur, dark silhouettes against an azure-blue sky. From that vantage point, the park seemed round and so did the city, and I stood at the very center of it.
As its planners intended, Buttes-Chaumont combines natural beauty and human ingenuity. In the grotto, once a major quarry site, water crashes from a height of about 100 feet over rocks both real and artificial -- a wall of water dropping into a pool below. If you stand in the grotto and close your eyes, you can easily imagine yourself in a cool, deep cavern, your skin freshened by a light spray from the falling water. Glancing up, you see stalactites that look the way stalactites should look -- but they are of cement. Similarly, running your hand over the rough-barked branches that fence in some walking paths, you realize that you are fingering Art Nouveau branches fashioned from cement. The seemingly artless alpine look of the park, its hills and valleys, actually took several years of hard labor to create; the natural terrain was just a starting point.
The original buildings that remain in the park -- chalet-style guardhouses at the gated entrances and some rustic-looking refreshment stands -- enhance this illusion of a mountain village at the edge of Paris. So does the open-air Theatre Anatole just inside the park entrance at the Place Armand-Carrel. If you are in Paris any time from April through October, you can see Grand-Guignol puppet performances under a striped tent on weekends and school holidays when the weather permits. On the day I visited, children between the ages of about 3 and 10 were lined up awaiting the 3 o'clock performance of "Les Fantomes du Chateau." Wandering inadvertently into a space reserved for unescorted youngsters, I was politely shown to a back bench, where I enjoyed the audience as much as the show. The children screamed directions at the puppet actors, shouted their answers to questions from the stage, laughed at the stupid, greedy servant and giggled nervously at the white-sheeted phantom. They gave new meaning to the term interactive theater. And this kind of theater has a bonus for apprentices in the language: the plots are simple, the words follow the action, and the diction is loud and clear.
IF a shrug is the correct Gallic response to today's fitness craze, Buttes-Chaumont residents haven't caught on. On early-evening visits to the park (the place easily becomes habit-forming) I regularly saw runners exchanging sweaty handshakes and arranging their next meeting. I saw groups doing calisthenics, and serious walkers along with those who were strolling with their children or exercising their pets. Signs at the entrance to the park announced races for various age groups.
The 19th arrondissement doesn't specialize in lavish restaurants, but visitors needn't go hungry. There are pleasant neighborhood bistros and, in the park, stands that sell crepes, waffles, ice cream, snacks and cold drinks. The Weber Cafe, on the Allee de la Cascade, serves teas, drinks and light meals, and the Pavillon du Lac has two pretty lakeside terraces where food and drinks are served, when the weather permits, from breakfast through lunch and up till 7 P.M. For formal dining, the Pavillon Puebla, just inside the park entrance near the Bolivar Metro stop, is popular. It serves Catalan cuisine in an attractive Second Empire setting, but the place to dine in fair weather is its two outdoor terraces, shaded and inviting with their umbrellas and greenery. Atmosphere is part of the charm here, but the food is good. I enjoyed my baked calamari in shellfish sauce with saffron rice and a gateau de riz (I'd call it rice pudding) with orange confit sauce.
If it's a quick drink or caffeine fix you have in mind, head for the Place Rhin-et-Danube, a 10- or 15-minute walk east from the park on Rue Miguel-Hidalgo. Named for battles fought in Germany near the end of World War II, in which the French First Army took part, the place brings into focus bits of the district's past. In its center, a statue of a powerful woman striding along with a sheaf of wheat under her arm symbolizes the area's agricultural history but also the quarry workers who later brought prosperity to the quarter. Facing the statue is Le Cafe Parisien, with its small, companionable terrace and supercharged coffee. It's a neighborhood favorite whose decor -- old hollywood movie posters -- befits its location in the Quartier d'Amerique of Les Buttes-Chaumont.
 
A poet's park
Buttes-Chaumont and Botzaris are the closest Metro stops to the park; Bolivar and Laumiere are within walking distance.
The park is open from 6:45 A.M. to 9 P.M. in winter, 6:45 A.M. to 11 P.M. in summer.
 
Exploring
 Information on guided visits in English may be obtained through the Paris Tourist Bureau, (33-1) 49.52.53.54, 127 Avenue des Champs-Elysees.
Travelers who know some French will find an excellent walker's guide to the park, with information about the surrounding district and suggested itineraries at the visitors center of the 19th Arrondissement Mairie, (33-1) 44.52.28.80, 5-7 Place Armand Carrel.
"Le Guide du Promeneur: 19th Arrondissement" by Elisabeth Philipp (Editions Parigramme), a walker's guide in French, is available at F.N.A.C. stores ($16.35).
 The Theatre Anatole, (33-1) 43.98.10.95, is just inside the entrance to the park at the Place
Armand-Carrel. Grand Guignol puppet performances are given Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays and school holidays from April to October (when the weather permits) at 3 and 6:30 P.M. and at 4 P.M. in July and August.
 
Where to Eat
Le Pavillon Puebla, (33-1) 42.08.92.62, near the angle of the park where the Rue Botzaris and the Rue Simon Bolivar meet, serves lunch and dinner every day except Sundays, Mondays and holidays. Three-course meals without wine start at about $35.
Le Cafe Parisien, (33-1) 42.06.02.75, 2 Place Rhin-et-Danube, serves drinks, sandwiches and salads until 2 A.M. every day except Sunday; an espresso costs about $1.75 ($1.10 at the bar).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jogging along the lake in the park of Buttes-Chaumont, designed by Haussmann more than a century ago. At Le Pavillon Puebla, which serves Catalan cuisine, just inside the park. In St.-Serge, a Russian Orthodox church in the 19th. (Photographs by Owen Franken for The New York Times)(pg. 10); Villas near the Botzaris entrance to the park lend an air of the country to the neighborhood. (Owen Franken for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 
Map of Paris highlighting Parc des Buttes-Chaumont.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LES BUTTES-CHAUMONT (71%); RUE MIGUEL-HIDALGO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LES BUTTES-CHAUMONT PARK (PARIS, FRANCE); PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); POETRY (63%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: PRINGLE-HARRIS, JANN LOUIS MARIE ANTOINE ALFRED ARAGON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



4 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN?;
Hawaii

BYLINE: By JOCELYN FUJII; JOCELYN FUJII lives in Honolulu.

 BODY:
When leaf-peeping northeasterners begin retiring their binoculars for the year, Hawaii residents start dusting theirs off. November opens the unofficial season of rubbernecking, a time when migrating whales and big-wave riders turn the ocean into the site of the islands' favorite spectator sports.
Unlike the economy and the weather, the humpback whales can be counted on. They return in late November and stay until April or May, breaching, spouting, mating and calving spectacularly in the island waters that serve as their refuge from the icy ones they have left behind in Alaska. As for surfing, winter is its zenith, a time when "pray for surf" is the prevailing mantra and waves aren't big unless they're 15 feet or higher. On the north shore of Oahu, the coastline becomes theater: no wave is too large for the world's most daring and accomplished surfers, who look like specks in the winter swell. 
 These attractions are free, a considerable plus in a state reeling with economic woes. The disappearance of Japanese investment and the decline in tourism have come on the heels of widespread plantation shutdowns, calling upon the adaptive spirit of Hawaii's people.
Attractive rates in hotel, air fare and travel packages can be found in November and the first three weeks of December. In this shoulder season (high season begins around Christmas and lasts until mid-April), the islands are less crowded and the weather, as in late spring, is at its best, averaging in the mid-70's -- although several degrees warmer on the Kona-Kohala coast.
With events from "The Nutcracker" to the Hawaii International Film Festival, culture addicts, like surfers and luau aficionados, have a full plate in the weeks to come.
 
Events
Josef Albers, Sol Lewitt, Andy Warhol, Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Richard Diebenkorn, Roy Lichtenstein and Claes Oldenburg are among the 40 artists represented in "First Decade: Highlights from the Contemporary Museum's Collection," opening Friday and running through Jan. 3 at the Contemporary Museum, 2411 Makiki Heights Drive, Honolulu. Robert Motherwell's "Elegy With Rice Paper and Blue," from his series "Elegies to the Spanish Republic," is among the works not previously shown here. The museum is set in a garden in the hills overlooking the city. Open Tuesday to Sunday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Admission: $5. (808) 526-0232.
In Hilo, on the Big Island, the film critic Roger Ebert and Nadia Tass, an Australian director, will help reopen the historic Palace Theater, where Ms. Tass's film "Amy" will be shown on Nov. 13, 38 Haili Street at 6:30 P.M. as part of the Hawaii International Film Festival. More than 150 films will be shown from Nov. 6 to 19 throughout the Islands. Renovation of the 73-year-old neo-classical theater is not complete, but this will be the first screening of films there since 1982. Admission is $10 for the "Amy" premiere, otherwise $5; (808) 528-4433 or (800) 752-8193.
A storm in the Aleutians would be great news for big-wave riders and spectators hoping for epic El Nino-generated surf at this year's Vans G-Shock Triple Crown of Surfing Series, from Nov. 5 through Dec. 20 at Haleiwa Beach, Sunset, and Pipeline on Oahu's North Shore. Top professional surfers will compete for $1 million in men's and women's events. Free admission; (808) 637-6376 for daily recorded information.
The grape, the cowboy and good food are the topics at Mauna Kea Resort's annual Winter Wine Escape, Nov. 12 to 14 at 62-100 Mauna Kea Beach Drive, and at Hapuna Beach Prince Hotel, 62-100 Kaunaoa Beach Drive, on the Big Island's Kohala Coast. Mainland and Hawaii chefs and nearly 70 vintners present tastings and feasts. In this Year of the Paniolo honoring the Hawaiian cowboy, the Parker Ranch in Waimea will be one of the sites. Admission: $25 to $125; accommodations packages available; (800) 882-6060.
Ballet Hawaii will present "The Nutcracker" Dec. 18 to 20 at the Blaisdell Concert Hall, 777 Ward Avenue, with guest artists from the American Ballet Theater. Admission: $15 to $35; (808) 591-2211.
 
Sightseeing
Good timing, powerful binoculars and quick reflexes (to pull over if you're driving, or to drop whatever you're doing if you're not) are useful when humpbacks appear, most reliably along the west and south Maui shoreline. Favorable vantage points along the west shore include Pap awai Point, McGregor Point scenic overlook, Launiupoko State Wayside and Wahikuli State Wayside; on the south shore, Wailea Beach Park and the dining rooms of the deluxe Wailea resorts. On Oahu, Makapuu Point, Waikiki and the Kaena Point Trail on the leeward coastline can be center stage. The Pacific Whale Foundation, 101 North Kihei Road, supports its research with daily whale-watching cruises beginning Dec. 1 on Maui, $22 to $31; (800) 942-5311.
At the Maui Ocean Center, a new five-acre marine park at 192 Maalaea Road, life-size whale models are part of the 60 exhibits. Jaws drop during shark feeding and in the 54-foot walk-through tunnel aquarium. Admission: $17.50, $12 for children; open daily 9 A.M. to 5 P.M., (808) 270-7000.
Sections of a 22.5-mile network of ditches, flumes and tunnels built in 1906 to irrigate sugar plantations have been transformed into an easy, meandering waterway for kayaking. Guides with the Kohala Mountain Kayak Cruise explain the region's history while gliding in the narrow outdoor flumes that traverse rain forest and stands of wild ginger. Headquarters are in Hawi, at the junction of Highways 270 and 250. Cost for the 75-minute paddle: $75, $55 ages 5 to 18; (808) 889-6922.
The Old Lahaina Luau on Maui -- in moving to a larger oceanfront site, 1251 Front Street in Lahaina six months ago -- has reinvented itself authentically in a genre rife with cliche. At sunset, guests sit at tables or on lauhala fiber mats on the ground in front of a grass-mound stage. The program offers intelligent narration and excellent ancient hula (the absence of fire dancing is noted but not lamented). There are no watered-down mai tais and, like the atmosphere, the food is authentic Hawaiian, and delicious. Admission: $65, $30 for children; (808) 667-1998.
On Oahu, Pearl Harbor's newest resident, the 887-foot Missouri, where Gen. Douglas MacArthur accepted Japan's surrender, is being scrubbed, buffed and prepared for its opening in January as a national memorial and museum. It is moored near the Arizona, sunk during the Pearl Harbor attack. Guided tours will be $14; (808) 545-2263.
 
Where to Stay
The new Waimea Brewing Company, at Waimea Plantation Cottages, 9400 Kaumualii Highway, Waimea, may seem out of character in a retro-historic plantation village, but in the dusty, dry plains of this west Kauai town, there's something to be said for cold beer. The 48 authentic plantation cottages from the early 1900's were moved from a nearby plantation and faithfully restored and equipped with verandas and full kitchens. For those heading for the Waimea Canyon and Kokee State Park, this is the last hostelry before the 4,000-foot ascent. Rates: $170 to $500; (808) 338-1625, fax (808) 338-2338.
On the Hana coast in east Maui, a three-hour drive from Kahului Airport, the once musty Heavenly Hana Inn, 4155 Hana Highway, reopened in June behind its signature bamboo gate as a sleek, stunning Japanese-style hostelry of three suites under one roof but each with separate entrance. Lush gardens surround the studio and suites and the grand dining room, featuring exotic woods and impressive craftsmanship. Rates: $100 to $235; (808) 248-8442.
Shipman House Bed and Breakfast Inn, 131 Kaiulani Street, Hilo, on the Big Island, won the 1998 Historic Preservation Award from the Historic Hawaii Foundation. It recently completed the renovation of its conservatory, which will serve as the meeting room in this 100-year-old Victorian mansion. Rates in the three rooms and a guest cottage with two units are $130 to $150; (800) 627-8447, fax (808) 934-8002.
Budget: Scarcely a year old, the Old Wailuku Inn at Ulupono, 2199 Kahookele Street, Wailuku, helps make central Maui a viable destination on this shoreline-crazy island. Situated near Iao Valley, the Hawaii Nature Center, a block of antiques shops, and mom-and-pop restaurants, this two-story, seven-room inn, built in 1924, is filled with vintage Hawaiiana. Notable features include the original ohia and eucalyptus floors. Rates: $120 to $180; (808) 244-5897, fax (808) 242-9600.
Luxury: With lava from an 1801 flow as its foundation, it was no surprise that Hualalai Resort, Kaahumanu Highway, Kaupulehu, Kona, on the Big Island, which contains the 243-room Four Seasons Resort Hualalai, has added hot stone therapy to its spa offerings. Smooth stream rocks are heated and placed on massage points. The low-rise, bungalow-style resort's educational programs for guests, including celestial navigation, are firmly anchored in Hawaiian culture. Room-car or room-breakfast packages are available for $390 to $930; (808) 325-8000, fax (808) 325-8100.
With all 191 guest rooms and three suites fully renovated last fall, Kapalua Bay Hotel, 1 Bay Drive, Kapalua, Maui, has awakened from a long slumber. Eco-tourists love the hiking and environmental progams of the Kapalua Nature Society, based in this quietly luxurious resort. Rates from $275; (800) 367-8000, fax (808) 669-4694.
 
Where to Eat
Those expecting attitude at the newly opened Neiman Marcus restaurant, Mariposa, 1450 Ala Moana Boulevard, Honolulu, will be pleasantly surprised -- efforts to integrate casualness with fine dining have succeeded. Lanai seating offers great views of park and beach, and the American and regional menu highlights local ingredients. The excellent wine list (38 by the glass) has good prices. Dinner for two with wine, about $80; (808) 951-3420.
Hoku's at the Kahala Mandarin Oriental Hotel, 5000 Kahala Avenue, Honolulu, has a new culinary team: executive chef Markus Greiner, formerly of the Regent Hotel in Hong Kong, and executive sous-chef Wayne Hirabayashi, fomerly of the Halekulani Hotel. They have been luring new diners to the elegant ocean-view dining room, and keeping the faithful, with favorites like grilled misoyaki vegetables with taro gnocchi and deep-fried whole island fish. Dinner for two with wine, $130; (808) 739-8777.
It has been a stellar lobster season on the north shore of Kauai, where Roadrunner Bakery and Cafe, 2430 Oka Street, Kilauea, also features organic local vegetables, 30 types of chilies, and pork, fish and free-range chicken. Lobster fajitas ($16.95) and tacos prove that lobsters can be fresh, good and cheap. Dinner for two (bring your own wine) is about $35; (808) 828-8226.
Sansei Seafood Restaurant and Sushi Bar, 115 Bay Drive, Kapalua, Maui, has turned the formerly moribund Kapalua Shops into a culinary hot spot. Dishes include Asian rock shrimp cake, shrimp-nori ravioli and tradition-defying sushi with tangy sauces and unorthodox pairings. Dinner for two with sake, about $50; (808) 669-6286.
In whale-watching territory on the south shore, Nick's Fishmarket Maui opened two months ago in the striking Kea Lani Hotel, 4100 Wailea Alanui, Wailea. Fresh seafood includes succulent Tristan lobster and elegant snapper in several preparations. Dinner for two with wine, about $120; (808) 879-7224.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fifth hole of the Bay Course at the Kapalua Bay Hotel, Maui. A surfer at Pipeline, Oahu. At the Maui Ocean Center.
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Hawaii. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Times Books World Weather Guide, State of Hawaii Data Book, local businesses)
 
Map of Hawaii, and the sorrounding islands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (97%); 

CITY: HILO, HI, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAUI OCEAN CENTER (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAUI OCEAN CENTER (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (97%); HAWAII, USA (97%); HILO, HI, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS MARINE MAMMALS (90%); SURFING (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); FILM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); FESTIVALS (86%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (86%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CHRISTMAS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); TOUR PACKAGES (66%); MOVIE REVIEWS (64%); THEATER (54%); 

PERSON: FUJII, JOCELYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



5 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2367 words

HEADLINE: A Winter Haven for Birds And Frontier Historians

BYLINE: By ROB NIXON; ROB NIXON is the author of "Dreambirds," about ostriches and desert places, to be published by Doubleday/Anchor in England in the spring.

 BODY:
BOB MILES, an Arizona Game and Fish agent, peered at his watch and announced with the authority of an air-traffic controller: "They should be taking off in a few minutes. It's almost 7:15." I was standing with a group of 20 other visitors on the edge of Willcox Playa, a 50-square-mile dead lake in southeast Arizona. We were waiting for first light and the first cranes.
Meanwhile, in the predawn frost, my toes were threatening to secede. Somewhere out there, 10,000 sandhill cranes had spent the last 12 hours standing in two inches of icy water. I asked Bob about crane frostbite. "Ah," he explained, "cranes have a shunt system that allows them to shut off the blood to their feet." That's an advantage they enjoy over their coyote enemies: "Coyotes don't like to get their feet wet." 
 The light began to turn pinky yellow above the Chiricahuas, which rise to over 9,000 feet near the Arizona-New Mexico border. On cue, the 7:15 cranes took to the air, cruising low overhead, long necks stretched forward, seven-foot wings spread wide. I could almost feel the draft from their wings as they passed, thousands of them, kar-r-r-r-o-o-o, kar-r-r-r-o-o-o-ing above us, all rolling their r's like Scots.
I had traveled to southeast Arizona for Wings Over Willcox, a three-day festival held each January to celebrate the region's remarkable natural and human history. Eight hundred visitors were in attendance. The cranes (which leave in March for Alaska, Canada and Siberia, returning in October) are the festival's principal attraction. But participants can choose from 18 half- or whole-day guided tours, focusing on everything from the area's bird life to its geology and frontier past.
Willcox itself, nine miles to the north, is an unassuming, raw-boned Western town of about 3,500. Founded in 1880 as a construction camp for the Southern Pacific Railroad, Willcox was soon shipping more cattle than any town in America, according to the Chamber of Commerce. But times have changed. The local economy now blends the old West with the new, relying on cattle, ecotourism, pistachios, hydroponic tomatoes, onions, a prison and, for their exotic leather, ostriches.
The town's being in the heart of Cochise County, about 80 miles east of Tucson, is its main appeal. Willcox is a place of confluence. It rests in the 100-mile-long Sulphur Springs Valley and is flanked by four ranges. On either side stretch two great deserts: the Sonoran and the more elevated Chihuahuan. These valley, desert and mountain corridors link Willcox to Mexico and give the local fauna and flora a subtropical dimension. They also create ideal circumstances for the cranes to congregate.
During my visit, I stayed at Muleshoe Ranch Preserve in preference to Willcox's chain motels. The Arizona Nature Conservancy, jointly with two Federal agencies, owns and operates Muleshoe, where accommodations consist of four renovated adobe casitas and (my choice) a two-room stone cabin beside a hot springs wash.
I have seldom been in a place so comfortable yet exquisitely remote. The nearest public telephone and store were back in Willcox, 30 juddery dirt miles to the east. But the tradeoff was considerable. During my time at Muleshoe, I didn't encounter another guest.
In a state where trees are as scarce as water, Muleshoe exudes abundance. Willows, Arizona sycamores, cottonwoods and scrub oaks line a latticework of streams. The growth attracts plants, birds and subtropical animals associated with Mexico. One morning, while wandering the dry washes, I disturbed a dozen javelina, 60-pound wild pigs. I stood quietly while they snuffled past, clicking their heels as they went.
Muleshoe's special allure is its two willow-shaded hot tubs -- simple galvanized-iron tanks that hold 115-degree water from the springs on the property. Their history goes back to 1875, when a rheumatic New Yorker, Dr. Glendys King, staked out a 160-acre homestead claim around the Muleshoe springs. Dr. King was shot in a boundary dispute before he could realize his fantasy of converting the property into a healing spa.
But when the cattle baron Henry Clay Hooker bought it in 1884, he started a newspaper trumpeting the miraculous powers of his springs. As enticements, Mr. Hooker added a croquet lawn, tennis courts and billiard tables. He buttonholed travelers alighting from the Willcox train and promised them quick cures for their pimples and dyspepsia.
In the closing years of the 19th century, Hooker's Hot Springs buzzed with 400 visitors each summer. But Western spoilers -- stagecoach robbers, rustlers, droughts and flash floods -- ruined Mr. Hooker's dream of turning Muleshoe into a badlands rendition of Baden-Baden in Germany.
As a birder, I was attracted first to Cochise County's ornithological riches: 500 bird types -- including 15 varieties of wintering hawks. I soon found equal pleasure, however, in the varied landscape and human history.
Around Willcox, frontier history gusts up from every gulch and gully. This is Geronimo, Buffalo soldier, Butterfield Trail and Wyatt Earp country. Behind the 19th-century Apache wars and the O.K. Corral shootout stands an older history of Mexican gold panners, 16th-century Spanish conquistadors, and Mogollon Indians. And behind them all stand the Clovis people, who inhabited the region at the end of the last ice age, preying on the mammoths, bison and camels that roamed Willcox Playa long before the cranes arrived.
I went to see some Clovis flint tools at the Amerind Foundation, 24 miles southwest of Willcox. Amerind is one of my favorite museums, almost as much for its location as for its stunning displays of American Indian cultures and histories. The foundation's Spanish Colonial Revival buildings -- miles from any other human habitation -- are humbled by the massive boulder formations of the surrounding Texas Canyon.
I have a fondness for experiencing history outdoors, so I took a trip offered through Wings Over Willcox to Fort Bowie, led by a National Park Service volunteer. Between 1862 and 1886, Fort Bowie served as the nerve center for United States military campaigns against the Chiricahua Apaches led first by Cochise and then Geronimo. The fort and Apache Pass are 36 miles east of Willcox, the last two on a washboarded dirt road. From there, we had to walk a hilly mile and a half to the ruins, passing through superb high desert country.
A recent notice at the trail head warned of several close encounters with mountain lions and advised visitors to carry a stick and not walk alone. The sign ended with the laconic reminder: "If attacked, remember to fight back aggressively." I made a mental note. Later, I learned from park rangers that chances of such an attack are slim but that turning your back and running is more dangerous than facing the animal.
Even in the absence of mountain lions, it was easy to see why Apache Pass gained a reputation as the most unnerving station on the 2,800-mile Butterfield Overland stage route, from St. Louis to San Francisco. With my eyes, I could follow bits of the old trail route. It threaded through ravines, meandering dry washes, rocky overhangs and sudden bends. This must have been formidable terrain for anyone to hold.
Fort Bowie's story is punctuated by kidnappings, ambushes, hangings, torture and decapitations, with unsteady truces in between. But like so much Western history, it is essentially the story of a water war -- the battle for Apache Spring.
En route to the fort ruins, our party passed the spring, a frail pool overhung with Arizona walnut trees. A quail covey was sipping there and flew off, clucking, as we approached. At this dry point in the year, the pool held no more water than would fill a few bathtubs. But the trickling spring flows incessantly, and so became a hallowed spot for the Apaches and a coveted one for white travelers crossing the desert.
The details in the landscape are deeply moving: the unimposing spring; the bleached gravestone marking the burial of Little Robe, Geronimo's son; the spot where four Apaches were hanged and their bodies dangled for four months. To the north stands the mountain where Geronimo had a vision that no soldier would ever kill him.
The National Park Service has discreetly laid out educational signs along the trail. Occasional small plaques mark historical sites and identify plants like barrel cactus, agave, Spanish bayonet and jumping cholla in this landscape of spears and thorns -- just enough quiet pointers to set the imagination on course.
The trail ends at the fort ruins, adobe stumps that resemble stained, uneven molars -- something like Capt. Thomas Roberts's false teeth, which were on display at the museum overlooking the fort. Captain Roberts (whose detachment was ambushed by Apaches in 1862) recorded in his diary that one night pack rats had carried off his dentures, which he'd left beside his bed. A hundred years later, archeologists reclaimed them from the rats and the ruins. They knew the dentures belonged to Captain Roberts because he'd received a bullet wound through the mouth that had left them distinctively rearranged.
From the fort, we could see the remnants of an old gold stamp mill. Far below, a Southern Pacific train sped toward New Mexico across the desert. A glossy raven was mobbing two golden eagles overhead, their wing-tips flaring against the sun.
A few days later, I drove deeper into the Chiricahuas, the most spectacular of the region's mountains. It was a bright, 70-degree January day, so I rolled down the car windows as I headed east. The rising road led me through scrub desert, then grassland, then up into pinon pine and juniper woodlands and on into fir and spruce. Just 40 miles from Willcox, I reached an elevation of 7,000 feet. Higher still, I would have entered alpine tundra. It felt otherworldly up there, as if I had driven in one hour from Mexico to Canada.
I had entered the sky islands, the lush border mountains that have enabled pioneering fauna and flora to venture north from the Mexican Sierra Madres. The human history resounded, too. I followed a foot trail through the rhyolite badlands, which for four centuries served as the Apaches' stronghold. That era ended with Geronimo's capture in 1886 and the tribe's deportation from this place -- which they called the Land of the Standing-Up Rocks -- to swampy Florida. The chilly air swirling around the Chiricahua peaks added to the ghosted feeling of the place.
On my final night in Cochise County, I paid a midnight visit to the Muleshoe hot tubs. I stripped down and sank into the solitude, thinking there aren't many places in America that feel more isolated today than a century ago. My mind raced ahead to the world awaiting me: icy streets, honking Broadway taxis. One breath and they were gone. What remained was the hooting of a great horned owl in a cottonwood, veined against a bright, star-crowded sky.
 
Where stagecoaches once stopped
Tucson's is the nearest airport to Willcox. For the 80-mile drive along Interstate 10 from Tucson to Willcox, I rented a car from Hertz, but all the major rental companies have outlets in Tucson.
 
Where to Stay
Muleshoe Ranch, on 48,120 acres owned and operated by the Nature Conservancy and the United States Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Managagement, is 30 miles northwest of Willcox. The five casitas, furnished with simple Southwestern elegance, cost $70 to $100 a night, double occupancy. They have private baths and kitchens; there is no restaurant and the closest shopping is in Willcox. Closed June, July and August. The hot tubs are for overnight guests only; phone and fax (520) 586-7072.
Triangle T Guest Ranch, Post Office Box 218, Dragoon, Ariz. 85609, is 23 miles southwest of Willcox, in the Texas Canyon area. The nine cabins -- all private baths, one with a kitchen -- cost $50 to $75 double occupancy. The restaurant serves sandwiches and meals ($12.95 and less); (520) 586-7533.
Chiricahua Foothills Bed-and-Breakfast, Dos Cabezas Route, Box 6310, Willcox, Ariz. 85643, is 35 miles east of town, on a working ranch by the national monument. The six rooms cost $65 a night, double occupancy, full breakfast included; (520) 824-3632.
 
Where to Eat
Restaurants in Willcox are modest and mostly routine. Rodney's, (520) 384-5180, a hole in the wall on North Railroad Avenue, offers hearty food (catfish, burritos, steak and shrimp, gumbo) for under $10. You can enjoy a meal at tables on the sidewalk or the back patio gazing out across the range. Open for lunch and dinner; closed Monday.
Other options include Solarium Dining Room and Hopi Room Lounge (steaks, seafood, Italian and Southwestern dishes, averaging $45 a couple for dinner, with drinks) at the Best Western Plaza Inn, on Rex Allen Drive; (520) 384-3556.
Also on the drive is the Plaza Restaurant, (520) 384-3819, which is open 24 hours and offers Mexican dishes, steaks and a salad bar. Dinner for two with a drink is about $20.
 
What to Do
The sixth annual Wings Over Willcox festival will be Jan. 15 to 17. Registration forms and tour schedules are available from the Willcox Chamber of Commerce and Agriculture, 1500 North Circle I Road, Willcox, Ariz. 85643; (800) 200-2272. Tours are first come, first served; they cost $15 to $40.
Chiricahua National Monument, (520) 824-3560, off Highways 186 and 181, 37 miles southeast of Willcox, has a scenic drive with commanding views of landmark peaks and desert valleys. Hiking trails range from a quarter mile to nine miles round trip. Park entrance costs $6, and the 25 campsites cost $8 a night. The visitors center is open 8 A.M. to 5 P.M.
Fort Bowie National Historic Site, (520) 847-2500, is at Apache Pass, 36 miles east of Willcox. The cavalry fort's ruins and the adjoining museum are open 8 A.M. to 5 P.M. daily except Christmas. Free.
Amerind Foundation Museum, Post Office Box 400, Dragoon, Ariz. 85609, (520) 586-3666, offers exhibits of archeological and Indian history. Admission: $3; ages 12 to 18, $2. Open daily September through May, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.; in summer, Wednesday through Sunday, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandhill cranes wintering in Willcox, Ariz. A hot tub at the Muleshoe Ranch Preserve. The two-room stone cabin at Muleshoe. (Photographs by Dan Budnick for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Ruins of cavalry barracks at Fort Bowie. A state manager closing White Water Draw to protect the sandhill crane roost area. Gravestone of Little Robe, Geronimo's son. (Photographs by Dan Budnick for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Map of Arizona showing some locations of historic sights. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLCOX (ARIZ); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS BIRDS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ECOTOURISM (76%); COLD INJURIES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FESTIVALS (69%); HISTORY (68%); WILDERNESS (60%); 

PERSON: NIXON, ROB HENRY CLAY HOOKER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



6 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2662 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Khomeini Generation

BYLINE: By Elaine Sciolino; Elaine Sciolino, a senior writer for The New York Times, is working on a book about Iran. Her last article for the magazine, "The Chanel Under the Chador," was about the power women of Iran.

 BODY:
In February, Iran's revolution will turn 20 years old. And among the country's many problems, what troubles Iran's clerical leaders the most is that they are losing -- or have already lost -- the generation that has come of age since then.
Sixty-five percent of Iran's population is under the age of 25. Many of them have no particular love or hatred for the late Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi or even for Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the cleric who led the revolution. Universities are so crowded that only 1 in 10 applicants get in. With jobs scarce, young people must defer marriage because they cannot afford a proper wedding and a place to live. Despite episodic easing of some restrictions, socializing with members of the opposite sex, holding hands in public, listening to certain kinds of music, watching foreign television and of course, drinking alcohol, are forbidden. 
 "The younger generation has no attachment, no feeling for the revolution," says Sadeq Ziba-Kalam, a political scientist who was imprisoned by the Shah's regime. "When I teach the revolution, many of my students just look out the window and watch the clock. They say: 'What about us? You had your revolution and your war. What's in it for us?' And I can't tell them the answer."
With the election of Mohammed Khatami as President last year, many young people -- who can vote at age 16 -- hoped they had found the answer, responding enthusiastically to his call for the rule of law and the creation of a civil society. Khatami celebrated the one-year anniversary of his election on May 23 with a passionate speech at Teheran University in which he pleaded for "patience and tolerance" while the Government strives to create the university slots and jobs young Iranians are demanding. But more than a year after being sworn in, he has yet to deliver.
In the following pages, the voices of six young people capture the restlessness and longing of a generation. They come from different backgrounds, yet they all express a strong love of their country. While not rebelling outright, they reject the stern restrictions of the Islamic Republic and demand more freedom and prosperity. And they all hope for better relations with the Western world, and with the United States in particular.
 
Jaffar Azadi, 28, Singer
By morning a taxi driver in Tabriz, by afternoon an auto mechanic, Jaffar Azadi lives for the night. That's when he does his best imitation of his hero, Dariush, the popular Iranian-born singer who now lives in Los Angeles
In Iran, where many popular songs are banned, singing is a high-risk occupation. It's always advisable to carry a little cash to placate the Komiteh, the official morality police, should they happen to crash the wedding party you're working. And sometimes, even that's not enough.
"Of course I've been arrested," Azadi says matter-of-factly, sitting in a lace-curtained ice cream parlor. "Many times I've had to sign papers promising I wouldn't commit the crime of singing again. Usually they want to lash me because I'm the lead singer. But one of the members of our group is 45. And since he's older, we send him to be lashed. We hope they'll lash him less."
Azadi lives with his parents in a modest house with a satellite dish that picks up foreign channels like CNN and the BBC. Although he doesn't pray like his father, he is considered a good son, particularly after he agreed to marry a cousin chosen for him by the family.
Even though they have signed their marriage contract and recited the Koranic marriage verses, the couple do not live together. That will have to wait until they have a formal wedding, which they cannot afford.
Azadi says he voted in last year's elections because that was the only way he could get his identity card stamped to make him eligible for food ration coupons.
So far, his choice, Khatami, has been a disappointment. "Young people in Iran are very confused," he says. "We have no money and no amusement. I haven't seen America but I have heard only good things about it, that you have freedom and an easy life there. Like we hear how it was in the Shah's time -- a free-and-easy life. We loved the Shah. But we don't like this regime. This is not true Islam. They don't live the things they demand we do. I wish we could go back to those days. If only there could be a disco.
"That's what Dariush is good for. He understands sadness, depression."
And then, Azadi sings a song Dariush made famous years ago:
The year of 2000
The year of silence and escape
The year of running away and
patience
The season of the dead-end street
The dark age of 2000.
 
Samira Makhmalbaf, 18, Film Director
From the age of 4, Samira Makhmalbaf knew she wanted to direct films. Unlike most young Iranians, however, she actually had a chance of doing it. She is the daughter of Mohsen Makhmalbaf, the celebrated Iranian filmmaker, and spent much of her childhood on location.
Last year, after watching a television news report about two retarded sisters whose beggar father locked them at home for years, Makhmalbaf borrowed her father's camera and some of his precious film (the distribution of film is controlled by the Government). Within the year, she turned out "The Apple," a feature-length movie about the struggles a social worker endured in trying to free the girls from their confinement.
"The film is about every society but about Iran too," says Makhmalbaf. "People are not free to say what they want here. They think a woman is a second-class human being. They tell you from the time you're a child that you can't do certain jobs because you are a girl."
With her slim pants and T-shirt, three-inch platform sandals, heavy black eyeliner and long ponytail, Makhmalbaf doesn't look much like a female role model for the Islamic Republic. But when her film was shown during the Cannes film festival this year, she wore a head scarf -- tied fashionably behind her neck.
"You get used to it," Makhmalbaf says about the scarf over tea and melon in the headquarters of her father's film company in central Teheran. "The head scarf is a law. Even when I am outside the country, I obey my Islamic law because I want to come back to Iran. There's another thing. It's sort of like my national dress."
Makhmalbaf cannot explain why she voted for Khatami. "Why did I? Why did I?" she asks, flustered. "I beg you not to ask me about political things. I'm only 18. How can I care about everything?"
She has no feel for the revolution and despises the propaganda films shown repeatedly on television about Iran's eight-year war with Iraq. "Revolution is a kind of suicide," she says. "You just kill yourself."
I ask her what kind of film she would make about her own future. "With 'Apple,' I drew these children out of their locked room. 'Apple' drew me out of the country too. Now I can see the world."
 
Leila, 20, Beautician
Leila, an assistant at an upscale beauty salon in Teheran, is a captivating beauty, with thick, braided, thigh-length black hair, a chiseled profile and a slender frame. But you'll just have to take my word for it. She comes from a poor, ultrareligious family and her father, a school security guard, forbids her being photographed, even if she is swathed from head to toe in the black chador she always wears on the street.
Leila doesn't understand the reasons for the revolution, or why she had to chant "Death to America" every day in elementary school. But she knows she wants freedom.
But what does freedom mean for someone like Leila, a deeply religious young woman who prays five times a day? It's the freedom to walk on the streets without the morality police telling her how to dress. "I always wear a chador," she says. "But when some stranger comes up to me and says, 'Lady, fix your head covering,' it hurts. Because inside I know I am very religious. Who is he to insinuate that I'm not?"
 
Sorajedin Mirdamadi, 25, Journalist
In 1988, when Sorajedin Mirdamadi was 15, he ran away from his home in the northeastern city of Mashad and signed up as a martyrdom-seeking volunteer in the horrific war against Iraq. By the time his parents were told what he had done, he was well into basic training.
When it came to the fighting, Mirdamadi was lucky, in a manner of speaking. He was badly wounded before he could join the hundreds of thousands of young Iranians who died in the war. He needed several operations, and still suffers pain from the shrapnel embedded in his body.
He doesn't like to talk much about the war. "I loved the Imam," he says of Khomeini, "and followed whatever he said, so from the time I was a small boy
I prepared myself to go to war." But then, he admits, "It wasn't a very good end, was it?"
After getting a university degree in theology and philosophy, Mirdamadi took a newspaper job in Teheran. With a salary of $170 a month, he lives rent-free in a commune run by a student organization called the Office for Fostering Unity. The group -- which takes its intellectual inspiration from some of the same people who seized the American Embassy in Teheran 19 years ago -- preaches an Islamic-socialist message of distribution of wealth and empowerment of the masses. In fact, some of the decades-old bookcases, tables, chairs and file cabinets in the commune were salvaged from the Embassy.
Mirdamadi, who describes himself as left-wing, believes that backward-thinking clerics have distorted the true meaning of the revolution by abandoning the commitment to the poor, promoting the business interests of big bazaar merchants and giving Iran's current spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, too much political power.
"In culture and politics the clerics are backward," says Mirdamadi,
a small, thin man with dark circles under his eyes. "It's a kind of totalitarianism. They believe that all the power is in their hands."
The son and grandson of clerics, Mirdamadi is a little confused about his future. He says he wants to become a cleric, but in the next breath says he wants to travel the world -- not the normal aspiration of an Iranian cleric. "I lead a kind of university life," he says. "I have no apartment, no car, no girlfriend. I eat very simply -- maybe like the Indians in America did. I never think about getting married or having children, only following my political goals. But I would love to visit America. It's important for a political person to do that."
 
Leila Chamankhah, 22, Student
As far as her parents know, Leila Chamankhah, a graduate student in political science, is living in a dormitory at Tarrbiat Modaress University. They are a wealthy but very conservative couple who presumably would frown on her current full-time residence -- their two-bedroom pied-a-terre in Teheran -- which they think she is using only for studying in the daytime.
Chamankhah likes to wear T-shirts and blue jeans, but she would never go outdoors without a maghnaeh, a cowl-like hood, and a long coat. She has never traveled outside Iran, worn makeup or kissed a boy. Living in the apartment is her way of rebelling, just as she has rejected every man her father has brought home for her to marry since she was 16.
"In our society, going to university is a highway to get away from the customs at home," says Chamankhah in her parents' apartment. "My father believes that women were created to obey men."
Like many young Iranians, Chamankhah calls the 23d of May -- the day Khatami was elected President -- a defining moment. "The 23d of May is when all the efforts of the right wing failed, when they proved they had lost the generation of the revolution," she says. "Khatami is everything the right wing is not. He shows respect for the youth. He is a cleric, but he has been able to adapt himself to the modern world. Even if Khatami is overthrown, his ideas will outlast him."
Chamankhah wants to study in England, then return to Iran to teach and write. "My dream is to inspire students in a country in which Khatami has made permanent changes: political freedom, the creation of political parties, a better economy, relations with all countries, especially America."
Fiery sermons against foreign cultures and the evils of America no longer have the power to inspire, she says. Because the Iranian revolution went too far in Islamicizing the country, she adds, even religious people have turned against institutionalized religion.
"When the regime started acting too religious, people wanted to separate themselves from it," she says. "Prayer should be a personal not a political thing. My mother used to pray at the mosque, but now she says her prayers at home." In her own generation, she says, "religion is fading. We have an expression: whatever we have woven becomes threads instead of cloth. The Islamic regime has failed to win the loyalty of the children of the revolution.'
 
Arash Shamsai, 20, and Mehrab, 19, Entrepreneurs
One day, when he was 16, Arash Shamsai went into his bedroom, locked the door and took an overdose of sleeping pills. He had only recently returned to Iran with his family from Sweden, and the adjustment from the freewheeling life of Malmo was too much to bear.
"I was really angry," he recalls, speaking in fluent English. "All my friends in Sweden kept calling and telling me to come back. In Iran, I had no friends. I couldn't speak Persian very well. I had really long hair and everyone thought I was gay or something."
Shamsai's mother found him unconscious and rushed him to the hospital. "It wasn't time for me to die," he says.
Over time, Shamsai made friends at the private international high school he attended in Teheran. He wants to go to college but has failed the entrance exam two years in a row.
Because he has not done his two years of compulsory military service -- and, under Iran's convoluted rules, is not eligible to pay the $16,000 fee to buy his way out of it -- he must live outside the system. He cannot leave the country to study abroad, get a job with a corporation or get married. But he refuses to serve.
"You lose two years of your life as a soldier," says Shamsai. "The government gets drivers, bus collectors, guards for embassies, toilet cleaners, airport workers, all for free."
So Shamsai and Mehrab, his best friend, lead an underground life. With financing from their fathers, they have rented a tiny office in central Teheran and with one personal computer have set up a business. The two of them make pirated copies of mostly American music and films on CD's and sell them on the black market.
"My parents are well off, so I could sit home and just get money from my Mom and Dad," says Shamsai, who, like most single young people in Iran, still lives at home with his parents. "But I want to get my own money, to be independent."
Born in 1978, nine months before Ayatollah Khomeini returned to Iran, Shamsai says he doesn't know why there was a revolution or a war with Iraq. He can't remember what Khatami's first name is, but voted for him because "he looked good."
"It's summer and it's hot and I don't want to go out with these pants I'm wearing," he says over dinner at a popular open-air Italian restaurant called Sorrento. "I want to go out in shorts. But it's banned. I came here last night with my parents, and they talked about how much they loved coming here before the revolution, having beer and wine to drink as they sat outside and ate a good meal. Why can't it be like that now?"
Shamsai may copy American music and films for a living, but he has no desire to escape from Iran and move to the United States. He has two heroes, he says: his father and Ali Daei, the star of Iran's soccer team.
"If you ask me my dream, it's to be free like they are in other countries. If I could say whatever I wanted to say, go wherever I wanted to go, go to university, have fun, that would be great. I want things to be better -- here -- in my own country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jaffar Azadi: 'We hear how it was in the Shah's time -- a free-and-easy life. We loved the Shah. But we don't like this regime. This is not true Islam. They don't live the things they demand we do. I wish we could go back to those days. If only there could be a disco.'; Samira Makhmalbaf: 'People are not free to say what they want here. They think a woman is a second-class human being. They tell you from the time you're a child that you can't do certain jobs because you are a girl.'; Sorajedin Mirdamadi: 'I have no apartment, no car, no girlfriend. I eat very simply -- maybe like the Indians in America did. I never think about getting married or having children, only following my political goals. But I would love to visit America. It's important for a political person to do that.'; Leila Chamankhah: 'Khatami is everything the right wing is not. He shows respect for the youth. He is a cleric, but he has been able to adapt himself to the modern world. Even if Khatami is overthro wn, his ideas will outlast him.'; Arash Shamsai and Mehrab: 'It's hot and I don't want to go out with these pants I'm wearing,' Arash says. 'I want to go out in shorts. But it's banned. I came here last night with my parents, and they talked about how much they loved coming here before the revolution, having beer and wine to drink as they sat outside and ate a good meal. Why can't it be like that now?' (Jamshid Bairami for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (53%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; KHOMEINI, RUHOLLAH (AYATOLLAH) (1900-89) AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



7 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 43; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Typical;
The Likes and Dislikes of Today's Everyfamily

BYLINE: By David Wallis 

 BODY:
When Americans go to the polls on Tuesday, don't expect seismic shifts -- or even loud noises. Things are comfy right now, and even with background worries about the economy, the Zeitgeist seems to be: We like where we are. Pass the microbrew. As surveys indicate, middle America is more upscale than it used to be -- liberal socially, conservative economically. In the following data stream, moderation reigns, strikingly so, perhaps explaining why Bill Clinton and his poll-tested policies have stayed popular during this Presidential annus horribilis.
 
* The typical American family -- a white married couple with 1.89 children -- lives in a house it owns and has a pet, most often a mixed-breed dog or a nothing-special domestic short-hair cat.
* Favorite sport utility vehicle: the Ford Explorer.
 
* Most couples consider good sex vital to a marriage's success, but have sex about once a week -- for an average of 39 minutes.
 
* Given $1,000 to invest, 73 percent of respondents in a recent survey would still bet on stocks.
 
* The Top 10 things recently ranked by Americans as in: jeans, the Internet, female athletes, gourmet coffee, kids, alternative medicine, ethnic food, angels and volunteerism.
 
* Growth of red-wine sales in the U.S. from 1991 to 1997: 151 percent.
 
* Growth of Internet usage since 1995: 167 percent.
 
* Almost everybody -- 99 percent -- thinks the Government wastes a portion of their tax dollars.
 
* Most doubt that they will be able to afford health care in the next 10 years.
 
* Most believe contraceptives should be covered by health insurance, even if premiums rise slightly.
 
* A majority of Americans now dress casually for work everyday.
 
* Seven of 10 want stricter gun-control laws and oppose repealing the assault-weapons ban.
 
* The number of Americans who have tried cappuccino, latte or another espresso-based product grew by 34 percent from 1997 to 1998.
 
* Seventy-six percent of Americans oppose a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion.
 
* Sixty percent of all U.S. households carry credit-card debt. Average balance: $7,000.
 
* Three of four families still eat together regularly, but the dinner hour is speedy -- 30 minutes or less.
 
* A majority of Americans, of all races, support mending not ending affirmative action.
 
* Most Americans (80 percent) support President Clinton's plan to lower the average class size in public schools.
 
* More than 90 percent feel safe in their neighborhoods.
 
* The average American family generates more than 2,500 pounds of garbage each year; 76 percent recycle cans, bottles or paper.
 
* Nearly two-thirds don't find the air nearly clean enough -- and want Uncle Sam to do something about it.
 
* Two-thirds want to restrict human cloning.
 
* Favorite pizza topping: pepperoni.
 
* Eight of 10 adults agree that the Social Security system faces serious problems requiring Congress' immediate attention.
 
* Two-thirds favor allowing homosexuals to serve in the military.
 
* Sixty-three percent think a sexual encounter between a powerful man and a less-powerful woman at the office does not automatically constitute sexual harassment.
 
* Favorite actress: Meg Ryan and Helen Hunt (tie).
 
* Favorite airline for long-distance flights among frequent fliers: T.W.A.
 
* Ninety percent own dental floss, but most neglect to use it every day.
 
* Americans, by a 2-to-1 margin, oppose bilingual education; most people would agree to carry a national identity card if that deterred illegal immigration.
 
* Most people agree with the statement, "The United States Constitution is important to me," but more than half don't know that there are 100 senators. More American teen-agers can name the Three Stooges than the three branches of the Federal Government.
 
* An overwhelming majority believe in God (and most believe in the devil, too), belong to a church and pray silently at least once a day.
 
* Favorite style of eggs: scrambled.
 
* Most voters want TV and radio networks to provide political candidates with free air time.
 
* A majority believe the government should ban smoking in public places like stores and restaurants.
 
* Favorite sneakers: Nike.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Chris Beltrami. Digital Manipulation by Ignacio Rodriguez.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FAMILY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); CATS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); SPORTS (73%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); COFFEE & TEA (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); CLONING (69%); DOGS (69%); HUMAN CLONING (69%); ATHLETES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (66%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); GUN CONTROL (62%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (62%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: WALLIS, DAVID BILL CLINTON (72%); DAVID W WALLIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



8 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 26; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Mail-Order High for Students on the Go

BYLINE: By David M. Herszenhorn 

 BODY:
After bouncing in and out of so many schools in Europe, Africa and the United States that he can't remember all their names, Simone S. Liverani found himself in Kolokani, a town in Mali, the west African country where his mother worked for a company drilling water wells. There was no diplomatic or international school anywhere nearby, so he tried a local high school.
 Mr. Liverani (pictured at right), an Italian who also speaks English and understands some French, had been told classes would be taught in French, but most teachers spoke Bambara, the native language. "This was the last straw," he said. "It was a mess." 
 An official at the United States consulate suggested the Independent Study High School, based at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln. Founded in 1929 as a correspondence program to educate rural Nebraskans, the school has one of only a few fully accredited distance-education programs offering high school diplomas; other well-known programs include the North Dakota Division of Independent Study in Fargo and Texas Tech University Distance Learning in Lubbock.
 They offer an option for the children of diplomats and missionaries, or those
 who can't or don't want to go to a schoolhouse every day. Among young athletes and actors who have studied through Nebraska are Michelle Kwan, the Olympic silver medalist, and Lisa Bonet, a star of "The Cosby Show."
 While most students take courses to fill gaps in their school records, some 3,400 students have received diplomas from Nebraska since 1968. With the emergence of home schooling as a viable choice for teen-agers, enrollment has increased almost 50 percent in the last decade, according to James E. Schiefelbein, the Nebraska school's principal. Today there are some 5,000 students at any given time, representing more than 130 countries.
 Joining the new wave in distance education, the school has begun offering on-line courses and is developing a complete on-line, four-year curriculum with the help of a $15 million grant from the Federal Department of Education. For now, students must take a mix of Web and correspondence courses to meet diploma requirements, which are 40 courses, or 200 course hours.
 A course can be completed in as little as five weeks of intensive study, or stretched out for as long as a year. Assignments are submitted by mail, fax or e-mail to 9 permanent teachers, who grade them with help from 10 to 15 part-timers. When written examinations are required, a proctor approved by the school administers the tests.
 "Our kids do very, very well post- secondary," Mr. Schiefelbein said. "They are not dependent on somebody to tell them what to do and when, so they have a little bit of an advantage on their peers because they have become more self-disciplined workers."
 The school designed a program for Mr. Liverani, now 28, that allowed him to finish his diploma requirements in a year and a half. From his remote home, he sent assignments by mail, and they were graded and returned that way. "They managed to make you feel that you were part of a school," said Mr. Liverani, who worked this past summer in New York City as an intern at The Economist and is hoping for a journalism job in Europe. "I sent in a lot of material, and it would be corrected. They would write a lot. That was important because it was a continuous relationship."
 Allison Rizzuto, of Omaha (right), an Independent Study graduate, remembers getting a big box of experiments in the mail for physical science class. "It's kind of funny, because you are in the kitchen with a bunsen burner and you have to do all these experiments by yourself," she said.
 Ms. Rizzuto, worried that attending a traditional school until 3 P.M. would derail her career, had convinced her parents to let her take correspondence courses so she could sing in a folk-pop group with her three older sisters.
 She studied from 8 A.M. to noon for four years, spending afternoons practicing or touring the county and state fair circuit. In May her group, Mulberry Lane, named for the street the sisters grew up on, released a debut CD, "Don't Cry -- Til You Get to the Car," which they recorded themselves in their home studio.
 "I learned to be self-motivated," said Ms. Rizzuto, now 22. "In correspondence school, every textbook you get, you have to finish the whole thing. You read every page of the book." DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Ted Kirk for The New York Times; Kent Sievers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); MALI (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); AFRICA (91%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (83%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (55%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (83%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (55%); TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); MALI (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (91%); AFRICA (91%); NEBRASKA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (87%); CURRICULA (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (68%); OLYMPICS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); WATER WELL DRILLING (57%); HOME SCHOOLING (55%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M LISA BONET (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



9 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 20; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 3523 words

HEADLINE: The Final Refrains of 'Dixie'

BYLINE: By Kevin Sack; Kevin Sack is the Atlanta bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: Oxford, Miss.

 BODY:
Not so long ago, it would have been considered an act of cultural treason: Allison Grisham, a white sorority sister at the University of Mississippi, stood onstage at Fulton Chapel and explained to a hushed crowd why it was so important for students and alumni at football games to stop waving the Confederate battle flag and singing "Dixie."
 Standing beside her good friend Jada Love, who is black, Ms. Grisham told a forum sponsored by President Clinton's advisory board on race that she understood that many students regarded the rituals as a demonstration of school spirit, inherited from red-sweatered parents on family pilgrimages to Oxford. 
 But, she argued, those days have passed.
 "The need of the university to be welcoming to all students far outweighs the perceived tradition of the controversial flag and song," she declared.
 The crowd's ovation, the most enthusiastic of that March night, accelerated quickly to a crescendo, no one applauding more admiringly than Chancellor Robert C. Khayat, the man who has made it his mission to change the hidebound image of Ole Miss. With Ms. Grisham and Ms. Love side by side, here was the embodiment of the university of his aspirations, a place where a fresh breeze of civility might finally cut through the fog of stale tear gas and defiance.
 Still, the old Ole Miss lingered in the audience. Before long, a man from DeSoto County, Bryant Walker, rose to declare, "It's my freedom to fly that flag." He then suggested that the university was suppressing its symbols only to recruit black football players. "I'll tell you one thing," Mr. Walker concluded, "before it comes to me losing a flag that I believe in, I'll lose football games."
 The Faulknerian tension between past and present never eases for long at Ole Miss, a university that sent its sons off to war in 1861 and then waged a civil rights battle of its own a century later.
 The cemetery behind the basketball arena holds hundreds of Confederate dead from the days when classrooms were converted into hospital wards for the wounded from Shiloh. Nearby, the columned administration building, known as the Lyceum, is still pocked with bullet holes from the riot that greeted the court-ordered arrival of the first black student, James H. Meredith, in 1962.
 Many white Mississippians have long venerated the University of Mississippi as sacred space. But nationally, because of its violent resistance to desegregation and the suppression of academic freedom that followed it, the school has been regarded by many as a place where scholarship seemed secondary to the preservation of a bygone culture.
 Since taking office three years ago, Dr. Khayat (pronounced KI-yat) has shown fierce determination to change all that. In a turnabout worthy of Nixon to China, Dr. Khayat, a former Ole Miss student, football hero and law professor, has effectively staked his legacy on recasting the school's image by aggressively confronting its shortcomings, both real and perceived.
 It is no accident that Dr. Khayat, 60, explains his goal for Ole Miss as a dual one: "To be -- and to be perceived as -- a great public university." Image, Dr. Khayat understands, is a university's most precious asset. When it gleams like a gilded dome, a school sells itself effortlessly, whether its reputation is deserved or not. Conversely, when a school's image is tarnished, it is doubly hard to attract top students, star faculty, alumni support and research grants, no matter how outdated the perception.
In the academy, perhaps more than in any other realm, perception often lags reality by decades. And nowhere has that phenomenon been more crippling than at Ole Miss, which has struggled for decades to claw its way out of the disastrous public relations hole it dug for itself in the early 1960's.
 "Ole Miss is not the national repository of racial guilt," Dr. Khayat said, "and we are not the last bastion of the Confederacy. We lived through the Civil War and we lived through the civil rights movement, and the university was significant in each of those. But this is 1998. We are a fully integrated, open, caring, nurturing, vital community, and I am ready for the rest of the country to understand that that's where we are."
 This, of course, is why Dr. Khayat invited the President's advisory board to Oxford in the first place, to demonstrate that it was now possible to have an open conversation about race at Ole Miss. But that evening, like other recent events, also made it clear that change does not come without challenge in a place where history resonates so strongly. Last year, for instance, when Dr. Khayat broached even the possibility of examining the university's remaining Old South symbols, including the flag, he received hate mail so virulent that the university tightened security around his house.
 Still, in this, the university's sesquicentennial year, there are signs of progress. Most visibly, and perhaps most remarkably, the Confederate flags have virtually disappeared from Vaught-Hemingway Stadium on football Saturdays, the result of repeated efforts by the administration, the coaches and the student government. Grandstands that once swirled with Rebel flags, even as dozens of black players took the field, are now largely an impressionist blur of red-and-white pompoms.
 Less evident, but perhaps more significant in the long term, are Dr. Khayat's notable fund-raising successes and the gradual improvement in the university's persistently mediocre academic standing. But even with the improvement, Ole Miss remains well behind other Southern universities in critical areas, like faculty salaries, research grants and number of library volumes. Yet its forward momentum, however tentative, may prove the best cure for the university's reputation as a static, backward-looking place.
 "Chancellor Khayat's great goal is to free the University of Mississippi from these negative images," said David G. Sansing, an Ole Miss historian and the author of the university's sesquicentennial history. "And he feels that if you can maximize the positive images of this institution, the negative images will take care of themselves."
 To most of the 255 colleges and universities with chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, the honor society's presence on campus is so taken for granted that it hardly merits mention. That is what makes its absence so hurtful -- humiliating, really -- to the handful of flagship universities where the quality of undergraduate liberal arts education is not deemed high enough to rate membership in the club.
 Dr. Khayat has made it his obsession to win a Phi Beta Kappa chapter for Ole Miss, which shares its ignominy with the universities of Alaska, Montana and Nevada. Success, he said, would help Ole Miss overcome an inferiority complex that he said seems native to all Mississippians. "As our self-perception changes," he said, "then the external perception will change as well."
 When Phi Beta Kappa denied the University of Mississippi's membership application in the mid-80's, it cited the school's substandard libraries and laboratories and its inability to attract and challenge the brightest students.
 But that was then. Although the honor society's officials will not formally visit the campus until next spring, its executive secretary, Douglas W. Foard, already offers a complimentary assessment. "In all cases, images lag," he said, "and there's still a lot of that old mint julep image left. But my sense is that it's a much improved academic institution, that it's no longer a Southern party school, that it's a much more serious place for students to study and for faculty to do research and teach."
 Phi Beta Kappa's judgment will provide only one gauge of progress. With other yardsticks, the university's standing depends on whether it is measured against its past or against its peers. Compared with the Ole Miss of a decade ago, it is a more diverse, more selective and more rigorous school. But compared with the prestigious state schools that Dr. Khayat hopes to compete with someday, like the universities of Michigan, North Carolina, Texas and Virginia, it has a distance to travel.
 Research funding at Ole Miss, for instance, has grown to $20.5 million this year, from $13 million in 1989. But that sum pales when compared with other flagship schools: the University of Georgia, for example, reports $209 million in annual research funds.
 In each of the last three years, Ole Miss has broken its previous record for the average A.C.T. score of its entering freshmen. This year, that score has increased to 23.44 (out of a possible 36), from 22.21 in 1990. Its scores now are comparable to those reported by the University of Alabama, the University of Arkansas and Louisiana State University, but are well behind those of other Southern schools, like the University of Florida and the University of North Carolina. And faculty members complain that many students are ill prepared, particularly in their writing and analytical skills, shortcomings they attribute to the poor quality of Mississippi's public schools.
 In a state that is 36 percent black, the number of black students is only 11.4 percent of the total enrollment of 10,731 students, but that represents an increase of nearly 50 percent in the last 10 years. A new honors college has helped to attract bright students of all races who might not otherwise have considered Ole Miss.
 One of them, Markeeva A. Morgan, a black sophomore from Strayhorn, Miss., said he chose Ole Miss over Harvard and the University of California because of its nurturing environment. "Looking at pure academics," he said, "I don't think I could justifiably compare Ole Miss to the other two. But when I compared the personal atmosphere as well as the intellectual rigor, there was no comparison. I was determined to go to a university where I wasn't a number. There's a genuine interest in the administration and the professors to see a student excel."
 Like students at many colleges, those at Ole Miss tend to segregate in dining halls and at parties. But a new biracial group of university students is addressing questions of race and diversity, and students have also formed a foundation to raise $150,000 to commission a civil rights memorial for the campus. They have raised about a third of that sum in three years.
 Perhaps the most challenging issue remains the recruitment of black faculty, currently 6 percent of the total. The school's respected Center for the Study of Southern Culture, for all its research on the blues and other aspects of African-American heritage, has never employed a black professor. Natashia S. Gregoire, a black senior who is editor of the student newspaper, said she had yet to take a class taught by a black faculty member.
 But Ole Miss still has done better than many of its peers. And one of its faculty appointments speaks volumes in symbolism. Donald R. Cole, one of seven black students who were expelled after a racial protest in Fulton Chapel in 1970, is now the associate dean of the graduate school.
 Clearly, though, the university's image has hindered recruitment of black faculty, just as it has limited its appeal to black athletes. Tommy Tuberville, the football coach, and Rod Barnes, the basketball coach, maintain that they lose recruits because rivals play the race card against Ole Miss. Dr. Cole said the same holds true in the competition for black professors.
 "With faculty that are highly sought," he said, "other universities will use our past against us. I often think about whether we can get on the fast track out, or do we just throw up our hands and say it's hopeless."
 Janice W. Murray, a black New Yorker, remembers the puzzled looks she got last year when she decided to leave Yale to become chairman of the art department at Ole Miss. "People would say, 'What's wrong with you? Are you running away from something?' " she said with a chuckle.
 But after a year, Ms. Murray is charmed by Faulkner's hometown, with its endearing courthouse square. She likes her colleagues and admires her students and their manners. "I probably heard more 'thank you's' in the first week here than I heard in 10 years," she said.
 And she quickly became captivated by the university's history. She fell hard for the story of the University Greys, a company of young students who marched off to protect the Confederacy in 1861, only 13 years after the university opened its doors. Almost all were killed or wounded, many during Pickett's charge at Gettysburg.
 As she told the tale over dinner in a crowded restaurant one night this fall, she began dabbing her eyes with her napkin. "They almost all died," she said.
 That a black woman could shed tears over Confederate dead seems incongruous on a campus whose history has so mirrored the racial conflicts of the South. By the 1950's, even as integrationist movements were gaining strength elsewhere, the imagery of the Lost Cause had been thoroughly woven into the fabric of the university, according to Dr. Sansing. It had adopted the nickname Ole Miss, a phrase once used by slaves to refer to the mistress of the plantation. Its athletic teams bore the name Rebels, as they still do today. Its hallowed shrines included the Confederate cemetery, a monument to the Confederate dead and a stained-glass window that paid tribute to the Greys.
 In 1948, the same year that the segregationist Dixiecrats revived the use of the Confederate flag, the Ole Miss band began to play "Dixie" and unfurl an enormous battle flag as part of its halftime routine. In 1950, students inaugurated "Dixie Week," which featured a ceremonial reading of the Ordinance of Secession and the auctioning of cheerleaders as slaves.
 Then, in the autumn of 1962, under Federal court order, Mr. Meredith became the first black student to enroll at the University of Mississippi. His arrival on campus was greeted with a riot that became a seminal moment in the civil rights movement, prompting President Kennedy to send in nearly 30,000 Federal troops. The rioting left two people dead, hundreds injured and hundreds more arrested.
 Making matters worse, the desegregation of the campus was followed by intermittent purges of faculty members judged to be too liberal on race. An exhibition by Ray Kerciu, an art professor, was ordered removed after complaints that his paintings degraded the Confederate flag. Robert Farley, a law school dean who was considered an integrationist, was forced to retire. James Silver, a prominent historian, left under fire after arguing that Mississippi had become a totalitarian society.
 In 1983, as black students and faculty became more integrated into campus life, the university officially dissociated itself from the Rebel flag, meaning that it would no longer be carried
 by cheerleaders or sold in university bookstores. But some students and fans continued to wave the flag in the stands and to display it proudly in the Grove, the lovely oak-filled green where lavish pregame picnics are held. And each time the university seemed poised to move forward, some embarrassing event always managed to pull it back.
 In 1988, for instance, the first black fraternity house being built on Fraternity Row was torched in an unsolved case of arson. (White fraternities helped raise the money needed to rebuild.) A year later, some white fraternity pledges kidnapped a white upperclassman and left him naked at Rust College, a predominantly black school nearby, with racial epithets scrawled on his chest. After the incident, the fraternity was disbanded, and a number of students were disciplined.
 If anyone can make the case that Ole Miss must change, the university's loyalists say, it is Robert Khayat. He is, after all, one of them.
Born in Moss Point near the Mississippi coast, Dr. Khayat was an all-conference baseball player at Ole Miss. He also led the nation in scoring as the football team's place-kicker in 1958 and 1959, and then played for the Washington Redskins for four years. He returned to Ole Miss for law school, then later taught and served as associate dean there. As a professor, he earned a reputation for prescience when he returned an examination to a student named John Grisham with the comment, "Although you missed most of the legal issues, you have a real talent for fiction."
 As chancellor, he exudes the courtliness and amiability of a small-town lawyer. He picks up litter on morning jogs through the campus and brakes his Jeep to chat with students. Freshmen get the sweats when his secretary summons them to his office, only to discover that he simply wants to see how they are enjoying the place. He has personally made 30 recruiting trips to predominantly black high schools.
 Alumni have responded enthusiastically to his vision for the school. Not accounting for inflation, he has raised more money during his tenure than all of his predecessors combined, according to school records. The university's endowment has nearly doubled to $204 million. Large private gifts have financed the honors college, an international studies institute and salary increases for liberal arts professors. The compact campus is bustling with construction, including the $20 million first phase of a new performing arts center.
 Dr. Khayat has attacked the university's image as a party school by pushing fraternity and sorority rush from the first week of fall term to the sixth week. He has insisted that the university library remain open 24 hours a day and has redesigned course schedules so that more students have classes on Fridays, undercutting their tendency to begin weekends on Thursday nights.
 After deciding to attack his university's image problem when he took over in 1995, Dr. Khayat turned for help to Harold Burson, an Ole Miss alumnus and the chairman of Burson-Marstellar, the world's largest public relations firm.
 "Robert called me up and said, 'We're going after a Phi Beta Kappa chapter,' Mr. Burson said, 'and I'm just concerned that the one thing that could knock us down is the perception that we're a racist school.' He said, 'I'd really like to change that, but I'm not sure how to go about it.' "
 They decided to start with a national opinion survey, but in announcing it last year, both Mr. Khayat and Mr. Burson made it clear that the assessment might raise questions about the university's remaining Old South symbols, including the continued use of the Confederate flag, the name Ole Miss, the nickname Rebels, campus street names, like Confederate Drive, and the white-haired mascot, Colonel Reb.
 A backlash swelled quickly. Students formed groups dedicated to the preservation of Ole Miss traditions. Letter writers, egged on by the Sons of Confederate Veterans, scorched Dr. Khayat in Mississippi newspapers and in messages sent to the university.
 It quickly became apparent that Dr. Khayat would have to moderate his approach to avoid a self-immolating firestorm.
 At the same time, somewhat surprisingly, in Mr. Burson's survey relatively few people raised the issue of the symbols at all, and race relations was mentioned even less frequently as a liability than the university's reputation as a party school. The larger problem, Mr. Burson asserted, was not that Ole Miss had a negative image, but that it had little image at all.
 Dr. Khayat used Mr. Burson's findings to downplay the need to move aggressively against the symbols. It fell to the student government to pass a resolution last fall encouraging students to leave their Confederate flags at home on game days. The athletic department helped by banning flag sticks in the stadium because they posed a safety hazard. (Banning the flag, it was thought, would violate free-speech protections.)
 For the most part, the flags have disappeared. But a small number of students have responded by outfitting themselves in Confederate-flag skirts on game days. And a few alumni still place statuettes of Robert E. Lee on their brunch tables in the Grove, a bastion that remains so white on football Saturdays that some black students and faculty refuse to traverse it.
 Some faculty members criticize Dr. Khayat for backing away from a confrontation over the symbols after gauging the resistance.
 "The feeling of many faculty here was that he raised the issue in dramatic fashion, and that was important," said Charles Reagan Wilson, the director of the Center for the Study of Southern Culture. "But he got so much criticism from people outside the university, these neo-Confederates out there, that he really felt the force of that."
 But others, including some black professors, say Dr. Khayat had wisely concluded that his other ambitions for Ole Miss would be threatened by a fight to the death over the university's symbols, and that such a confrontation might harm the university's image more than improve it.
 "You can't be a lightning rod if you want to stay," said Ms. Murray, the art department chairman. "And if you've got goals for this place, you've got to be here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: August 1998 Robert C. Khayat, chancellor of the University of Mississippi, is working to change his alma mater's "Lost Cause" image. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times); Sept. 30, 1962 A campus riot protesting integration left two dead and prompted President Kennedy to send in nearly 30,000 Federal troops. (United Press International); 1848 The university's first building, the Lyceum. It is now pocked with bullet holes from the riot after the court-ordered arrival of the first black student, James H. Meredith, in 1962. (University of Mississippi); Sept. 19, 1962 An amended sign a few days before Mr. Meredith arrived at the university, left. The word "white" was later removed. (The Associated Press); 1889 The University Greys, a campus Confederate unit, are honored by stained-glass depictions in Ventress Hall, built just after the Civil War. (University of Mississippi); Sept. 12, 1998 Though the school's Confederate relics are fading, old symbols die hard. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times); Sept. 30, 1962 Mr. Meredith being escorted onto the campus by Federal marshals. (Pictorial Parade); The pompom squad at Ole Miss is called the Rebelettes; Colonel Reb, a university symbol, still appears at tailgate parties. (Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "By The Numbers: University of Mississippe, Oxford" shows the University's racial breakdown, enrollment, tuition and average A.C.T. score.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; BLACKS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); BASKETBALL (72%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; KHAYAT, ROBERT C (CHANCELLOR) JOHN F KENNEDY (70%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



10 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 8; Column 4; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: BLACKBOARD: JOB MARKET;
Package Deal For College

BYLINE: By Stephanie Gutmann 

 BODY:
In these boom times, with part-time jobs going begging in the service economy, college students can afford to be picky. That's why United Parcel Service in Louisville, Ky., the company's busiest package-processing hub, began its own version of the G.I. Bill this fall: free tuition at three local colleges -- the University of Louisville, Jefferson Community College and Jefferson Technical College -- in exchange for a semester-by-semester commitment to work 20 hours a week on U.P.S.'s most-difficult-to-fill shift: midnight to 3 A.M.
 And it's grueling, hefting boxes onto conveyor belts or into trucks in the middle of the night. But people like Michael Hayes, 20, formerly of Flatwood, Ky., were so elated by the prospect of free tuition that they moved to Louisville to take jobs. He now lifts 25 large (up to 150 pounds) packages a minute. 
 Mr. Hayes is one of 850 employees -- 650 new ones lured by free college and 200 company veterans -- who started school this semester at what is being called Metropolitan College; 150 young people are on a waiting list, and U.P.S. expects to eventually put 2,000 employees a year through school.
 "We had an inkling we could get more students if we could get a college to offer classes on a schedule that was conducive to working in the middle of the night," says Ken Shapiro, a U.P.S. spokesman, "and we were ready to offer some kind of incentive to get people in the door."
 The unusual deal developed when U.P.S. started talking about expanding its plant, hiring more workers and, if necessary, moving to find them -- maybe out of state. At stake were about 21,000 U.P.S. jobs. After learning of the company's staffing needs, the city offered to pay 50 percent of the tuition in the program, as well as provide the usual please-don't-leave tax breaks. (Tuition ranges from $800 to $8,040 a year, depending on a student's residency status, the school and the course load.)
 To insure that there are appropriate schedules for these special students, who need to sleep during the day, the three schools added a total of 78 classes in the hours of 5 to 10 P.M.
 U.P.S. and the city are also constructing a dormitory (it won't be free) with special soundproofing, heavy blinds and more classrooms, and offering shuttle bus service between the job, the dormitory and classes.
 The idea, said John Kinney, director of Metropolitan College, is to "develop a group who can function with an altered circadian rhythm." S.G.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In exchange for free tuition, Michael Hayes hefts boxes on the U.P.S. night shift, top. (John Rott for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE (KY); UNITED STATES (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (95%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DELIVERY SERVICES; LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); RELOCATIONS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: GUTMANN, STEPHANIE MICHAEL J HAYES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



11 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 12; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Uncommon Stories of Common People

BYLINE: By KENNETH BEST 

 BODY:
THE story behind Diane Smith's weekly series on television station WTNH developing into a book is the kind of upbeat tale of Connecticut Yankee ingenuity that Ms. Smith would report herself, if she could.
The 160-page book, "Positively Connecticut," published in October by the Globe Pequot Press of Old Saybrook, includes 70 stories and lots of photographs from the nearly 600 feature reports Ms. Smith has done over the past 15 years on subjects ranging from a horseshoe league in Deep River to a blind canoeist in Bethel. 
 Ms. Smith's "Positively Connecticut" reports, which air each Monday evening on News Channel 8, are unabashedly inspired by the late Charles Kurault, the CBS correspondent whose "On the Road" series took him across the United States in search of uncommon stories about common people.
"He was sort of a role model to me," Ms. Smith said. "He could make you care about this guy in North Carolina who carves whistles to call his pigs in with. I don't ever expect to be as good a writer as he was, but I'd like to think that I always try to concentrate on the story behind the story -- What motivates this person? Why do they have this passion? Why do they have this dream?"
For many years as she spoke before community groups, Ms. Smith would be asked if she planned to put her own stories into a book. Two years ago, following a speech at the Madison Beach Club, the question surfaced again from a woman who said she had recently moved to Connecticut.
"I answered the question by saying I thought it would be complicated to do a book because the television station owned the material, it was copyrighted and I wasn't sure if they'd be interested in doing it," Ms. Smith recalled. "A couple of people sitting next to me laughed and one of them tapped me on the shoulder and said, 'Obviously you haven't met your new general manager's wife.' "
That was Valerie Yaggi, whose husband, Hank Yaggi, was the newly arrived general manager of News Channel 8. He thought that publishing a "Positively Connecticut" book would be a good way to celebrate the 50th anniversary of WTNH in 1998.
Ms. Smith began the process of selecting stories by taking boxes of videotapes from the station's archives to her Fairfield County home (along with various playback machines, since video technology has changed over the 15 years).
"There were stories that immediately jumped out that I knew had to be in there," she said. "Some stories got eliminated because there were too many in one category, like historic places. Then I took a map, hung it up on the wall and put pins in it for where all the stories originated, because I really wanted to say something about all of Connecticut. So we started looking at stories that had to go because there were too many from one area."
As Ms. Smith was working to narrow the story selection, her husband, Thomas Woodruff, began to work out the technical challenges. An economist and former professor at Cornell with long experience with personal computers, Mr. Woodruff first sought to ease the process of transcribing the original tapes using voice conversion software.
But the multiple voices on each story, along with natural, ambient sounds which were integral to the reports, resulted in limited success. Ms. Smith had to transcribe the tapes herself, and in the process started to update the stories.
"It refamiliarized me with the people and then I just sat down and started calling," she said. "If I couldn't find them, I could call someone in the town and ask if they remembered so-and-so, who did such-and-such. Somebody always could find them. It actually turned out to be a lot of fun. Most of the people were still doing what they were doing when I did my story."
Ultimately, Ms. Smith said, she reworked almost all of each story, adding descriptions to replace the visual images, while trying to keep the flavor of the narrative.
To illustrate "Positively Connecticut," the publisher originally had the thought to use still photographs of the people and places in the stories. However Ms. Smith wanted to keep the "authentic feeling of what it was like on the air." That meant trying capture video images for use in a print publication, a process that has not been done very successfully in color because of the technical differences between video and print technology.
Mr. Woodruff took on the technical challenge. He worked with Globe Pequot's technical staff, graphics software manufacturers and WTNH technical staff. Eventually more than 300 color video images accompanied the still photography opening each section of the book.
"Video images don't contain as rich a bed of information as print films on a still image," Mr. Woodruff said. "We used a two-step process. We froze images on videotape to get the largest images possible and then played with the color density and contrast to find the best characteristics of image and sharpness. I probably need a new pair of glasses now."
The collaborative process used in preparing the book is consistent with that used to report the weekly stories for television, Ms. Smith said. The video photographers she has worked with over the years receive warm acknowledgment from her in the beginning of the book.
"It's sort of been serial monogamy. I've had a few guys for a long period of time and then in the interim I've had a mix of guys," Ms. Smith said. "When photographers came up with great ideas for a story, I asked them to shoot it with me, which is why there are so many names. When I work consistently with a photographer I don't think of them as just the picture guy. I depend on them to talk to me about the story and ask if they think it's a good story. How would it work out? What kind of music would be good? That's one of the reasons I got into TV. I had been in radio and it was so solitary to me. I like having a partner to bounce things off of."
Her current partner on the "Positively Connecticut" series is Ken Melech, who also worked closely with Mr. Woodruff on the book.
"I get a lot of creative freedom to shoot and edit the pieces as I see them," he said. "This was another growth opportunity. I never worked with publishing before."
There were two stories that Ms. Smith knew from the start would be in the book.
One was a report about a group of retired workers from Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford who volunteered to restore the Excambian, a flying boat used during World War II to carry V.I.P.s. Ms. Smith originally reported the story in 1987 and returned more than 10 years later to see the completed project, which is now on display at the New England Air Museum in Windsor Locks.
"It's unusual in this business to have the opportunity to stick around long enough to see something from beginning to end. That made it very special to me," Ms. Smith said. "Plus the idea that these people would come back to work -- practically full time -- and that they loved what they did."
The other story is about Eric Hultgren of Westport, known as the Toyman, who after losing his wife to cancer and then battling the disease himself channeled his energy into crafting wooden toys for children being treated at Bridgeport Hospital. She revisited Mr. Hultgren to see how he reacted to all the publicity he received.
"His story gave me the feeling that one of the things about Connecticut is that we have these pockets of extreme wealth and poverty," she said. "This was a story that crossed those borders. Not that Eric is a terribly wealthy man, but he lives in Westport, one of the gold coast towns, and his heart went out to the kids in Bridgeport. And while not every kid in Bridgeport Hospital is a poor kid, a lot of them are."
Ms. Smith will continue to anchor two newscasts each weekday and prepare a new "Positively Connecticut" segment each week while juggling a promotional schedule of book, charity events and media interviews. Facing the opposite end of a microphone will be a new experience for her.
"I am a little worried about it," she said. "My family teases me that I never have a conversation, it's always an interview. I figure what I'll probably end up doing is turn it around and interview the person interviewing me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Smith, with her current cameraman, Ken Melech, filming a segment of "Positively Connecticut" in the Sweet Blossoms shop in New Milford. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: POSITIVELY CONNECTICUT (TV PROGRAM); POSITIVELY CONNECTICUT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); 

PERSON: SMITH, DIANE; BEST, KENNETH DIANE SMITH (97%); THOMAS WOODRUFF (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



12 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Karen Pollard;
Public-Private Gains at New Waterbury Mall

BYLINE: By CHARLES D. TIMLIN 

 BODY:
FOR years, the drive past Waterbury on Interstate 84 was marred by the decrepit and decaying Scovill Manufacturing plant, where brass products once were made. Then Homart Inc., of Minneapolis, bought the site, proposing a mall. General Growth Properties Inc. of Chicago, in turn, bought out Homart in December of 1995. Last September, aided by $36 million in state and Federal funds, it completed the $160 million, 1.1 million-square-foot Brass Mills Center Mall and Commons on the site.
Karen Pollard, a Waterbury resident who had been in the shopping center business, was one of those who had once winced at the eyesore of the 87-acre site. Now, she is very committed to it, as general manager of the Brass Mills Center, which has been widely hailed as a model for how businesses can work with cities in urban renewal. The mall is expected to generate tax revenues of $3 million to $5 million for Waterbury. 
 Ms. Pollard recently discussed the evolution of the project, its influences in the greater Waterbury community and its long-term prospects. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. What does the general manager of a mall do?
A. It's kind of similar to being the mayor of a small town. Day-to-day operations -- facilities management, security, landscaping, engineering, marketing, public relations, advertising, promotional events. Also rent collections and billing. And because this is a public-private partnership, I am very, very involved in the community as well.
No two of my days are even remotely similar. If you need structure or to be able to schedule your time, then forget it. You have to be very flexible, very crisis driven.
Q. How did you become involved with this particular mall?
A. Since I lived in Waterbury and was in this business, I was asked to give the original developers, Homart, a tour of the property. I was asked by some people in Waterbury to be on the Downtown Economic Development Committee. A big part of what we did was to analyze what the city and community felt the mall should be like and what kind of requirements we felt should be met. Eventually, General Growth Properties asked me to work for them.
Q. What did the committee want to see in the mall?
A. They wanted a quality project that would incorporate some of the history and some of the architectural elements of what had been here in the Scovill site. They wanted to make sure that we didn't wall ourselves off. They wanted something that would flow to the downtown as opposed to creating a wall that would keep people from going downtown.
Q. Has more business been generated for downtown Waterbury?
A. Since we opened, people from the suburbs who did not ordinarily feel comfortable or safe coming to Waterbury now come on a regular basis -- to the Seven Angels Theater, for instance, which is adjacent to us, or to downtown restaurants.
However, the downtown has not yet put together their plan for revitalization. There are three elements: the Palace Theater area, the downtown area and the East Main Street area. Committees are working on each and I work with those committees.
The Governor is looking into giving us anywhere between $50 million and $100 million to work on these projects. But because there is no plan in place, nothing has yet changed in terms of more restaurants, more retails, more reasons for someone to go there. As a matter of fact, when the mall opened a number of the retails closed and came into the mall. So it's really hard to say that we are or are not having a major impact.
Q. Clearly, then, this mall is part of a plan to revitalize the businesses of Waterbury and by extension the quality of life for its citizens.
A. This was the catalyst to jumpstart the rejuvenation of the city. We are in essence the gateway to Waterbury. We're visible from the highway. Waterbury actually is a neat little city. We have some beautiful art and architecture, a fantastic symphony, a performing arts theater, a ballet.
Q. Not too far away from here you have the Danbury Fair Mall, the Meriden Square Mall, the West Farms Mall. Why another mall?
A. We had no critical mass of retail here, in an area with 340,000 people in a 10-mile mile radius. And with couples working, everybody running around, you have to drive the kids everywhere, people don't have half a day anymore to do the shopping. It used to take me 30 or 40 minutes to drive to a critical mass of retailers. I always felt that we needed a mall nearby.
Q. Hoyts Cinema built a 12-screen complex in this mall. How crucial was it to the plan?
A. It was very important. Fifteen years ago, 30 percent of a mall's business was viewed as ready to wear, women's apparel. Now women's apparel is under 20 percent of a mall's business. So we had to find a niche for growth. Because downtowns have deteriorated, malls have emerged as the environment where people can go, a destination above and beyond the shopping experience. And that's dining and entertainment.
We really concentrate on sit-down restaurants. We have Ruby Tuesday's, Bertucci's, in December we will be opening Trout Brook Brew Pub from Hartford. And then the theater and these restaurants play off each other.
We also own the 200,000-square-foot Commons adjacent to the mall. And there we have a Chili's, a Barnes and Noble, and a Shaw's will open there, and TGI Friday's is coming.
Q. What interest does a Chicago company have in Waterbury?
A. We have a $160 million investment to protect here. How much success and growth this mall will enjoy will be directly related to Waterbury's growth and prosperity.
Q. When the mall opened there was talk of state employment organizations, like Connecticut Works and Work Force Connection, working with the shops to hire the unemployed and disadvantaged. How successful have those programs been?
A. Fantastic. The Connecticut Works program put together a committee. They started it in absolutely the right attitude and approach. They brought in me and the managers of the department stores and said, "We want to know how to help you stock your stores with employees. What do you need? What kind of training can we provide?" They had a job bank of, I think, somewhere around 9,000 people. A lot of people were hired.
Q. Time magazine recently ran a cover story, "Kiss Your Mall Goodbye!" on the growth of Internet shopping. Could the Internet make malls obsolete?
Q. I don't think that a computer can ever take the place of the experience. People look for things to do with whatever spare time they have, and when you offer them an enjoyable environment, the experience is something people want. And the modern mall has food, it has theaters, and we host all kinds of community programs.
Q. How can the mall use the Internet?
A. As a marketing tool. Stores can advertise their products as well as daily or weekly specials. The Internet could actually help us draw more people to the mall.
Q. This mall has been celebrated for its public-private partnership. Has it led to any other collaborations in and around Waterbury?
A. Of any community I have worked with, and I have worked in a lot, I have never, ever seen a community more willing to spend not just money but time and energy to ensure its success in every way.
The Naugatuck Valley Development Corporation, the city agency which administered the $36 million in state and Federal money for cleanup, appointed the Design Review Committee. It's composed of residents, architects, engineers, and others. We could not build anything, we couldn't do landscaping, we could do nothing without their approval. The committee still exists. And they stuck to their guns -- we don't have a Golden Arches, for instance. It's been a remarkable relationship.
The Chamber of Commerce and many local economic development constituencies are meeting regularly to build consensus for renewal. The city just built a new courthouse, there are plans for new office buildings, and some of the hotels are getting remodeled. All of that is because of what happened here. You need something to bring people in, that suggests you can turn around what was an eyesore.
Q. As the Brass Mill Center nears its first birthday, how successful has it been in financial terms?
A. We average about 22,000 people a day. We had originally projected doing around $290-300 per square foot in our first year. An average mall does about $230. We have done over $350 a foot in our first year. And we're only about 80 percent occupied right now. This project has been a success in almost every way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Pollard, general manager, at the almost-one-year-old Brass Mills Center Mall and Commons. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: GGP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BRASS MILLS CENTER MALL AND COMMONS (WATERBURY, CONN) GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (84%); MORI SEIKI (UK) LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRASS MILLS CENTER MALL AND COMMONS (WATERBURY, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: WATERBURY (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COPPER ROLLING DRAWING & ALLOYING (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); MAYORS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); EVENT MARKETING (65%); SUBURBS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); 

PERSON: POLLARD, KAREN; TIMLIN, CHARLES D KAREN POLLARD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



13 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
The Cameo Appearance

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. As if meetings didn't already dominate my workday, my company often organizes food- and drink-filled social events in the evening. A shy person, I find these after-work gatherings exhausting, yet realize that failing to attend could hurt my career. Any survival tips?
 
A. Ah, forced bonding with co-workers. Is there any less natural form of socializing known to mankind? Who really wants to let their hair down in front of the boss, or the office lecher, or that boor in the adjoining cubicle who eavesdrops on phone calls? But don't despair. While shunning such schmooze-fests would indeed be ill-advised, no one says you have to hang out all night with these people. You need to learn the sanity-saving art of the tactical strike: Get in, get around and get out. 
 "She's right that she has to attend, but she doesn't have to stay long," said Ronna Lichtenberg, author of "Work Would be Great if It Weren't for the People" (Hyperion, 1998). The key, Ms. Lichtenberg said, is to get more mileage out of the time you do spend at the event. Rather than hiding in a corner for hours, nursing your glass of Merlot, you should grit your teeth and do a swift round of flesh-pressing. "Go and work the crowds really heartily," she counseled. "Spend time with as many people as possible and look as cheerful as possible."
Those 15 minutes or so of super-schmoozing may be taxing, but once you've made your presence felt, you are then free to flee. "The face time is important," said Ginny Rehberg, a consultant with Drake Beam Morin in Boston who specializes in workplace politics and career issues. "Ten minutes and you're out of there. But people think you were there longer because they remember seeing you."
When you feel certain that you have kissed enough cheeks and laughed at enough jokes, check your watch and explain that you, most regrettably, have another commitment. No one need know that the commitment may consist of Chinese take-out and reruns of "E.R." Or perhaps you need to spend time with a significant other or a child -- or a cocker spaniel that needs to be walked.
Yes, the reasons may be terribly superficial. But, hey, so are too many office social events. "So much of what's going on when people are asking you to socialize has to do with the appearance of being part of a team," Ms. Rehberg said. By making an effort to chat with co-workers before disappearing, she said, you send out the reassuring message that you consider yourself one of them.
Distasteful though it may be, participating in office-bonding sessions will earn you not only valuable points, but also the right to bow out of an occasional gathering. If you can predict which events are likely to be particularly odious (cocktail parties, as opposed to breakfast meetings; birthday lunches versus picnics), save up your attendance chits and skip the one or two events a month that are guaranteed to make your flesh crawl.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she will respond to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DRAKE BEAM MORIN INC (53%); DRAKE BEAM MORIN-JAPAN INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PARTIES (SOCIAL) DOGS (73%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



14 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Russian Champions on the Stamford Ice

BYLINE: By DOMINIC MARIANI 

 BODY:
AMONG the victims of the recent economic collapse in Russia have been public buildings, left in decline as more urgent problems clamor for fixes. One of those is the Yubileiny Palace of Sports ice rink in St. Petersburg, where the reigning Olympic gold and silver medal-winning pairs of skaters trained.
So what did Oksana Kazakova and her partner, Artur Dmitriev, (gold medal) and Elena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze (silver medal) do to train for coming events? 
 They came to America, specifically to the Stamford Twin Rinks, as the guests of Fairfield County families whose children also skate at Twin Rinks. "I have always had luck, and I am lucky that we were invited here," said their coach, Tamara Moskvina, who along with her husband, Igor Moskvin, is known for the St. Petersburg style of skating. "It was cheaper and easier to come here than for us to train in Moscow."
The group and its choreographer are armed with three-year visas and are training largely for competitions to be held in the United States.
Frank and Emily Cassella, the directors of skating for the Stamford Twin Rinks, extended the invitation to the Russians and also arranged for the local families to be hosts for them. Mr. Cassella is a former national champion and the couple has been teaching skaters for 20 years.
"The experience has been great for our students," Ms. Cassella said of the Russians' appearance. "We've got about 200 kids who are getting the chance to see and be around Olympic champions."
"Most lower and middle level coaches in Russia have already left for good," Mr. Cassella pointed out. "There has been an explosion of interest in skating and ice sports here that has coincided with the poor economic situation over there."
The entire Russian contingent speaks laudable English which they've studied and practiced during their many tours here. Last year they spent nearly three months on American soil -- and ice.
At the Twin Rinks in Stamford, the skating practices are open and free to the public, although seating is limited to about 300. The American Olympians Tara Lipinski and Nicole Bobek have also trained there, as well as Surya Bonaly, the French women's champion.
But it is the Russians who have dominated pairs skating for the last generation, winning every Olympic gold medal since 1964. And Mr. Dmitriev is the first male to have won it twice.
Underscoring the Russian depth in the sport, the Olympic silver medalists beat the gold medal pair at the most recent world championships.
Or, as Ms. Moskvina puts it, "The currency may change, the rink may need repair, but the quality of the Russian skating always remains the same."
When asked by Barbara Innamorati of Westport, with whom Ms. Kazakova stayed for a couple of weeks, why the Russians are so pre-eminent, Ms. Moskvina indicated that it was a complex blend of tradition, coaching, attitude, social and financial conditions and a deep-grained knowledge of the sport.
"Remember also that under the Soviet system everyone could skate because it was free," she said. "We had access and became dedicated, and since we were a closed society we worked hard at what we had without distractions."
How do the Connecticut families feel about having the Russians in their homes?
"It has been absolutely delightful," said Ms. Innamorati, a manager in mergers and acquisitions with Xerox. "The kids seem to be benefiting just by their being around."
Her son, Daniel, began skating outside at Longshore Park last winter and liked it so much he signed up for a program at Twin Rinks in May with the Ukrainian coach Victor Baryshevtev.
Maomi Anderson of Wilton, vice president of the Springdale Skating Club (based at the Twin Rinks), is the hostess for Elena Berezhnaya and the group's choreographer, Alexander Matveev, who just recently arrived. Her daughter, Gwen, has been skating with the Cassellas for five years.
Ms. Berezhnaya "has become part of the family. Not only does she give Gwen skating tips, she even helps with her Spanish homework," Ms. Anderson said.
"Oksana, Elena and I went to Brighton Beach grocery shopping last week and that was a lot of fun because everyone speaks Russian there. Elena then made us a delicious chicken borscht."
Howard Eison and his wife, Randy, of Weston, were hosts of Mr. Dmitriev and Mr. Sikharulidze. The Eison children, Kaile, 10, and Daniel, 12, are both pair skaters.
"Having Olympic champions living in our home is just like having a dream come true for our kids," Mr. Eison said. "They've always worked hard at skating, but I've noticed they're even more inspired with Artur and Anton around. And the cultural interchange has been enlightening."
The Russian coaches have been staying with Marlyn Gladieux of New Canaan, whose daughter Amanda, 11, also skates in Stamford.
"This is an experience we'll cherish for years," she said. "They can stay as long as they like."
Igor Moskvin was a Soviet pairs champion In the mid-50's and first coached, then married Tamara, who finished fourth in the 1968 Olympics and coached gold and silver medalists in 1984, a silver medalist in 1988, a gold and silver in 1992, a silver in the odd year 1994 and a gold and silver again this past winter in Nagano, Japan.
Tamara Moskvina often puts pairs of skaters together. If they have the right chemistry to work with each other, she becomes their coach, trainer, teacher, manager, agent and counselor.
"Believe me, you have to become a psychological counselor, almost like a marriage counselor," she said. "You almost have to hypnotize the couple to continue working toward the specific goal of becoming a champion. One thing I am for sure is a good diplomat."
Ms. Moskvina is one of six people from the various skating disciplines to be appointed to the Coaches Commission of the International Skating Union. She earns a living through a combination of government stipend, fees for various competitions and prize money. (The skaters can earn money through union-sanctioned events, but retain amateur status.)
According to the coach, skaters typically start as early as the age of 5 and she usually comes into the picture when they're anywhere from 15 to 17. "I look for complements in height, weight, technique, body look an a certain psychological sympathy between the two skaters," she explained.
Pairs skaters typically train for two sessions daily. They spend three hours on the ice and two hours off, working on the interwoven network of elements like music, costumes, ballet, conditioning and performing that are demanded on the world championship level.
In exchange for ice time at Twin Rinks, Ms. Moskvina and Mr. Moskvin and the skaters have volunteered to offer pointers to promising American skaters like Kyota Ina and John Zimmerman, who both moved to Stamford recently to take advantage of the Russian training, as well as to give advice to the host families' children.
"We want to be grateful guests and share our knowledge," Ms. Moskvina said.
As Mr. Zimmerman sees it, "There's nothing like skating with and against the best in the world. And getting the chance to work with Tamara is priceless."
The fact that Elena Berezhnaya is even skating is a near miracle. In 1995, while practicing camel spins with her then-partner in Latvia, she suffered a life-threatening injury when his blade accidentally smashed into her skull. She was hospitalized for two operations and lost her ability to speak and to write.
Though told she would need six months to recuperate and that she might not ever skate again, she was back on the ice in three months and working with Mr. Sikharulidze toward the world title they won this year.
Like the others she is uncertain about what the future will bring for her country. "Right now we all just wait and see what happens," she said. "Maybe we can go back to our country, maybe it's better to stay here. We don't yet know."
After repeatedly demonstrating to Ms. Ina and Mr. Zimmerman how to make a certain spin-throw, Mr. Sikharulidze was asked if he wasn't afraid of giving away too many secrets.
"No, we don't have any secrets," he said. "Once we perform in public everything we do is open to all. If you can do it better, then you are the champion."
Mr. Dmitriev, a three-time Olympic medal winner, likes the quality of the ice in Stamford, intimating that it is better than the Yubileiny Palace rink at its best.
"We will have to go back home sometime early next year, for a rest, to make new costumes and to get some new ideas," he said. "But we have a lot or work here. We have a 10-week tour, a month off, then another 10-week tour.
"It's a good job," he shrugged, "but a job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze, other skaters and their coaches, have moved their practice from St. Petersburg to the Stamford Twin Rinks. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: STAMFORD TWIN RINKS (CONN)

ORGANIZATION: STAMFORD TWIN RINKS (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SPORTS AWARDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ICE SKATING (90%); ATHLETES (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MARIANI, DOMINIC; KAZAKOVA, OKSANA; DMITRIEV, ARTHUR; BEREZHNAYA, ELENA; SIKHARULIDZE, ANTON MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



15 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In / Great Neck Estates, L.I.;
Elegance With a Protected Tranquillity

BYLINE: By VIVIEN KELLERMAN 

 BODY:
HALF the roads in Great Neck Estates are laid out to resemble an English garden, gently curving and lined with gnarled old trees. And landscaped islands help to create a relaxing maze of streets that never seem to end.
Many of the homes in this village hugging Little Neck Bay and the Queens border are massive Tudors, colonials and Mediterraneans. F. Scott Fitzgerald lived in Great Neck Estates with his wife, Zelda, and is reputed to have written a short story there that eventually became "The Great Gatsby." One home was designed by Stanford White, another by Frank Lloyd Wright. Even beyond the oldest part of the village, in areas where long-line ranches dominate, the community suggests elegance and calm. 
 "Residents here take great pride in the tranquillity of the village, and are fierce about protecting it," said Mayor Lawrence Nadel.
 The village has laws barring the felling of trees without a permit or taking up too much of the property in building or expanding houses, said Mr. Nadel. It was also the first community on Long Island to curtail the use of power blowers in the summer.
Residents of Great Neck Estates enjoy the protection of a 13-member police force, have the use of a five-acre park, marina, swimming pool and tennis courts. Their children attend a highly regarded school system. Shopping is easy along the village's northeastern border, Middle Neck Road, where about 70 stores provide 10 percent of the village's tax base.
Single-family homes in the village range from about $350,000 for a three-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath colonial on about one-quarter acre to more than $1 million, said David Lurie, owner-broker of Lurie Realty Company in next-door Great Neck. A typical high-end house would be a two-and-a-half-story contemporary, with five bedrooms and four-and-a-half baths on half an acre.
Most houses were built in the 20's and 30's. About 25 percent of the houses were built after World War II and range in price from $800,000 to $900,000, said Mr. Lurie.
Mr. Lurie said that except for spot building of some subdivided lots, there is no new construction in the village. But many people are renovating, he said.
The 67-unit Kenwood Gardens, built in 1927 and advertised as a co-op with luxurious apartments, cost $1.5 million to construct, or $14 million in today's dollars. Two-bedroom units now sell for about $200,000, three-bedrooms for about $250,000, said Mr. Lurie.
During the 1930's, he said, the basement of the building housed servants who worked for the apartment owners. Small cubicles serving as bed chambers ran the length of the building and servants shared a communal kitchen and bath. The basement is now used for storage.
Mr. Lurie said the market was quite strong in Great Neck Estates, despite the high prices of the homes.
HOWARD WEITZMAN, who served as Mayor from 1989 to 1995, said that he discovered Great Neck Estates in 1977 when his first child, Cathy, now 26, was getting ready to attend school.
"I looked all over Nassau County and decided after really researching that what I was looking for, I would find in Great Neck Estates," said Mr. Weitzman. "It's as close as you can get to living near the city and still be in the suburbs. It's close to everything."
He and his wife, Susan, a landscape designer with a home office, raised their three children in the village. And, said Mr. Weitzman, as they expected, the school district provided them with the best education.
"All of my children got into the best colleges," he said.
The 5,900-student Great Neck Union Free School District, which serves the 12 Great Neck Peninsula communities and part of New Hyde Park, has one Early Childhood Center, four K-5 elementary schools, two middle schools and two high schools, said Schools Superintendent William Shine.
Between 1970 and 1982, when enrollment declined, five schools were closed. But the buildings are still in use -- one for adult-education programs, another for citizenship and literacy programs, a third for a center for the elderly and after-school program, the fourth for a joint program with Manhasset to provide pre-kindergarten to economically deprived children and the fifth as an alternative high school.
The district's kindergarten program consists of classes with no more than 20 pupils attending four half-days and a week. One day a week they stay for the full day.
Last June, 96 percent of the district's 462 graduates of its North High School and South High School went on to higher education. There were four Merit Scholarship finalists and three winners. Four students were semifinalists in the Westinghouse Science Competition and three were finalists.
One student, Michael McNabb, a senior at North High, was selected as a United States Presidential Scholar, an honor that goes to up to 141 graduating seniors in the nation each year. Selection is based on achievement in academic and artistic endeavors, leadership and involvement in the community.
The high schools offer 21 advanced placement courses, including separate courses on Vergil and Latin literature; there are at least two computers in every elementary school classroom, with a goal of five, and a dedicated cable channel is used for after-school programs and a technology course.
The five-acre Waterfront Park on Little Neck Bay has a stone promenade where residents can view the Manhattan skyline in the distance. The park has an Olympic-sized pool and a kiddie pool, which is open Memorial Day through Labor Day. Residents pay $200 for a family season pass.
There are seven tennis courts, three of them enclosed. Family passes for outdoor tennis are $120 a full year. Indoor passes range from $600 to $1,300, depending on days and times. The village marina offers a boat launching service at $500 a season and free mooring. A baseball field, soccer field, basketball and handball court, playground and benches complete the picture. To use the park residents need a parking sticker, available free of charge at Village Hall.
The village also has two wetland preserves -- the Nature Preserve with a walking trail and Pond Park -- with a total of about four acres.
IN the summer, a day camp for village children aged 4 to 6 offers swimming lessons, arts and crafts, dancing and sports at no cost. Fifty children were enrolled in the camp last summer, said Mayor Nadel, in a village of only 2,811 people, indicating that many young families are moving in.
Residents have 11 village restaurants to choose from on Middle Neck Road. Among them, La Pizzeria, a kosher pizzeria, Tortilla Grill, for Tex-Mex food, Shishkabob Palace for Middle Eastern, two Chinese and several Italian restaurants, among them Navona, where the comedian Alan King, a resident of nearby Kings Point has a special table, according to Mayor Nadel.
The earliest settlers in the Great Neck Estates area were the Matinecock Indians who lived along the shore. Around 1625, the tribal leaders sold their lands to a representative of Charles I of England, Lord William Alexander Sterling, a poet and statesman, for about 11 cents an acre. The land was then sold to 50 patentees. In 1630, Richard Thorne, a farmer, purchased the property that became the village. The Thorne family held the property until 1909.
For most of its early history, farming was the primary source of income and the community remained sparsely settled. In 1862, the Long Island Rail Road began service to neighboring Great Neck, cutting the time to the city from seven and a half hours to a little more than an hour.
By the time the village was incorporated in 1911, it had 15 houses and 60 residents. Among the celebrities who moved into the village in the 20's, besides the Fitzgeralds, were Ring Lardner, Fanny Brice and Ed Wynn.
In 1939, the Soundview Golf Course was sold to private developers, who began building after World War II. The former golf course area represents about 25 percent of the village.
Ilsa Kagen, the village historian and former president of the Great Neck Estates Civic Association, moved into Great Neck Estates in 1960. She said she and her late husband, Richard, a tax lawyer, had chosen the community after learning about the school district's fine reputation. Her daughter, Mici, a lawyer, who was educated in the district, is a Harvard graduate.
"It's a very convenient village," she said. "We're not that far from stores, we have the pool, tennis courts, marina. And it's just plain gorgeous. It's just wonderful to be living here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Frank Lloyd Wright house, above left, on Myrtle Road and a man-sion on Northclover Drive, left. Couple stroll in Waterfront Park, above, which looks out to Little Neck Bay. "On the Market": 4-bedroom, 2-bath colonial, granite eat-in kitchen at 4 South Drive, $479,000. 4-bedroom, 3-bath colonial, c/a, 2-car garage, fireplace at 43 Maple Drive, $569,000. 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath ranch, finished basement, sun deck at 16 Hillcrest Drive, $1.5 million.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 2,811 (1997 Lilco estimate).
 
 AREA: 0.8 square miles.
 
 MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $150,416 (1997 L.I. Regional Planning Board census update).
 
 MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $585,000.
 
 TAXES ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $7,800.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $509,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $494,000.
 
 MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CO-OP: $2O0,000.
 
 PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $17,772.
 
 DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 18 miles.
 
 RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 28 minutes on Long Island Rail Road, $6.25 one way, $135 monthly.
 
 GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Lawrence Nadel) and four Council members, all elected to two-year terms.
 
 CODES: Area, 516: ZIP, 11021.
 
 DESIGN FOR LIVING: In 1909, an international contest was held offering a $10,000 prize for the best design of what is now known as Great Neck Estates. The contest -- sponsored by Richard McKnight, an Englishman who had purchased 600 acres from the Thorne family, which had owned the property since 1630 -- was won by C. E. Bartlett, a well-known English landscape architect. The winning plan called for a clover-leaf design for the village, which was incorporated two years later. Ilsa Kagen, the village historian, said vistors often complain that they can't find their way around. "I can't think of a better place to get lost in," she said.
 
Map of Nassau County, highlighting Great Neck Estates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREAT NECK UNION FREE SCHOOL DISTRICT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREAT NECK UNION FREE SCHOOL DISTRICT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT NECK (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MAYORS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: KELLERMAN, VIVIEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



16 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Westchester;
Two Soaring Proposals for Low-Scale New Rochelle

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE

 BODY:
THINGS are definitely looking up for this city on Long Island Sound as it considers two proposals that have nothing in common, except their height. At more than 200 feet, they would be the tallest structures in the city.
On Wednesday, the City Council is to consider whether to allow Avalon Bay Communities, a Real Estate Investment Trust based in Alexandria, Va., to build a 280-foot-tall, 24-story luxury rental as part its long-awaited Avalon on the Sound project, which is expected to eventually comprise 1,000 apartments in three separate buildings. 
 Also on the table will be another, more unusual proposal for a 220-foot free-fall ride called Space Shot, which the developer Louis Cappelli wants to build atop NewRoc City, the three-story entertainment/retail center now rising in the city's downtown.
These two new proposals are the latest additions to projects that have been in the pipeline for years. Advocates of the projects say that they will be catalysts for this city's economic revival, especially for its deteriorating downtown.
The 375,000-square-foot NewRoc City, which is expected to open next summer, will comprise a 20-screen movie theater, the county's first IMAX large-screen movie theater, twin ice skating rinks, a supermarket, health club, restaurant and hotel.
Avalon on the Sound, which still has to receive its final approvals, is expected to start construction in the spring and take about 18 months to complete the first phase, according to Fred Harris, vice president for development for Avalon.
Prior to submitting its latest plan for a 24-story building, Avalon had already received approvals to build 1,000 apartments in three 14-story buildings. Then last month, the developer resubmitted plans calling for the taller building, which would have a total of 408 one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments.
The 24-story building would constitute the first phase of the project, according to Mr. Harris. At this time, the second and third phases will probably be the two 14-story buildings, as originally planned, "but we're not really thinking about too much about the other phases yet," Mr. Harris said, adding that "we want to build the first building and then see what happens."
Of the two new proposals, Avalon's appears the most likely to come to fruition, according to Joseph Madonna, the city's Commissioner of Development. "I think there's a lot of support for it," he said. "It's actually a more exciting and aesthetically pleasing building than the first one they proposed."
Due to the building's extra height, the City Council would have to pass an amendment to the city's comprehensive plan, said Mr. Madonna. The planning board would thenhave to approve a revised site plan, he explained.
"I don't think the impacts are that different from the former proposal," said Anthony Carbone, chairman of the Planning Board. "I don't expect a lot of controversy." The reason for changing the building's height was to "capitalize on the views," according to Mr. Harris. "We also wanted to create a more luxurious building, the kind of high rise you'd see in Manhattan," he said. The new plan, he added, also "represents our confidence in the market now for luxury rentals."
The L-shaped building will occupy a site near the Metro-North train station and will tower over a city comprised mostly of single-family homes, and several much smaller apartment buildings. Designed by Beyer Blinder Belle, of Manhattan, the brick-and-limestone building will take maximum advantage of its sight lines, said Karen Thomas, project architect.
"The east side of the building will look out on the Long Island Sound and the west will have views of New York City's skyline," Ms. Thomas said. And all apartments will have bay windows and a large percentage will have balconies.
Half of the 408 apartments will be one-bedrooms, the balance two- and three-bedrooms. "The top three floors will be penthouses," Ms. Thomas said. "They will be set back from the top, as in steps. Each will have large paved terraces and, perhaps, floor-to-ceiling windows." The interior designs are still being worked out.
Atop a 200-car parking garage, there will be a swimming pool, clubhouse and rooftop terrace, with landscaping and sitting areas. The ground floor of the apartment building will also include a small retail component.
Avalon now has two luxury rentals under construction in the county, a 227-unit project in Mamaroneck and one with 110 units in Bronxville. Although rents at the New Rochelle building have not yet been established, they should be in line with those in the other projects, Mr. Harris said. In Bronxville, for example, one bedrooms start at $1,700 and three bedrooms at $$3,600.
While Avalon's latest proposal was expected by the city, Mr. Madonna said, the plans for the Space Shot seem to have come completely out of the blue. "People are concerned about this one because this city is not a resort town," Mr. Madonna said. "As far as adding it to an entertainment and shopping center in the heart of the city, I'm not sure it will go with everything else."
MR. CAPPELLI, a general partner with Cappelli Development Company, of Valhalla, who is a partner in NewRoc City, said that he recently had held a meeting to explain his proposal to the community, and only around 15 people showed up.
"I think that's encouraging because usually only the people who oppose a project show up at meetings," Mr. Cappelli said. "By the time the meeting was over, only one person was still against it."
When the Space Shot proposal goes before the planning board, "it will be judged on its merits the same as any other proposal," said Mr. Carbone. One of his major concerns, however, is the potential noise. "I heard that the machine is relatively quiet since it uses compressed air," he said, "but what about the screaming?"
The proposed ride would sit atop the three-story center. Twelve people would be strapped into seats outside a tower. They would be rocketed into the air and then dropped 180 feet, temporarily escaping gravity and floating above their seats.
Construction of the ride, more than 50 versions of which have been built in 18 countries, is expected to cost $2.5 million. Mr. Cappelli said he was willing to build it on a trial basis for three years. "If the city doesn't like it after that time, I can take it down.
"I think it's the perfect complement to an entertainment center," Mr. Cappelli said. "I'm not trying to create an amusement park. This is meant to continue the experience people get from the movies and the IMAX theater. I don't want people to just go to the movies and then go home."
Mr. Cappelli added that traditionally it had been hard to get people to "go vertical" in a center of this kind. "If people go up the escalator just out of curiosity, the ride will be worth it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of 24-story rental tower proposed for New Rochelle by Avalon Bay Communities. (V. Yeliseyev)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AVALON BAY COMMUNITIES REAL ESTATE FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT CO SAL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVALON BAY COMMUNITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ROCHELLE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); FILM (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); MOVIE THEATERS (66%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); WINTER SPORTS (50%); ICE SKATING (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



17 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: An Election, Yes, But Congressional Races, Not Really;
Challenger Making Money an Issue

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
IT bothers Congressman Forbes that his Democratic opponent, Mr. Holst, a Suffolk County legislator, is bringing up contributions Mr. Forbes received from tobacco companies.
Mr. Forbes, 46, a Republican, would rather dwell on his efforts to clean up Brookhaven National Laboratory, combat breast cancer, expand the Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge, create a new Federal land preserve near the old Grumman plant in Calverton, ban toxic dumping in Long Island Sound and bring a new veterans health clinic to his eastern Long Island district. 
"I have no idea how much or how little I got from them," said Mr. Forbes, referring to figures showing he received $19,800 from the tobacco industry during his two terms. "I don't vote according to that measure."
Mr. Holst, 46, a lawyer, said the contribution was one of many from political action committees that had enriched Forbes campaigns. "I don't want that kind of money," he said.
People close to Mr. Forbes said Mr. Holst need not worry. His low-budget, uphill fight to unseat Mr. Forbes wouldn't attract outside money from anywhere, they said.
But Mr. Holst, for whom public education and economic development are the highest priorities, said he senses upset in a district that has elected Democrats before. "He is vulnerable with women," Mr. Holst said. "He hasn't made any inroads on issues such as domestic violence and he is radically anti-choice on abortion." Mr. Holst describes himself as pro-choice.
Mr. Forbes, also the Conservative, Independence and Right-to-Life candidate in the race, knows it's a swing district and names one predecessor, Democrat Otis G. Pike of Riverhead, as his role model. Mr. Forbes said last week he will spend about $700,000 to defeat Mr. Holst. "You take nothing for granted," he said.
Mr. Forbes said he had delivered on promises to "restore fiscal integrity in Washington" by joining the House Republican leadership in budget-cutting and in reforms that replaced welfare with workfare.
But, he said, his record also showed he was "not afraid to break with the Republican leadership."
In January 1997, Mr. Forbes was one of nine Republicans who opposed the re-election of Newt Gingrich as House speaker because of his admission of ethics violations. Last July, he also opposed the leadership by voting for a campaign finance reform bill.
For all that, Mr. Holst said, Mr. Forbes was still in lock-step with the leadership on most issues. Mr. Forbes's support for an open-ended Presidential impeachment inquiry, Mr. Holst said, "sets the stage for another two years of personal attacks on President Clinton."
Mr. Forbes said he would "wait and be thoughtful" before making a judgment on whether Mr. Clinton should be impeached. "All of us are weary of this and want it to be brought to a quick conclusion," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOLST; FORBES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS COUNTIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); ETHICS (64%); ABORTION (64%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); BREAST CANCER (57%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (57%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%); 

PERSON: LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); BACE, JOHN C; RATHER, JOHN J RANDY FORBES (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



18 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: How to Be Seen if Voters Aren't Looking

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
LIKE students who frantically wave their hands so their teachers will notice them, candidates for the General Assembly are vying for voter attention in the closing days of the campaign.
In any gubernatorial election year, legislative candidates have to work hard to compete for attention with the more widely known candidates for governor, senator and representative. 
 But in this unusual year, with projections that the races for governor and senator are all but over, they worry that large numbers of voters may not take notice of any of the other contests on the ballot and simply stay home on Tuesday instead of going to the polls.
"The tricky thing is to get voters attentive to the fact that next Tuesday there is an election," said Donald P. Green, a professor of political science at Yale.
Not only are Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, seen as winning easy victories, but also none of the candidates in the two races have raised issues that have generated excitement, he said. "Around these parts, it's very, very drab," Mr. Green concluded.
The polls will be open from 6 A.M. through 8 P.M. in all 169 towns on Tuesday as voters will choose between Mr. Rowland and his Democratic challenger, Barbara B. Kennelly, for Governor, and between Mr. Dodd and his Republican challenger, Gary A. Franks, for United States Senator.
They will also choose the constitutional officers in the state, commonly referred to as the underticket -- 6 United States Representatives, 36 State Senators, 151 State Representatives, Registrars of Voters in 120 towns, 130 Judges of Probate and county sheriffs, the last vestiges of county government in the state.
There are no statewide ballot questions, but there are local questions in 40 municipalities, ranging from extending the mayor's term in Bridgeport to four years from two, to approval of a golf course in Bloomfield.
The latest Quinnipiac College Poll, an independent survey taken Oct. 13 to 19, showed Mr. Rowland with a 48-point lead and Mr. Dodd with a 32-point lead. Howard L. Reiter, a political science professor at the University of Connecticut, said, "Certainly, if Rowland does any better, he'll carry Rhode Island, too."
In the last days of the campaign, candidates are trying to get out the vote with mailings, telephone calls, advertisements and broadcasting commercials, if they can afford them, filling lawns with cardboard signs if they cannot. Following are some of the contests that voters will decide on Tuesday.
General Assembly
 State Senate Majority Leader George Jepsen, a Stamford Democrat, predicted that neither the impeachment investigation of President Clinton in Washington nor Governor Rowland's projected landslide will have a trickle-down effect on legislative races. Mr. Jepsen added: "For all the talk about Lewinsky and Clinton, and Rowland winning by a lot, and all the kind of big picture noise, it's settling down, I believe, into a year where the voters are satisfied with the direction of the state and satisfied with the performance of the legislature."
In Mr. Jepsen's projection, Democrats would retain the majority in the General Assembly. They currently have a 96-55 majority in the House, and a less lopsided 19-17 majority in the Senate.
The Deputy Senate Minority Leader William H. Nickerson, a Greenwich Republican, said that Republicans are hoping to add at least one Senate seat, equalizing representation and giving the Republicans an advantage in tie votes, assuming that Mr. Rowland wins. The Lieutenant Governor presides over the Senate and votes in the event of a tie.
M. Jodi Rell, of Ridgefield, is seeking re-election as Lieutenant Governor and former State Representative Joseph Courtney, of Vernon, is the Democrat running for the post. Candidates for governor and lieutenant governor run as a team, with their names in the same slot on the ballot.
The State Senate race in the 22d District, which includes Trumbull and sections of Bridgeport and Monroe, is being closely watched by both parties. A Democrat, William Finch, a Bridgeport alderman, is waging an aggressive campaign against the incumbent Republican, Angelina Lee Scarpetti, of Trumbull. Two years ago, Mr. Finch ran an unsuccessful, but competitive, campaign against United States Representative Christopher Shays, the Fourth District Republican. Mrs. Scarpetti attracted attention as a senator when she challenged the renomination of Superior Court Judge Leander Gray for not imposing a stricter penalty than a small fine on a man who was convicted of molesting a 4-year-old girl. Mr. Gray ultimately withdrew from consideration for the judgeship. A Libertarian candidate, Carl E. Vassar, is also running for the Senate seat.
Family connections are attracting attention in the race in the 28th Senate District, which is based in Fairfield. The Republican incumbent, Fred Lovegrove, did not seek re-election. The Democratic candidate, Thomas G. Ganim, a brother of Mayor Joseph Ganim of Bridgeport, is running against John McKinney, son of the deceased Congressman Stewart B. McKinney.
Mr. Ganim, of Easton, who unsuccessfully sought the seat in 1996, criticized Mr. McKinney for his law firm's representation of United States Tobacco in Greenwich and contended that the Republican altered his resume to hide that.
Mr. McKinney, of Fairfield, said that he had done work on behalf of the tobacco company, but denied changing his resume. He also charged that Mr. Ganim would be more interested in representing Bridgeport, his brother's city, than the suburban senatorial district, which takes in Fairfield, Easton and Newtown. Mr. McKinney has made sure that voters know he is the son of the popular Congressman, who died in 1987. Even his campaign logo closely resembles his father's.
Another State Senate candidate unintentionally made the same connection when a party letter went to voters mistakenly stating that the Republican, Robert Pero, running in the 20th District in six eastern Connecticut towns is the son of the the elder Mr. McKinney. Timothy A. Longino, legislative director of the Senate Republicans, said that 26,000 people in the New London area received the letter.
Elsewhere, a former Republican State Chairman, Robert S. Poliner, of Durham, has received major labor union endorsements, unusual for a Republican, in his challenge to the incumbent Democratic Senator, Eileen M. Daily, of Westbrook, in the 33d District, which includes 14 towns.
Underticket
In the races for the non-gubernatorial statewide offices, widely known as the underticket, there will be a new Secretary of the State.
The incumbent Democrat, Miles S. Rapoport, opted against seeking re-election, and ran unsuccessfully in a Democratic primary in the First Congressional District.
State Representative Susan Bysiewicz of Middletown, became the Democratic candidate for Secretary of the State after defeating State Representative Ellen Scalleter of Woodbridge in a primary. Ben Andrews, of Simsbury, former president of the state's N.A.A.C.P. chapter is the Republican candidate.
Paul J. Silvester, the West Hartford Republican who was named treasurer after Christopher B. Burnham resigned, is being challenged by Denise Nappier, a Democrat and the Hartford city treas urer.
Richard Blumenthal, a Stamford Democrat, is seeking his third term as State Attorney General. His Republican opponent is Santa Mendoza, a lawyer with the Connecticut Business and Industry Association.
In the race for State Comptroller, the Democratic incumbent, Nancy S. Wyman, of Tolland, is being challenged by Christopher Scalzo, a Republican State Representative from Ridgefield.
There are minor party candidates in all of the underticket races and in many of the other statewide and district contests.
 
Senate and Governor
The United States Senate and gubernatorial races have not been competitive from the start, according to most polls.
Mr. Green, the Yale political science professor, said that "the complete collapse of the Kennelly campaign has removed that campaign from view and the complete collapse of the Franks campaign has removed that campaign from view. So, the two most prominent elections are as dull as they can possibly be."
In the latest Quinnipiac poll, just 27 percent of respondents said they were "paying a lot of attention" to the campaigns while 68 percent found them "dull."
Mr. Franks, of Waterbury, a former Congressman in the Fifth District, has criticized Mr. Dodd's attendance record in Congress and his travels out of state while serving as general chairman of the national Democratic party. Mr. Franks supports a flat tax to replace the Federal income tax, as well as a Constitutional amendment banning flag burning.
Mr. Dodd, who is seeking a fourth six-year-term, has said that health, education, the economy and crime are the issues, not him. One of his major successes was the Family and Medical Leave Act, which provides workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a new baby or ailing relative.
He has far outspent Mr. Franks, who, in 1996, lost his bid for a fourth term in Congress to James Maloney, a Democrat.
In the gubernatorial race, Mr. Rowland said he has cut taxes more than any governor in state history, and cited welfare changes, four budget surpluses and increased aid to cities as other accomplishments.
Mrs. Kennelly's campaign theme has stressed that there are two Connecticuts -- the prosperous and the needy, particularly the elderly residents being deserted by health maintenance organizations.
She has been the United States Representative from the First District in the Hartford area since 1982 and previously served as Secretary of the State on the Hartford City Council.
 
Congress
The campaign to succeed Mrs. Kennelly in the First Congressional District, is the only House race in Connecticut in which an incumbent is not running. The Democratic candidate, John B. Larson of East Hartford, a former leader of the State Senate, is facing Kevin J. O'Connor of Wethersfield, a Republican.
In other Congressional races drawing interest from national campaign organizations of both parties, Mr. Maloney, a Danbury Democrat, is facing State Senator Mark Nielsen, a Danbury Republican, in the Fifth District, which includes Danbury, Waterbury and Meriden.
In the Sixth District in the northwestern section of the state, Nancy L. Johnson, a New Britain Republican, is being challenged by Charlotte G. Koskoff of Plainville, who narrowly lost a race with Mrs. Johnson two years ago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The candidates, from left: Gary A. Franks, Republican, challenging Senator Christopher J. Dodd, and Gov. John G. Rowland, being challenged by the Democrat Barbara B. Kennelly. (From left: Associated Press, Carla Cataldi, Associated Press, George Ruhe)(pg. 1); After debate, John G. Rowland and Barbara B. Kennelly go separate ways. (Associated Press)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) DEPUTY SENATE (74%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY STATE SENATE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) DEPUTY SENATE (74%); GENERAL ASSEMBLY STATE SENATE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); COUNTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); SHERIFFS (72%); PROBATE (70%); GOLF (69%); IMPEACHMENT (64%); 

PERSON: FRANKS, GARY A; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); KENNELLY, BARBARA B; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); MCCARTHY, PEGGY CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TRENT FRANKS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



19 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / New Jersey;
Developer Named for a Key Hoboken Riverfront Site

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
WITH a small, timeworn gatehouse and piles of rubble inland from a 700-foot-long pier that is sinking into the Hudson River, the waterfront block between Third and Fourth Streets in Hoboken is not much to look at. But that may soon change.
Last month a development team was selected to build a 12-story, E-shaped rental building on the inland portion of the block -- one of a three-block row that is crucial to this old port city's plan to rebuild its waterfront. The rental building will have 522 apartments, studios to three-bedrooms, more than 51,000 square feet of retail space and a parking garage for nearly 500 cars. 
 The $90-million project is to be developed by the Applied Companies of Hoboken and Starwood Heller L.L.C. Starwood Heller is a joint venture of Heller Enterprises of Edgewater and Starwood Opportunity Fund IV, an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn.
The announcement of the selection of a development team comes at a time when a spate of other residential projects, most of them rentals, are under construction along the 18-mile stretch of the Hudson River shoreline from Bayonne to Fort Lee, as developers scramble to take advantage of what they say is a pent-up demand for housing at the water's edge. Most of the projects are concentrated between Jersey City and Edgewater.
The development site in Hoboken, known as Block C, is the northernmost of the three riverfront blocks, extending from First to Fourth Streets, that once formed the heart of the city's shipping industry and are now targeted for redevelopment into a new urban neighborhood.
Efforts to revive Hoboken's long-dormant southern waterfront were snarled in a debate between the city and community groups for more than a decade. In the course of the wrangling, two earlier plans were defeated by voters in referendums. But in 1995 a plan emerged that both sides agreed was acceptable.
The plan, drawn up with public input, calls for the city, in partnership with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, to reshape the three blocks totaling 50 acres into a neighborhood of up to 2.3 million square feet of offices, housing, shops and a hotel, with some 12 acres of open and recreational space at its core. There will also be a public waterfront walkway -- a state requirement for projects so close to the water's edge -- that will reconnect Hoboken to the river for all.
The selection of the development team for Block C moves the plan another step forward and the southern waterfront closer to becoming what Mayor Anthony Russo has described as "an economic powerhouse for the city." A developer is already in place to turn Block A -- the southernmost block, between First and Second Streets and closest to the city's mass transit hub -- into a 14-story 1.1 million square foot office building.
CONSTRUCTION of that building, however, will not take place until a major tenant is found. A developer has not yet been named for the middle block, Block B, where plans call for 650,000 more square feet of offices, 60,000 additional square feet of retail space and a 300-room hotel.
Meanwhile, there are signs of progress. Pier A, jutting out from the southernmost block, is being transformed into a five-acre park -- replete with amphitheater, gazebo and fountain -- that will be opened to the public by March, as will that section of the riverfront walkway. Site work for Block A is under way, including the installation of sewer and water lines as well as a street hugging the water's edge.
Those improvements will be completed early next year and beginning next fall they will be extended to the remaining two blocks, said Gregory A. Matviak, manager of waterfront development for the Port Authority. The agency is committed to investing $80 million in Hoboken for, among other things, public amenities and infrastructure improvements, he said. (Under 1984 bistate legislation the authority was empowered to invest in waterfront projects in Hoboken and Hunters Point, Queens.) The future of Pier C, targeted under the redevelopment plan for recreational use, still must be worked out given its state of disrepair, Mr. Matviak added.
The developers say they intend to start driving piles in April and begin construction by May on the brick-and-cast-stone rental building, which will take 12 to 18 months to complete. It is being designed by Thomas McGinty -- formerly of the Manhattan architectural firm of Beyer Blinder Belle and now with the Applied Companies -- to follow the waterfront redevelopment plan's design guidelines. Among other things, they require that the new buildings complement Hoboken's low-rise scale. The residential structure, unlike the office tower, is free of the constraint of waiting for an anchor tenant and thus is expected to move quickly, said Robert K. Drasheff, director of Hoboken's office of waterfront development.
Mr. Drasheff said the development team had been selected over two others because of its "financial stability and ability to get buildings under way and constructed."
The partners are no strangers to the riverfront. Applied is involved, alone or with partners, in four other residential developments along the Hudson's west bank, including an 1,165-unit Shipyard, now under way on Hoboken's northern riverfront.
Michael I. Barry, a vice president at Applied, said that his company got involved in the southern waterfront project because, "Hoboken is the waterfront's gem and this is its best site." With its proximity to mass-transit links and the recreational amenities "it has a little more to offer," he added.
HOBOKEN is a cosmopolitan community where some major development should be but couldn't until now," said Gene Heller, president of Starwood Heller.
Mr. Heller is involved in two mixed-used waterfront developments in Edgewater that together total some 476 housing units, 272,000 square feet of retail space, a 14-screen movie theater and a 200-room hotel.
Under the 1995 redevelopment plan Hoboken sold its riverfront land to the Port Authority for $28 million. It then leased the land for $1 a year and, in turn, is subleasing parcels to developers. The designated developer of the office building, SJP Properties of Parsippany, has an agreement in principle to lease Block A for 99 years and the developers of the residential structure are negotiating for a similar lease.
In return for the right to build on the land, the Applied-Starwood Heller team will make an annual payment to the city in lieu of taxes. It will begin at $2 a square foot per apartment and rise at a rate still to be negotiated over the life of the lease. The city will also get 35 cents a square foot to maintain the public amenities and infrastructure improvements being done by the Port Authority, and the agency will get land-lease payments starting at $2 a square foot as well as 1 percent of the project revenues before expenses, Mr. Barry said.
While the specifics of the deal are to be ironed out over the next four months, he said, estimates are that the first-year payment to the city and Port Authority will be about $3 million. The 50-acre development area will revert to the city once the bistate agency recoups its investment.
The rental building is advancing as the entire Hudson River shoreline revives and housing is sprouting like wildflowers at its edge. Work is under way, or will soon begin, on housing projects totaling some 2,600 units, most of them luxury rentals, according to the ACI Real Estate Group in Jersey City, a management firm that tracks riverfront statistics.
The construction activity is being spurred by a tight housing market in Manhattan as well as along the New Jersey riverfront, where ACI puts the rental vacancy rate between 1 and 2 percent. Average square-foot rents of $1.90 to $2.20 a month along the riverfront are still 25 percent lower than those in Manhattan, said Robert P. Antonicello, ACI's president. He said a typical 1,000-square-foot two-bedroom riverfront apartment rents for about $2,100 a month.
Mindful of the competition, Mr. Barry of Applied Companies said: "The way we look at it is that a few hundred units a year is not a tremendous of amount of product for this market to absorb."
His company's studio to three-bedroom apartments at the rental building to get under way next spring on the Hoboken riverfront will average 600 to 1,300 square feet in size and, if leased today, would rent at competitive prices of $1,200 to $2,800 a month, said Mr. Barry.
"The best thing the project has going for it is Hoboken," said Mr. Antonicello, the riverfront specialist, "with its restaurants, bars and convenient transportation."

GRAPHIC: Photo/Drawings: Rendering of rental complex, above, being built on Block C by Applied Companies. Michael I. Barry, below, is an Applied vice president.
Thomas McGinty; Rendering of rental complex, above, being built on Block C by Applied Companies of Hoboken (Thomas McGinty), whose president is Michael I. Barry, below. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: STARWOOD HELLER LLC; APPLIED COMPANIES PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (56%); PORT AUTHORITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: STARWOOD HELLER LLC; APPLIED COMPANIES PORT AUTHORITY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOBOKEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); REFERENDUMS (61%); 

PERSON: GREGORY A MATVIAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



20 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: In the State of Contentment, We're Happy, Happy, Happy

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari, an editor at The Times, lives in Connecticut.

 BODY:
THE economy is still strong. The leaves have been breathtaking. The Bluefish had a winning season. What is there to be unhappy about?
Obviously, very little. We Connecticut residents, it seems, are a happy bunch. Ridiculously so. 
 In a recent survey conducted by Quinnipiac College, an astounding 83 percent of the more than 1,200 registered voters polled said they were very or somewhat satisfied with life in this giddy state. It also turns out that Connecticut is the happiest state in the metropolitan region. Well, of course.
"Saying we're content is like saying people in the Vatican are Catholic," said Colin McEnroe, a talk show host at the radio station WTIC in Hartford. "Contentment is the prevailing religion in the state."
Pinning down the reasons is not easy. The results of the poll suggest that it is because we are pleased with our political leaders. I know they would like to think that, but there must be a deeper reason.
Is it because Mercedes has come out with a four-wheel drive or that BMW and Porsche are planning to?
Or maybe we're content because we are close enough to New York to work in the city without actually having to live there? Or that we live far enough away from New Jersey not to have to do either? Then I realized it must be the leaves. The poll was conducted from Oct. 13 to Oct. 19, catching us at a time when we are all outside weeping at the splendor of our own backyards. It's a wonder that anyone bothered to run back inside to answer the pollsters' telephone call.
Douglas Schwartz, the director of the Quinnipiac College Poll, said there might be something to that.
"We asked the question a year ago of what the best thing was about living in Connecticut," he said. "They said it was the beauty."
More likely, all this happiness has its foundation in money.
"It's mainly driven by the economy," Mr. Schwartz said. "People are satisfied about how things are going."
Indeed. Things have gone so well for most of us, we have bounced back so strongly from the recession of a few years ago, that it has done wonders for our mood. Three years ago the same poll found that only 39 percent of us were satisfied with life in the state. But in those three years, Connecticut unemployment has become so low that jobs are going unfilled for lack of workers. The state has the highest per capita income in the nation and Fairfield County, some of the priciest houses. And last summer, Gov. John G. Rowland cut the gasoline tax by a few pennies and sent us tax rebate checks.
The fact is, we are just much more content than other folks. The national satisfaction numbers are at about 63 percent, 20 percentage points below Connecticut. Locally, it's just as bad.
New Jersey also has a strong economy, becoming the first state in the metropolitan region to recover all the jobs lost in the last recession. But are they happy? Not even close. A Quinnipiac poll shows that only 61 percent of New Jerseyans are satisfied. New York State comes in a bit closer at 67 percent. Both those numbers reflect such a widespread sadness that, as our neighbors, we wish we could help. Please, come spend a day at our casinos.
It's New York City that gives Connecticut a run in this regional competition: a surprising 76 percent of New Yorkers, those chronic complainers, are satisfied with life in the city. Mr. Schwartz said it's because of the culture, the lower crime rate and an improving quality of life. You would think having the Yankees would put New York over the top, but, then again, they've also got the Rangers.
Still, even with all its pluses, New York City is not Connecticut. We've got the Merritt Parkway. They've got the Cross Bronx Expressway. They've got Central Park. We have, well, the whole state. We've got Mel Gibson. They've got Woody Allen.
And, of course, we have Powerball.
We also have a long history of suburbanization, and that seems to be another key to our contentment. Bruce Fraser, a historian and executive director of the Connecticut Humanities Council in Middletown, a public cultural foundation, said people in Connecticut were seeking out the suburbs in the 1800's.
Thus Connecticut was decades earlier than most other states in building a functional transportation system between the cities and suburbs. As a result, Connecticut is defined by its suburbs and residents feel passionate about them.
"In Connecticut, towns have an old New England form," Mr. Fraser said. "The passion for the town where everything begins and ends supports the whole suburban notion. Regionalism hasn't taken form here because of the notion that the towns are autonomous."
Mr. McEnroe said that concept filters down to how residents live their lives.
"Connecticut puts a tremendous premium on the idea of having a little cylinder of freedom to lead your autonomous life -- to have your deck, your grill, the kids playing soccer," he said. "There is a clear path to happiness here."
Mr. Fraser said other suburban areas don't have that.
"In other places there is no sense of there there," he said. "It's just part of the sprawling masses. But there is a there here. Connecticut is a place to connect with."
And to think that some New Yorkers could have had all of this. Once, parts of Westchester County were claimed by Connecticut, said Christopher Collier, the State Historian and a professor of history at the University of Connecticut. So were parts of Pennsylvania and Ohio. Even the Hamptons were part of Connecticut.
But all that ended a few hundred years ago when Connecticut withdrew to its tiny, but enviable, borders.
So we may be content because of the economy or the foliage or our sense of community, but it may simply be a matter of history.
"Groups that settled each area left their lasting marks on it," Mr. McEnroe said.
"Fairly blissed-out Congregationalists settled around the Hartford area. New York was much more Tory. Maybe what's bugging them is that they lost the war."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (72%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: QUINNIPIAC COLLEGE QUINNIPIAC COLLEGE POLL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUINNIPIAC COLLEGE QUINNIPIAC COLLEGE POLL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); HOLY SEE (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); RELIGION (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); FUEL TAX (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



21 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 6; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: A Builder Embarks In a New Direction

BYLINE: By DAVID J. WALLACE 

DATELINE: HUNTINGDON VALLEY, Pa.

 BODY:
AFTER devoting 30 years to building upscale homes, Toll Brothers, based in this Philadelphia suburb, has formed a real estate investment trust to build and manage apartments, offices and stores in and near its communities.
The REIT -- Toll Brothers Realty Trust -- broke ground last April on its first venture, Dulles Greene, an 800-apartment complex on a 55-acre site in the Washington suburb of Herndon, Va., in Fairfax County. In adjacent Loudoun County, it has embarked on another venture, a planned community on a 1,045-acre site called Belmont Country Club, which is expected to include 1.8 million square feet of office space, 200,000 square feet of retail space and 1,900 residential units, as well as a private golf course. 
 "The nasty part of the home building business is that when you sell the house, you're done," said Robert I. Toll, chief executive officer at Toll Brothers. "We've wound up with a lot of ground for apartment and office projects. There are several million square feet of space to build. And some of these related businesses are in lockstep with the development, so we've gotten into the security and landscaping businesses. We can put in landscaping and charge less than a contractor."
Toll Brothers, which posted sales of $971 million last year in 16 states, created its REIT by turning over to it the ownership of developable land it has acquired over several years. Instead of selling off some of the land not zoned for homes, as has been customary, Mr. Toll has chosen to develop all of his land and capture fees for development services and rental income from retail and office projects.
As a REIT, the commercial venture can avoid corporate taxes as long as 95 percent of the trust's earnings are distributed to shareholders as dividends. Large-scale development can then be financed by shareholders instead of banks or insurance companies. The shares are usually, but not necessarily, offered to the public. A REIT has great flexibility in executing its business plan, said Gerard H. Sweeney, president of Brandywine Realty Trust, a REIT based in Newtown Square, Pa., that owns about 18 million square feet of office and industrial properties in the mid-Atlantic region.
Many publicly held development companies consider this form of financing more secure than the institutional financing they were receiving a decade ago, Mr. Sweeney said. At that time, many banks were unable to sustain projects they had financed, undermining development ventures in their early stages, he said. On the other hand, when share prices are weak, REIT's may find the door to capital closed and continued growth difficult.
Toll Brothers is not alone among publicly held development companies that have diversified to find income from new sources. Some have gone overseas seeking new customers or into new businesses at home. Most new ventures support the core home-building operation -- landscaping for new homes, pest control services, home-security installation. Then there are subsidiaries or related companies to provide financial or insurance services, such as mortgage lending, mortgage insurance and home equity loans.
Last fall the Lennar Corporation, of Miami, spun off its real estate-investment business and combined its mortgage-underwriting and building operations with Pacific Greystone, a California builder. That merger catapulted Lennar into the California markets, beyond its traditional bases in Texas and Florida.
Centex Homes, based in Dallas, entered the manufactured-housing industry in 1997 to serve its own projects and supply other builders. It also owns Texas Trust Savings Bank and Centex Mortgage Company, among the country's largest originators of mortgages for new-home buyers.
SOME builders have their own security, landscaping or extermination staffs. Others, such as Pulte Corporation, contract with service providers, preferring to rely on existing companies from which they can gain volume discounts, said James P. Zeumer, vice president for investor and corporate relations at Pulte, the nation's largest home builder with $2.54 billion in overall revenue last year.
"Home builders are looking at how to leverage the relationship with the consumer and to develop other revenue streams that are less cyclical," said Mr. Zeumer. Pulte's income from home loans to buyers represented only 5 percent of its revenue last year, Mr. Zeumer said, although it is growing internationally with loans to buyers in Mexico and Puerto Rico.
The Toll Brothers Realty Trust is currently a nonpublic investment vehicle in which Toll Brothers expects to hold a 40 percent stake, with a pension fund taking the rest. The trust's initial capitalization provided money to pursue construction on existing land, plus acquisition of other sites and buildings. Mr. Toll said he hoped to offer shares to the public within five years, after the portfolio reaches the scale of "a few hundred million dollars."
Directing the trust is Kevin McAndrews, who previously worked for Trammell Crow, the Dallas-based development company, and later formed McAndrews Realty Advisers, a consulting firm for developers in the Washington metropolitan area. Both the Dulles Greene and Belmont Country Club sites were purchased by Toll Brothers Realty Trust from a bank that had foreclosed on a previous developer, he said.
DULLES GREENE is a gated rental community with tennis courts, a business center and pool. It is on Innovation Avenue at Route 28 in Herndon, three minutes from the Washington-Dulles International Airport. The first residents in the 390-unit first phase of the development, which consists of garden apartments or town-house rentals on 22 acres, are scheduled to move in this weekend, , said Webb Koschene, vice president of Toll Brothers.
Belmont Country Club is on Route 7 near Leesburg, Va., on land once owned by the Lee family, which included two signers of the Declaration of Independence. The 1790 manor house is being restored as part of the golf course's clubhouse. The first houses to rise on the site will be built and sold by Toll Brothers, not the trust, Mr. McAndrews said.
In the future, Mr. McAndrews said, the trust may pursue projects independently of Toll Brothers. "The REIT has the flexibility to acquire existing properties or land on which to build," he said. "We're focusing on markets where we already know the area." In the residential business, the two companies may work together or in partnership with other builders, he added.
Real estate investment trusts are just one factor in the re-emergence of large-scale development nationwide. The home construction boom of recent years, the lowest borrowing costs for builders in a decade and the growth of networked nationwide computer systems have all helped large builders grow geographically and economically, said Gopal Aluwalia, director of research at the National Association of Home Builders in Washington.
"The level of cyclicality in the industry has been reduced," he said. "In previous years, if a homebuilder faced a slowdown they would shift to light commercial work or remodeling and renovation. But builders are looking to enter new markets and find different sources of revenue."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dulles Greene, 800-unit rental complex now rising in Washington suburb of Herndon, Va.; Robert I. Toll, head of Toll Brothers. Its REIT builds retail and office projects. (Photographs by Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)
 
Map of mid-atlantic region, highlighting Dulles Greene.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BDN (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: TOLL BROTHERS INC BRANDYWINE REALTY TRUST (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOLL BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: HERNDON (VA); LOUDOUN COUNTY (VA); UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (71%); GOLF (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INSURANCE (62%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (58%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (58%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J ROBERT I TOLL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



22 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Marian Kuhn, Richard Browning

 BODY:
Marian Kuhn and Dr. Richard Emmett Browning were married yesterday in Salisbury, Conn. The Rev. Jesse Y. Bingham Jr. performed the ceremony at St. John's Episcopal Church.
Mrs. Browning, 44, was until September a senior associate at the International Resources Group, an energy and environmental consulting firm in Washington. She graduated from Trinity College in Hartford. She is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Lucien Kuhn of Falls Village, Conn. Her father, who retired as a Foreign Service officer, was the consul general at the United States Embassy in Rome from 1969 to 1973. 
 Dr. Browning, 49, is a senior manager in Houston with the business consulting group of Arthur Andersen. He graduated magna cum laude from Virginia Polytechnic Institute, from which he also received a master's degree, magna cum laude, in education. He holds a Ph.D. in economics from Georgetown University.
He is a son of Mrs. James Pendleton Browning of Warrenton, Va., and the late Mr. Browning, who retired as a General Services Administration supervisor at the Central Intelligence Agency's Warrenton Training Center.
The bridegroom's two previous marriages ended in divorce.

GRAPHIC: Photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (54%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); ROME, ITALY (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES GROUP LTD (58%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (54%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); ROME, ITALY (54%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MARRIAGE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: KUHN, MARIAN (MARIAN BROWNING); BROWNING, RICHARD EMMETT JAMES PENDLETON BROWNING (92%); RICHARD EMMETT BROWNING (55%); MARIAN KUHN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



23 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property / The Market;
As Financing Pool Dries Up, Some See Opportunity

BYLINE: By By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
TRADITIONAL real-estate lenders, largely forced to the sidelines in recent years by Wall Street firms, are moving to take advantage of the virtual shutdown of the public market for commercial mortgage-backed securities. These lenders, which include banks and insurance companies, had been largely displaced by Wall Street concerns such as Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse First Boston and Nomura Securities.
But with the lending squeeze caused by the drying up of the commercial mortgage-backed security pipeline, the real estate industry's traditional lenders sense an opportunity. 
 "Frankly, this is good for my business," said John I. Bralower, the president of Sonnenblick-Goldman Company, a real estate investment bank. "When people could pick up the phone and get 90 percent financing from Lehman, it was hard to compete. Now the market needs us."
"We are seeing deals that were being done by investment bankers coming back to commercial banks," said John Cook, president of the New York division of the Buffalo-based M.& T. Bank. And with billions of dollars of loans sitting unsold on Wall Street's books, he said, there may be an opportunity for commercial banks to buy some of them, presumably at a discount.
Mr. Cook said the bank was looking at 8 to 10 specific pieces of business, including a $55 million mortgage loan from an investment bank, but had not yet concluded the transactions.
"This is a good time to be a commercial banker," he said.
The public credit markets became a huge force in real estate starting in the mid 90's as investment banks lent money for mortgages and pooled the loans into securities that they sold to institutional investors, such as pension funds.
The value of the mortgage-backed securities placed by companies called conduits, which are institutions that make loans they intend to pass on to investment bankers for sale, has grown rapidly, from a total of $700 million in 1993 to $23 billion last year, according to Whitney Wilcox, the New York area president of Holliday, Fenoglio, Fowler, L.P., a real estate investment bank. This has connected real estate to Wall Street as never before. One result is that volatility in financial markets is quickly felt in real estate, which reacted much less directly to market fluctuations in the past.
The conduit part of the overall mortgage-backed securities market, which includes insurance companies and other property owners who sell securities, has grown rapidly, from a $700 million share of an overall market of $17 billion in 1993 to a projected $60 billion share of an anticipated overall $80 billion market this year, Mr. Wilcox said.
In September, economic turmoil in Asia and Russia made bond-market investors less tolerant of risk and so they began demanding higher interest rates on all debt investments. This caught investment bankers holding billions of dollars of loans that, pooled and turned into securities, could only be sold at a loss. As a result they stopped making new loans, causing a tightening of credit in real estate.
The pileup of loans is substantial, according to estimates. "I think the number is close to $50 billion," said John D. Lyons, executive managing director of Granite Partners, a real estate investment firm. "There are $20 billion to $30 billion in loans that have not been sold and another $20 billion in the pipeline that have been already been purchased to be sold."
But many people in the real estate industry say that with the re-entry of traditional lenders, such as commercial banks and insurance companies, the real shortage is limited to overly leveraged projects, those that have a very high proportion of debt to equity, and new development.
"There is still financing available for cash-flow properties," or those with established incomes, said Howard Michaels, chairman of the Carlton Group, a sales brokerage and finance company. But, he added, "the market is very difficult for development properties."
Some real estate executives said the return of established real estate lenders and efforts on Wall Street to restart the market for mortgage-backed securities should largely solve the problem by the beginning of next year.
"The industry will work out of this situation," said Dennis Yeskey, the regional managing partner of Deloitte & Touche Real Estate Services. "The guys who were doing the underwriting will take a beating, but long term it won't rattle the markets."
In addition, institutional investors who may have exhausted their yearly investment allocation in the frenzied market this year, will be back with fresh allocations as of Jan. 1, said Jeffrey Cooper, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, a financial services company.
AND, real estate executives note, the Wall Street companies who are currently holding loans that can only be sold at a loss have years of profits from trading the mortgage-backed securities to absorb the losses.
"People are coming back to the market because they believe the risk has been underwritten," or discounted, said Mr. Lyons of Granite Partners. "Three to four weeks ago, it was a standstill. But now the free fall has ended. The amount of money available for real estate has not changed. The price of it has changed."
Real estate and finance executives said vast amounts of money that was invested in Treasury securities during September and the early part of October for safety are beginning to trickle out as investors are enticed by the higher interest rates available on other forms of debt.
Many real estate executives say the temporary lack of liquidity may actually have a beneficial effect, by preventing overbuilding before it happens and by preventing overeager buyers from doing highly leveraged deals.
Because they do not have the risk of holding loans, since they are usually sold shortly after being assembled, investment banks were much more aggressive in their financing than traditional lenders, supplying up to 95 percent of a property's price.
"A bank or insurance company will not lend more than 75 percent," said Mr. Michaels. "The rest is equity." Pending deals based on obtaining 85 or 90 percent financing have been put on hold, executives say, because would-be buyers are unwilling or unable to come up with more equity.
The match between real estate, which is a longterm business, and the short-term trading culture of Wall Street was always an odd one in many ways, executives say.
"The world is a lot different than it was 10 years ago," said Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate. "In the past, when a bank or insurance company lent money it was for the long term." The lender would stay in contact with the borrower and collect payments. Developers and lenders had relationships that endured from project to project. Investment bankers, on the other hand, wanted to make loans, sell them and collect a fee with little regard to the individuals involved.
"A developer or an owner sees real estate as an asset, and they concentrate on improving the value of that asset," said Martin Kravet, the president of Royal Abstract, a New York title insurance company. "Wall Street guys don't care about asset values, they just want to generate fees."
The problems with the mortgage-backed securities market may also provide some opportunities to buyers with cash in their pockets, as planned highly leveraged transactions fall short on financing.
"Some people who have access to equity are taking advantage of failed transactions," said Mr. Cooper of Cushman & Wakefield, discussing the market for commercial buildings. "A lot of bids were received in late August, just before the credit market problems. The next round of bids was lower."
Mr. Cooper and other real estate executives said that the reductions in the bids ranged from under 5 percent for top-quality properties to as much as 20 percent for lower-grade buildings.
Among the buildings reported by real estate executives to have been taken off the market since the mortgage-backed securities market tightened are the Revlon Building at 625 Madison Avenue and buildings at 717 Fifth Avenue and 450 Lexington Avenue.
The liquidity shortage is affecting more than building sales, brokers report. In addition to hesitation on the part of tenants to move or take added space because of economic uncertainty, landlords are hampered in their ability to close transactions because of their own need to access capital.
"Building owners need money to pay commissions and for tenant installations," which include interior renovations, said Peter G. Riguardi, an executive vice president of Collins ABR, a real estate services company. "That kind of money has dried up and the velocity of deals has slowed. The market is going to be quieter for the rest of the year."
Real estate executives continue to point out that, despite gyrations in financial markets, the fundamentals of New York real estate remain solid. Employment is high, office space vacancy rates are low and rental rates are holding. "The good news is there is no space," said Mr. Gosin, the Newmark chief.
Unlike the 80's when a building boom left vast amounts of space vacant, almost nothing has been built in the 90's, so supply is in line with demand.
"There is nothing wrong with real estate," said Kevin Haggarty, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG's capital market group. "We did not cause the problem by overbuilding."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Now the market needs us," says John I. Bralower, head of Sonnenblick-Goldman Company, a real estate investment bank. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); SONNENBLICK-GOLDMAN CO (70%); HOLLIDAY FENOGLIO FOWLER LP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; MORTGAGES; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (93%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INSURANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



24 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: SENIORITY;
Save Social Security? From What?

BYLINE: By FRED BROCK; Fred Brock is an editor at The Times. His column on the approach to and arrival at retirement will appear the first Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to fbrock@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHEN the new Congress convenes early next year, one of the major issues it will tackle -- after it tears itself away from Bill and Monica -- will be Social Security.
We may end up wishing that it had stuck with Bill and Monica. So-called reform of the Social Security system is looking more and more like a solution in search of a problem. 
 Politicians talk crisis and issue dire warnings about the graying of America and the threat of generational warfare. Journalists toss off phrases like "looming insolvency." There is little wonder that a survey this year showed that 68 percent of Americans think that "fixing" Social Security is very important.
But even under the most gloomy economic growth forecast, the system is rock-solid for the next 30 years or so -- and, with some minimal changes, for 40 years after that.
Even if economic growth over the next 75 years slows to half the annual average of 3.5 percent over the past 75 years, the Social Security system will do just fine, in the view of Mark Weisbrot, research director of the Preamble Center, a nonpartisan Washington policy institute.
"The most important thing we could do to protect Social Security right now is to leave it alone," said Mr. Weisbrot, co-author of "Social Security: The Phony Crisis," scheduled to be published next year by the University of Chicago Press.
So why all the fuss? Think hidden agendas. On all sides.
Wall Street would love to get its hands on at least some of the billions of dollars in the Social Security trust fund. And many ultra-conservative Republicans want to privatize the system fully. But knowing that the idea won't fly politically, they are pushing for partial privatization, in which individuals would invest a portion of their contributions in the stock market, all in the name of rescuing the system.
The concept has picked up support across the political spectrum. Several variations are under consideration, including one modeled after individual retirement accounts; it would give Americans broad discretion over how they invested their money.
The stock market, however, has been reminding people lately that it can go down as well as up. And Mr. Weisbrot pointed out that the declines can be long-term: between 1968 and 1978, for example, the market lost 45 percent of its value.
In any case, the next Congress is almost certain to consider partial privatization. But when it does, it should also consider safeguards to protect novice investors from dangers like account churning by commission-driven brokers.
President Clinton has been exhorting Congress to use the budget surplus to "save" Social Security. He has thus scored political points for the Democrats as the great protectors of Social Security. But Republicans aren't about to cry foul and say the system doesn't need saving. If they do, there goes their argument for privatization.
"There's a kind of gentlemen's agreement here in Washington, I'm afraid, not to point out the basic fact that we don't really need to be talking about Social Security," Mr. Weisbrot said.
One of the biggest smoke screens in the debate is the idea that the Social Security "crisis" will cause generational conflicts. The argument conjures up images of old people with canes and walkers, barricaded in retirement villages, fighting off hordes of Generation-X'ers.
But as Knight A. Kiplinger writes in "World Boom Ahead" (Kiplinger Books), the graying of America will be very gradual. It may be true that by 2020, about 53 million people, or 16 percent of the population, will be over 65, compared with the current 35 million, or 13 percent. But Mr. Kiplinger says that isn't the whole picture. Because of general population growth, the number of young people will be growing, too, and the the nation's median age in 2020 will be equal to the median age of Florida's population today: 38. The current national median is 35.
 MOREOVER, Generation-X'ers didn't spring full-grown from the mind of Tommy Hilfiger. They have parents and grandparents, too, and they want them to have a secure retirement. And Generation X will eventually retire. A poll of 18- to 34-year-olds last summer by the 2030 Center, which studies economic issues affecting young people, showed broad support for the future of Social Security.
So here's a modest proposal. Since whatever problems Social Security may have are a very long way off, let's have a 10-year test of privatization -- with Congressional pensions. Let Congress pass a law linking representatives' and senators' pensions to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. And maybe when Congress debates health care, it should force its members into H.M.O.'s.
Both moves would, to borrow from Dr. Johnson, focus their minds wonderfully.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Eric Fowler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); WRITERS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (63%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (62%); 

PERSON: BROCK, FRED BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



25 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GREENWICH VILLAGE -- BUZZ;
The 80's? That Was High School

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY 

 BODY:
THE SETTING -- A flock of young professionals enjoying cocktails, flirting and business chitchat Tuesday night at Life, a nightclub on Bleecker Street. The event was organized by Peter Conti, a former nightlife dean turned college professor who decided it was time to revive the "networking parties" of the 80's.
Those social bees of that era didn't live much past Black Tuesday in October 1987, when the Dow plummeted and many of the business cards people pressed on one another weren't worth the paper stock they were printed on. Now Mr. Conti, who once worked for Jerry Rubin, the yippie turned yuppie, has concocted his Life After Work networking parties, which he plans to hold weekly. The first one, on Tuesday, drew about 120 young people, many in suits. 
 THE BUZZ -- "The 80's were definitely more decadent, with all that sex and drugs," said Andrea Knoll, 23, an art director. "At least, that's what I've heard. Ten years ago I was in boarding school. I grew up with the kids of New York yuppies, so I learned a lot."
Others agreed. The 80's, many said, were a time of big shoulders, big greed, big egos and very, very big drug habits. Today, they said, things have changed, at least publicly. Excess exists, but it's more private now.
Brenda Gunther, 37, an account director for an interior design firm, said she remembered actually going to networking parties a decade ago. The younger people gazed at her as if she were some tribal elder about to impart the lost secrets of a mythical age.
"I see no difference," she said.
"But weren't there more drugs and stuff in the 80's?" asked Barbara Gantner, 31, a banker. "Now it seems like people are just drinking and smoking. A lot."
Mark Hayes, 23, a stock exchange specialist, said, "Weren't people just laying drugs out on the tables?"
"I don't remember that," Ms. Gunther said.
At this networking party, the business cards for the most part seemed safely tucked away in wallets and breast pockets. "We're not really pressing them on people," Ms. Gantner said. "We're not so aggressive. Maybe things are more low key, maybe a bit more hip now when doing business.
Michael McNamara, 28, a market maker at the American Stock Exchange, was philosophical. "The 80's were about wanting more and getting more," he said. "And lots of outright aggressive networking. Now, we've passed through a recession, through grunge, and it's a time when maybe excess isn't O.K." DAVID KIRBY

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suits were the thing to wear to Tuesday's "networking" party at the nightclub Life. (Miles Landin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LIFE (NYC NIGHTCLUB) NYSE MKT LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIFE (NYC NIGHTCLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTIES; PARTIES (SOCIAL) INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); SMOKING (65%); INTERIOR DECORATING (50%); 

PERSON: CONTI, PETER (PROF); KIRBY, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



26 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3173 words

HEADLINE: For Sales of Second Homes, No Vacation

BYLINE: By By TRISH HALL 

 BODY:
THIS is a busy time for real estate brokers in the picture-perfect small towns of the Northeast as they race from closing to closing, getting customers into weekend houses in time to inaugurate the new lodgings with a Thanksgiving turkey. It is also, by and large, a rich time. Some brokers have had their best year ever as affluent buyers have increasingly come to view the second home as an integral part of life, an accessory as necessary as a sports utility vehicle.
Surprisingly, many brokers say, the volatile stock market has so far had a minimal effect on sales. Although in some areas there has been a lessening of interest in properties costing more than $1 million, there is no widespread indication that the market for second homes is being affected. With interest rates at some of their lowest levels in 30 years, even buyers who are nervous about the direction of the economy are seduced by the financing opportunities. 
 While prices in many areas rose significantly from last fall through the spring, they have leveled off, many brokers say, making this seem an opportune time to buy. Asking prices are not, however, generally being cut. The sale of a second home is often discretionary, and if there are no takers, the owner can just hold on to it or rent until the market seems more favorable.
While buyers can still find houses within three hours of New York that offer a few acres, and maybe even access to a stream or lake, for less than $120,000, prices of substantial houses in the sought-after communities are well over $250,000, and sales have been brisk, with some brokers saying that their sales for the year are up 40 to 50 percent. As a result, inventory is depleted, and there is much less for sale than there was a few years ago. Some brokers now say their biggest problem is finding homes to show.
Sales of second homes take place most often in the spring and fall, but they are increasingly occurring throughout the year because the homes are no longer merely seasonal retreats. Houses in ski country are used in the summer because there are usually nearby lakes and golf courses. Beach houses in towns with the bookstores, restaurants and other services that city people want are increasingly drawing year-round visitors who are also pleased by the peacefulness of a fall day at the beach.
Weekend houses, too, are no longer strictly weekend houses, now that time away from the office can, for increasing numbers of the fortunate, be stretched to three or four days as E-mail, faxes and voice mail make it possible to work from any location.
Take, for instance, Madison, Conn., a lovely town of about 15,000 on the water about 20 minutes east of New Haven. Twenty years ago, summer visitors tended to come from Connecticut, from landlocked cities like Hartford, an hour to the northwest. But increasingly, New Yorkers have discovered Madison, which is a two-hour drive from New York City. They are drawn by the pretty main street and its mix of stores, by the great homemade meat loaf at Sweet and Savory, and readings by well-known authors -- among them Judy Collins, Joan Lunden and Anne Rice -- at the bookstore R. J. Julia.
And they are drawn by a peaceful waterfront on Long Island Sound that seems to offer blue vistas at every turn, as well as down the town's many small streets that end at the water's edge.
There are few garish houses here. Many are from the end of the last century and the beginning of this one, cottages that sit cheek by jowl on small lots. They have been winterized and now sell for $250,000 for small houses and up to $800,000 or more for waterfront homes.
Margaret Muir, who began visiting Madison as a child, has been selling real estate in the town for nine years. Prices have risen substantially in the last year, she said, as "people discover that, as nice as it is to be here in the summer, this is New England."
"In the fall there is cider making, and sitting in front of a fire," she said.
The popularity of Madison seems to be growing, too, in anticipation of a new high-speed rail line, due in 2000 or so, that will cut the travel time to 80 minutes -- 60 minutes to New Haven, and a 20-minute drive. Large sums of money are being invested, primarily by families from New York, to renovate and winterize the old cottages.
Still, as in other communities where some houses sell for more than $1 million, Ms. Muir, a broker at Page Taft on Wall Street in Madison, has noticed less interest in the very expensive properties since the stock market's volatility began. "I think there's a response to the stock market," she said. "I think there's a hesitation and an overall anxiety." On the other hand, she said, "I don't think we've fallen apart here."
THE strong market for second homes in the New York region has sent many people to mortgage brokers for financing. "The last 12 months have been one of the busiest times we've seen in the vacation home market," said Steven Schnall, the president of New York Mortgage Corporation. a mortgage broker that handles loans in Connecticut, New York and New Jersey.
The strong economy and the rising stock market contributed, he said, but so did greater flexibility by lenders, who now allow buyers to put down just 10 percent, compared to 20 percent or 30 percent in the past. After the stock market drop in the summer, he said, action in general in the city and in the second home market slowed down a bit, but the volume of sales did not significantly change. "They just weren't jumping as quickly," he said. Now, with the market seeming more stable, he said, people are buying, but in a more measured, less frantic way than they were earlier in the year.
While sales of second homes vary from market to market, and while they are naturally affected by the economy, the country in general is likely to have more people with second homes because the number of people in the age categories most likely to buy vacation homes is growing. Patrick Phillips, a senior vice president at Economics Research Associates, a consulting firm in Washington that focuses on recreational real estate, said that people in their early 50's were most likely to buy second homes, in part because they are in their peak earning years, and in part because their children are likely to be older and they have more free time.
As the baby boom generation moves into its 50's, ownership of second homes is likely to increase, he said. And in fact, it is already happening. While there was no growth through the first half of this decade in the purchase of second homes, the number of second homes nationwide increased by more than 200,000 in 1996, and again by the same number in 1997, according to the Census Bureau.
People looking for a second home often start by thinking about whether they want the mountains, farmland or the beach, regardless of whether they plan to use their house primarily in summer or winter. And if they are attracted to mountains, an obvious first place to look is Vermont.
Some devotees of northern Vermont, which attracts people from all over the world, will sneer that the southern part of the state is just a suburb of New York City. There's a reason for that. While northern Vermont is a six-hour drive, southern Vermont is just three-and-a-half to four-and-a-half hours away. For much of the last decade, properties in many parts of Vermont were relative bargains, and many towns have still not recaptured the house prices they saw during the boom days of the mid-1980's. Condos meant for skiers were particularly slow to recover.
But even the condo market has strengthened significantly. Although prices are not as high as they were just before the stock market collapse of 1987, sales have been booming. As an example of how well things are selling, Paul Sherwood of Century 21 Carriage Realty in West Dover, Vt., in the southern part of the state, singled out one of his favorite condo complexes, Timber Creek, in West Dover directly across from Mount Snow.
With 212 units, it has swimming pools, saunas, cross-country trails, a clubhouse, weight rooms, racquetball courts, firewood delivered to the door, and shuttle bus service to the ski lift. The condos, between 2,000 and 2,900 square feet, are priced from $139,000 to $189,000 and are selling extremely well, he said.
But Mr. Sherwood remembers 1990 and 1991, when 52 units were for sale, about a quarter of the complex. Now, only seven are for sale. "I'm begging owners to list with me," he said.
The last month, Mr. Sherwood said, has been his busiest time. "October is when we have our World Series," he said. Buyers start "kicking the tires" in June, then start getting serious after Labor Day, so they can be in their new homes by Thanksgiving, he said. Usually, he said, "when the last leaf hits the ground, the last buyer disappears." But that has not been the case this year. "It's remarkably busy," he said. "The people are still coming. This past weekend, I didn't have enough time to see all the people."
A typical buyer, he said, is a single man in his late 20's who works on Wall Street. Places are selling twice as quickly as they did last year, in an average of 60 days, he said.
As of mid-October, Mr. Sherwood said, he had closed more than $8 million in sales this year, up from $7 million for all of 1997, and his best quarter is typically the fourth, which is still to come. Sales have not been hurt by the stock market or by by a new statewide property tax system, meant to equalize education spending, that has raised many assessments, some by as much as 30 percent.
Still, he said, prices are far below what they were at their height in the 80's. for condos, and houses are 30 to 35 percent less. In those wild days, he said, people were buying investment property; now they are picking out houses they plan to use, although they will sometimes rent them out in summer to defray costs.
"We have been in a buyers' market for 10 years," said Mr. Sherwood, a retired New York dentist who has been selling real estate in Vermont for 11 years. "We're not yet in a sellers' market, but inventory is depleted, and prices are tending to go up."
Business is also booming in other parts of Vermont that attract many New Yorkers. Terry Hill, president of the South Central Vermont Board of Realtors, which represents brokers in Stratton, Weston, Dorset and Manchester, said that "business has been very good for the last year, and especially for the last six or seven months."
Ms. Hill said she expected that sales volume for the year would be 40 percent higher than last year. Buyers tend to be families in their mid-30's who see their homes as year-round retreats. "In past years, you might only see the owner from Christmas to March," she said. "Now, you're seeing them year-round, because there are so many things to do in southern Vermont. We have fly fishing, and beautiful golf courses."
WHILE Dorset may be a four-hour drive from New York City, Stowe is much farther north, a six-hour drive or a one-hour flight to Burlington, 35 minutes away. Pall Spera, who has been selling real estate in the area for 30 years, said that there are more conversations now about the stock market, but it doesn't seem to be a factor in the sale of homes in the $300,000 to $400,000 range.
"We have such absolutely provocative rates," he said, "and we are still very cheap as resort real estate goes." His company's sales were 50 percent higher this year, he said, in part because Vermont's isolation is countered by technology. "They can be there and not feel disconnected," he said, because of E-mail and the like. "People are coming Thursday night and leaving Monday. The weekend is three to four days."
The biggest problem now, he said, is a lack of houses for sale. "We've cleaned out the pantry," he said. The most sought-after type of property in Stowe these days, he said, is a contemporary Vermont farmhouse, which has clapboards and an angled roof. "It's like Norman Rockwell, but the windows are larger, and it is cathedralized inside, with an open conversation area from the living room to the kitchen," he said.
The old houses in the village are less popular, he said, because although they are quaint, they are "rabbits' warrens of small rooms."
While people may initially be drawn to Stowe by the skiing, he said, it is a year-round resort where the local shops are busier in spring, summer and fall than they are in the winter.
A similar evolution has occurred in the Hamptons, where restaurants no longer shut down in the winter and social life no longer stops after Labor Day. "It's not a seasonal resort anymore," said Frank Newbold, a vice president of Sotheby's International Realty and manager of the East Hampton office. For the last few years, Mr. Newbold has been renting houses in the fall, from September through December, "when you don't have to wait in line to buy a tomato," and when a house within walking distance of the beach that would be $25,000 for August is only $2,000 a month, he said.
Although Mr. Newbold used to find that his busiest times were in the spring and September, spring is now far more important, he said. Wall Street people in New York receive their bonuses in January and February, so they are ready to shop seriously in the spring. By September, and especially this fall, they may not be so certain of their future economic status, and they wait for the next bonus.
So people who shop for houses in the fall may have a better chance of getting a good deal, he said, because there are fewer buyers to compete with and some sellers want to unload their properties before winter begins.
The recent volatility of the stock market, he said, has not affected prices of the better properties, but it has brought out people who are apparently hoping that this is the time to find a deal.
"The prices are absolutely the same" in the prime areas, he said, although in less prestigious sections, prices have fallen by about 5 percent, in a "little bit of a wave of reality."
 In the first part of the summer, with the stock market booming, brokers were willing to put on high prices, thinking they might get them. But how, he said, "we are encouraging people to be more realistic."
Litchfield County, the wealthy northwest corner of Connecticut, is also finding relatively little impact from the stock market, brokers said. It's a place that likes to think of itself as the un-Hamptons, as restrained and refined as the Hamptons are showy. Prices in Litchfield County have gone up about 10 percent in the last year, and sales have been brisk, said Carolyn Klemm, whose company, Klemm Realty in Washington, Conn., recently sold the Warren home of the best-selling romance novelist Barbara Taylor Bradford for $2.5 million. Even after the stock market collapse in 1987, she said, "we only had a few deals that went south."
This year, she said, "We've had our best year ever."
Similarly pretty country views, with lower prices, are found in Dutchess and Columbia Counties in New York, on the east side of the Hudson River. Sales have also been booming, but prices are not as high as they were before the stock market collapse of 1987, brokers said. Susan Lott, a broker in Chatham who covers most of Columbia County, said that houses for sale include $123,000 for a "dollhouse" on a pretty half acre in North Chatham and $345,000 for a center-hall Colonial with four bedrooms and an artist's studio on seven acres in Spencertown.
Sometimes, she said, she will try to tempt New Yorkers to go farther out, into Rensselaer County, for instance, where prices are lower, but most people do not want to drive more than two hours. The Taconic Parkway ends in Columbia County, in Chatham, she said, and "people don't want to go that extra distance."
Andrea Gabel said that most of the houses she sells in Columbia County go for between $250,000 and $600,000 and that some customers are becoming frustrated by the lack of properties available.
"We have so many buyers we're selling out of everything," she said. Not much is being built, either, in part, she said, because many New Yorkers, when they have a chance to buy land contiguous to their properties, snap it up so they can be sure it doesn't end up being developed.
LESS expensive country retreats have always been found on the west side of the Hudson River, around Woodstock and New Paltz, and west, in the Catskill Mountains.
While there are certainly pockets of wealth in those areas, there are generally many lovely houses to be found for less. But in those areas, inventory is low because sales have been strong, brokers said.
Gale Brownlee, a broker at Century 21 Eichhorn Realty in the center of Woodstock, said that many self-employed people are buying houses in the area because it is two hours from New York and they can easily go into the city when they need to for business.
They are attracted by the town's history as an artists colony, Ms. Brownlee said. Usually, she said, they start out by saying they want seclusion -- but what they really want is reasonable privacy and quiet.
George Danskin, a broker at Julien J. Studley Inc. in nearby New Paltz, said it was still possible to buy a cottage near the Mohonk Preserve for $125,000. Mr. Danskin said he recently sold an 18th-century stone house with great valley views, on two and a half acres, for $185,000. "People can establish a foothold here and have a weekend retreat and not have a king's ransom to pay" and still be just 90 miles from the city, he said.
Recreation, not chic stores, draws people to Ulster County, he said. In fact, Mr. Danskin said, "I don't think you can get off the Thruway without a bicycle rack on your car."
Farther west, in Delaware County, about three hours from New York City, there is fishing in the summer, and skiing in the winter at Belleayre. Prices have gone up, but they are still relatively low, brokers said.
A ski house with three bedrooms and two baths, on five acres, is for sale at $125,000. A three-bedroom log house on 10 acres just sold for $154,000, while a farmhouse with a barn and a pond on 46 acres went for $240,000, according to Ed Ludde, a salesperson at Terra Real Estate in Margaretville.
Thomas B. Anderson, a senior vice president at Sotheby's International Realty, is one of the few real-estate specialists who have a perspective on a large geographic area. He supervises an 11-state region, from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut down through Kentucky and Tennessee. He has been struck in recent years by the number of sales he sees at the higher end of the price range for vacation homes. "I have been surprised at how many of these more-expensive homes are secondary homes," he said. The buyers are younger than in the past, as young as 28, he said.
He is just as struck, he said, by the lack of impact, so far, of the volatility in the financial world. "The stock market is bouncy," he said. "The real estate market is not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Market: Madison, Conn.: Waterfront 3-bedroom, 1 bath on Beach Avenue in Neck Road area, $529,000; 6-bedroom, 6 1/2-bath house on 6 acres, including tennis court and stable, $4 million; 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath house at 15 Tunxis Road (under contract), $379,000. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times); Woodstock, N.Y.: 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath house on Broadview Road, $129,000; 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath contemporary on Camelot Road in Byrdcliffe sec-tion, $318,500; 2-bedroom, 2-bath glass-walled house on Meads Mountain Road, $595,000. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Mount Snow area, Vt.: 4-bedroom, 2-bath contemporary at 241 Lake Raponda Road, $209,900; 3-bedroom, 2-bath log home on one acre in Snow Mountain Farms West, $139,900; 2-bedroom, 2-level corner condo in Seasons on Mount Snow development, $129,900. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 1); 4-bedroom, 2-story home with indoor pool on Upper Byrd-cliffe Road in Woodstock, N.Y., $389,000. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); 5-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath house at 15 Village at Sawmill Farm, 1 1/2 miles from Mount Snow, Vt., $339,900. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (84%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); SKIING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAKES (69%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: HALL, TRISH

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



27 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB;
Getting Time Off For Good Excuses

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Almost everyone appreciates a little time away from the job, but some people take more than their fair share. In some cases, fate takes a hand and extends a vacation or otherwise accounts for an absence. But sometimes an employee's sheer creativity carves a few extra days from the work calendar.
Did you ever run across one of those people who never really takes a conventional vacation -- you know, the kind who says, "I'll just take Mondays and Fridays off instead"?
R. James Aber of Glen Rock, N.J., tells of a colleague who once received permission to take Mondays and Fridays off in lieu of a week or two at a stretch. Mr. Aber says months went by before anyone realized that his colleague's Mondays and Fridays had long since exceeded his allotted vacation days. 
 A few years later, according to Mr. Aber's postscript, the company went bankrupt.
"Many years ago, as a young and slightly irresponsible employee, I took a four-day ski trip to Aspen, Colo., with a roommate," writes Leila Meresman of Manhattan. On the third day, they met some young men.
On the fourth day, when Miss Meresman and her roommate were supposed to catch a midday flight back to New York, the men talked them into "missing" it and staying in Colorado for another day. Miss Meresman called her office and said she was snowed in but would be certain to catch the first flight in the morning. In fact, snow hadn't fallen for more than a week.
Lo and behold, the next morning, a major blizzard swept in, closing the airport for four days. Miss Meresman says she was lucky to have a job when she got home and has never again messed with Mother Nature.
There's a P.S.: "Still know the guys. Have a new job."
Beth Searing, who lives in Basking Ridge, N.J., and works as secretary, went to Florida for a few days with a friend. Upon their arrival, they smashed up their rental car and had to be taken to their hotel by the police. At midnight, fire broke out in the hotel, and Ms. Searing and her friend ended up on the street in their pajamas. Then, she said, her return home was delayed by court appearances related to the car accident, and she missed two days of work.
Ms. Searing didn't rid herself of the stress that had driven her to Florida in the first place, but she did lose something besides those two workdays: 10 pounds.
John McInerney, a real-estate executive on Long Island, can still quote the best excuse he has ever heard from an employee: "Look, I'm having the best time of my life at this place, and your choice is to let me have another day here, or I swear I will make your life a living hell."
Mr. McInerney writes, "I let her have the day."
She had her doubts about hiring the overqualified young man from Peru but was desperate to fill an entry-level position in the area she supervised, writes Florence McDermott of Manhattan.
After a few weeks on the job, the newly minted employee "called to tell me he received a draft notice from the Peruvian Army and needed a day off to consult an uncle in Queens about his options."
"Bad news the next day," she writes. "The Fujimori Government meant business, according to Uncle, who suggested pleading with the Peruvian Ambassador."
Another day off was granted.
"Even worse news the next day. The Ambassador hinted that family property in Peru would be confiscated" if the young man didn't show up for induction. The employee begged for a few more days' leave so he could plead his case in Lima. Again, the request was granted. A few days later, his mother called to say that he was still in Lima, negotiating with the Army, and that she was praying for him.
That night, Ms. McDermott writes, a co-worker "spies him leaving an office building in Manhattan and then runs smack into him on Metro North."
"He admits that he's working as a financial analyst at another company.
"My co-workers and I now refer to absent job-hunting colleagues as 'joining the Peruvian Army.' "

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PERUVIAN ARMY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PERUVIAN ARMY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); COLORADO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SKIING (76%); REAL ESTATE (70%); CLOSINGS (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%); FIRES (50%); 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE LEILA MERESMAN (75%); R JAMES ABER (67%); BETH SEARING (64%); FLORENCE MCDERMOTT (55%); JOHN MCINERNEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



28 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Bringing Downtown to the Waterfront

BYLINE: By VIVIAN TOY 

 BODY:
TIMOTHY CHUANG shakes his head as he considers how different life might have been had he bought one of the rundown buildings on Main Street in Flushing, Queens, 20 years ago, when he first arrived in this country.
"I wish I knew at that time to buy property because I'd be a rich guy now," he said. Instead, he works behind the counter at his Chinese herb shop, New York Tong Ren Tang, in a rented Main Street storefront. In the early 80's, Mr. Chuang said, the building would have gone for around $100,000. Now, he said, it might sell for more than $2 million. Local realtors say property values in the area have soared since the late 70's, with many Main Street buildings carrying price tags of $1 million or more. 
 Once bedraggled and full of vacant storefronts, downtown Flushing has been gradually transformed over the last 20 years into a bustling retail mecca catering to the neighborhood's growing Chinese and Korean immigrant communities. "Flushing is one of the most vital new commercial locations in the city," said Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission. "But from population and economic perspectives, it's bursting at the seams." Planners and local officials say development has also sometimes mixed new with old in a disjointed way.
In September, after a process that took nearly a decade, the City Council approved a new master plan for Flushing that aims to channel development into former manufacturing zones and prevent more jumbling.
City planners say they eventually expect more than 1 million square feet of new commercial and residential development, including more than 1,000 housing units, in an expanded downtown, with businesses near the waterfront and public walkways leading right to the water's edge.
While the former manufacturing zone along College Point Boulevard and to its west is dominated by auto repair shops and warehouse space, the opening of Home Depot three years ago, on Avery Street, spawned other home improvement retail businesses nearby. Korea Town Plaza, a 100,000-square-foot food market at 39th Avenue and College Point Boulevard, opened in 1994 amid concerns from some Korean store owners that its size and discount prices would hurt their businesses.
Now some downtown business owners in Flushing say they have mixed feelings about the newly zoned area because they are worried about competition from businesses that are expected to open there.
"Of course it's good if you can develop more of Flushing," Mr. Chuang said. "But for our business, we don't really like the changes because we want more people to stay around here and shop."
Sam Oubaita, the manager at Gold Expo, a jewelry store on Main Street, said he also feared new development might hurt business. But then he considered the state of College Point Boulevard. "That area is dead, even scary," he said. "I guess I hope it will help things over there."
With more than 20 bus lines converging at the intersection of Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue, as well as the Long Island Rail Road and the No. 7 subway line from Manhattan, Flushing has long been a transportation hub. But its downtown went into decline in the 1970's as the community's population aged and the city's economy weakened.
In the late 70's, though, Chinese and Korean immigrants started buying property. "The vacancy rate was tremendous until Asian money started coming in, and it's been wonderful for our downtown," said Marilyn Bitterman, the district manager of Community Board 7.
But development became increasingly haphazard as more and more exceptions to zoning laws were granted. Office towers went up above traditional two-story business strips, and single-family homes were razed for condominium towers. Officials worried that the development, which was all taking place east of College Point Boulevard, would destroy the character of Flushing.
"Handsome houses were being destroyed so they could put up cracker boxes," said City Councilwoman Julia Harrison. "And there was no concern at all about the quality of life in the community. It was just build, build, build."
In 1991 Mrs. Harrison commissioned a study of development in Flushing, the first step toward the master plan. Over the years, the proposed plan underwent extensive community review. Though it met little opposition, it did stir up some simmering tensions between the Chinese and Korean communities.
While Chinese and Korean businesses can be found alongside one another throughout Flushing, Korean businesses tend to be concentrated east of Main Street and Chinese businesses to the west. Some Korean business owners feared that the new commercial area would benefit the Chinese community while doing nothing for them.
Sung Soo Kim, president of the Small Business Congress of New York City, which includes hundreds of Korean businesses in Flushing, expressed concern that new development would merely spread downtown traffic congestion to a different part of town.
Mr. Rose, however, said that by channeling growth into a larger area, the zoning changes should eventually help ease some traffic problems that plague downtown streets.
Mr. Kim also warned that some of the former industrial land could be contaminated, but city officials said that tests have shown no serious environmental concerns and that developers would be responsible if any cleanup was necessary.
And he and Sang K. Kim, a spokesman for the Korean American Association of Flushing, said they were concerned that development by the river would bring in more discount superstores. "Our main concern is what type of businesses will be set up there," said Sang K. Kim. "Big discount businesses might hurt a lot of the Korean businesses."
But Jimmy Meng, president of the Flushing Chinese Business Association, said that Chinese business owners see the new master plan as a boon to the area. "There's no place else to expand to," he said. "So now this is the only chance for opportunity. We think it's good news to this community."
Stanley J. Markowitz, vice president for leasing for the Muss Development Company, one of the biggest developers in Queens, said there is "huge demand" for retail space in Flushing.
Muss, which owns a 14-acre tract on the river including a former Consolidated Edison headquarters that now houses some light industry, is planning to convert the space into large retail stores and may build apartment towers.
"We certainly have already received a lot of inquiries on our site," Mr. Markowitz said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some shop owners along busy Main Street in Flushing say they fear new zoning changes may bring too much competition to College Point Boulevard, which is not far away. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Map: "ZONES: Guiding Growth in Queens"
The City Council recently approved these zoning changes for downtown Flushing:
 
A -- This 14-acre area has been changed from an industrial manufacturing zone to one that permits commercial development and apartment buildings.
 
B -- Formerly part of a manufacturing zone, this one-and-a-half block area was changed to residential and commercial zoning to reflect the existing mix of stores and homes.
 
C -- In this former industrial area of 40 acres, commercial and residential development will now be allowed. Public access to the waterfront is a requirement for development.
 
D -- This three-and-a-half block area, previously zoned for heavy industry, was changed to a lighter-industry zone to reflect what exists there now, mainly automotive businesses.
 
E -- The central downtown retail area, comprising 38 acres, has been changed to a higher density commercial zone. Parking requirements for businesses have been lowered to a level deemed appropriate for a major business district and mass transit hub.
 
(Source: Department of City Planning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TONG REN TANG TECHNOLOGIES CO LTD (57%); COLLEGE POINT BOULEVARD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE POINT BOULEVARD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ZONING CITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); ZONING (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOME PRICES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); HOME CENTERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (71%); APPROVALS (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S TIMOTHY CHUANG (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



29 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Paris Transit Plans Halts In Response To Violence

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Yves Sauz, a motorman on the Paris rapid transit system, says he likes everything about the job except the increasingly tough customers.
"You aren't even safe here in the cab," he said on a fast underground train headed to St.-Germain-en-Laye. "A little while ago, on a day when there was a tie-up for some reason, a guy tapped for me to open the side window. 'I hope you're happy you've made me 15 minutes late,' he told me, and started punching me in the chest." Mr. Sauz shook his head. 
 On Monday, thousands of the 40,000 bus and train drivers, ticket agents and other employees of the French capital's municipal transit system plan to strike back, with a work stoppage from 10 A.M. to 2 P.M. to press demands for better security in the face of rising violence.
Crime on public transport has generated scores of smaller transit strikes all over the country this month, with employees refusing to work unless transit authorities hire more personnel to deal with troublesome passengers, particularly youths, who are implicated in about a quarter of all such incidents.
"There once was a time when young people behaved themselves, but society's changed," said Pierre Sauvanet, a representative of Force Ouvriere, or Workers' Force, Mr. Sauz's union. "That's no reason to expect us to bear the entire burden of dealing with violence," he said.
Americans may not consider France a country much plagued by urban crime. By the standards of New York City, where the crime rate has fallen dramatically in recent years, Paris still seems pretty safe. Jean-Pierre Vigouroux, a colleague of Mr. Sauvanet, says there is an average of one attack a day against employees of the Paris transit system, which unlike New York's shuts down from about 1:30 A.M. to 5 A.M.
But there remains a perception of social breakdown, especially in a country with chronic unemployment. The rate is stuck at 11.7 percent nationwide, but it is much higher in outlying sections of French cities with large concentrations of alienated youths, particularly from North African immigrant families.
A poll of a thousand Parisians by the Ifop organization last spring found that only 47 percent felt safe on the R.E.R., Paris's suburban commuter network, compared with 62 percent who felt secure in the Paris subway system. Crime was rated the city's third-most-urgent problem, behind homelessness but ahead of drug dealing and illegal immigration.
And vandalism, graffiti and violence are not limited to Paris. Bus drivers in the southern part of the Mediterranean port city of Marseilles struck briefly Friday after a passenger attacked one of them for refusing to make an unscheduled stop. Even in Chambery, a placid place in the foothills of the Alps, bus service was interrupted in mid-October after an attack on a driver.
So Monday's Paris protest will have national overtones. What sparked it was an incident a week ago in a commuter tunnel near the western Defense station, when a passenger became enraged to learn that his train was reversing direction.
The motorman walked through the car on his way to the cab at the other end of the train, officials said later, and the passenger smashed a fire extinguisher into the door window as the driver passed through it.
The motorman suffered superficial cuts and was excused from work for a few days. But fellow drivers refused to work the next day, crippling service on the train's A line.
"Once you leave the cab at one end," Mr. Sauz said, "there's no way to call for help or sound a safety alarm until you get to the other end of the train. There ought to be that much protection, at least."
Police patrols in the Paris rapid transit tunnels were stepped up in 1995 after a series of terrorist bombings, and for a while juvenile delinquency decreased as antiriot specialists and Foreign Legionnaires prowled the platforms.
But in the past year, petty crime in the capital rose by nearly 4.5 percent, and police union officials attributed the increase to the budget, which cut the size of the force by about 1,000 officers.
So, too, with the transit workers, some of whom plan to march on the Finance Ministry on Monday to demand more protection and money. Understaffing and lack of security are two sides of the same coin, union officials say.
"We shouldn't have to be our own police force, but we often are," said Jean-Noel Jacquet, another motorman, who has found that good psychology sometimes works best.
"I told a guy in the car behind me to stop smoking," Mr. Jacquet said, "and he waited until we came to the last stop and then came up and threatened me. I told him that if hadn't said anything to him, other passengers would have complained to my bosses and I would have been in trouble. 'Really? Those no-good sons of guns!' the guy said, and left me alone."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (56%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ASSAULTS; STRIKES; LABOR; SUBWAYS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); STRIKES (78%); TRAINS (78%); VANDALISM (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); SUBURBS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); GRAFFITI (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



30 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: AT THE GATE: Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York;
An Insurer's Transformation Is a Modest Bet

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
AFTER 155 years as a life insurance company that concentrated on providing policies at low cost rather than on turning a profit, the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York is preparing to enter the turbulent world of publicly traded companies.
The big question for investors is whether management can turn a tortoise into something more closely resembling a hare. 
 There is money to be made if Michael I. Roth, the chief executive, succeeds. For like other sluggish mutuals that have made the transition to stock ownership, MONY, as it is known, should come out of the gate in the next few weeks at a big discount. At an expected price of about $20 a share for its initial public offering, it would trade nearly 44 percent below the company's book value of $35.58 a share.
By contrast, publicly held life insurers are trading at about twice their book value.
But the discount is not there for nothing. "Mutual life insurance companies have deeply ingrained cultures," said Eric N. Berg, an analyst for CIBC Oppenheimer, an investment bank. "They can change. And some have. But changes in such conservative companies are hard fought."
Recent history is somewhat encouraging. The Equitable Life Insurance Company, now the Equitable Companies, shifted from a mutual to a stock structure in 1992 with an initial offering at $9 a share. After rising to about $20, the stock plateaued for several years before climbing to a peak of $84.1875 last July. It closed on Friday at $49. The State Mutual Life Assurance Company of America in Worcester, Mass., now the Allmerica Financial Corporation, went on the market in late 1995 at $21. It gradually rose to a peak of $75.25 this summer, and closed on Friday at $50.
These companies have picked up the pace. But MONY and its brethren are unlikely to ever be mistaken for sprinters. "This is a company for the long haul, something you might want to put in your kid's college fund," said Randall Roth, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, an initial-offering research firm in Greenwich, Conn.
MONY's is the first of a new wave of recently announced conversions, as big mutuals scramble to raise money for expansions aimed at gaining greater market share and economies of scale. MONY's offering is being watched by other mutuals that are converting, like Prudential and John Hancock, as well as still others, like Metropolitan Life, that are leaning that way.
MONY plans to issue 34 million shares to its 900,000 policyholders, who are the formal owners of the company, and to sell 11.3 million other shares, expecting to raise more than $200 million. (MONY had planned to sell 15.3 million shares before the stock market began to lose its zip.)
Underscoring that investors may be getting a bargain, some policyholders have said the offering should be delayed until the market improves. But Mr. Roth said at a New York State Insurance Department hearing two weeks ago that no one could be sure when that would be. And, down the road, he said, prices "could be worse."
MONY got into serious trouble in the late 1980's when it had lots of real estate and junk bonds -- more than many competitors -- and the value of both dropped sharply. While the company has been recovering, its return on equity is about 4 percent, below even the stolid 7 percent average for other mutuals and well below the 13 percent for publicly traded competitors.
Some who have looked at MONY's books do not like what they see. Robert E. Mescal, an analyst at the Institute for Econometric Research in Deerfield Beach, Fla., said he is skeptical about the company's reports that profits have risen sharply in the last 18 months though revenues have been flat, at about $2 billion, for several years.
MONY's prospectus shows the profit increase comes from capital gains on real estate sales, which many analysts say they eliminate in evaluating a company.
It does not look like a case of management trying to gussy up its performance, said Michael A. Frinquelli, a principal of Renaissance Fund Advisers, an investment fund. MONY looks like "a value stock," he said, adding that he was still researching but "we're predisposed to buying it."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Buy at the Bottom"
The Standard & Poor's Life Insurance Index has plummeted nearly 30 percent since April. The graph shows the index since January 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: THG (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK AXA FINANCIAL INC (93%); EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (68%); STATE MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (66%); HANOVER INSURANCE GROUP INC (66%); CIBC OPPENHEIMER (55%); NEW YORK STATE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK NEW YORK STATE INSURANCE DEPARTMENT (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKET SHARE (69%); FUNDRAISING (66%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B MICHAEL I ROTH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



31 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Tough Odds AsCasinos Multiply

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
MARK GREENBERG, portfolio manager of the Invesco Leisure fund, stayed at the new Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas last week, while attending the Salomon Smith Barney Leisure Conference. Widely considered the city's most luxurious and spectacular resort, the Bellagio boasts Picasso paintings on its walls, Italian marble on its floors and a man-made lake with 1,200 fountain spouts on its grounds.
The accommodations were indeed grand, but Mr. Greenberg was a bit unhappy about the price. "I wish my rate wasn't so good," he said. "It's $99 a night." 
 Mr. Greenberg's fund has a small amount of its money invested in Mirage Resorts Inc., which owns the Bellagio and hopes to charge $200 a night on average, a new high for Las Vegas. The fact that Mr. Greenberg got his room for $99 -- albeit on a weekday during a slow time of the year -- could be a sign of deep trouble for Las Vegas, the nation's largest gambling center.
Indeed, the Picassos aside, the Las Vegas picture is not pretty, at least for casino companies and investors. A looming oversupply of rooms and falling profits have battered their stocks; the hardest hit, like Circus Circus Enterprises and Primadonna Resorts, have fallen by about half this year.
But that might not mean that such stocks are bargains. "In that environment, the better question is not who thrives but who survives," said Harry Curtis, an analyst with BancBoston Robertson Stephens.
A glut of rooms is not the only concern. The Asian economic crisis has reduced visits by Asian high rollers. Revenue from baccarat, their game of choice, is down 24 percent through August this year. And Californians will vote Tuesday on a proposition that would expand Indian-run casinos in their state. The could siphon gamblers from Las Vegas, which drew 28 percent of its visitors from California last year.
The 3,000-room Bellagio, which opened on Oct. 15, is the first of four splashy hotels that together will increase the number of rooms in Las Vegas by more than 12,000, or 12 percent, in the coming year. The three others are Circus Circus's Mandalay Bay, Hilton Hotels' Paris, and the Venetian, owned by Sheldon Adelson, who made his fortune from the Comdex computer trade show. Still more hotels are set to open in 2000, bringing the room count to 128,000, up nearly 22 percent from 1997, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.
The new hotels represent a shift upward in price and luxury as casino operators hope to attract wealthy people, even if they are not gamblers, who might otherwise vacation in Palm Springs or Aspen. Instead of luring visitors with cheap rooms and 99-cent shrimp cocktails, the new hotels hope their fancy rooms, restaurants and shops will be profit centers in their own right.
In the past, new hotels have attracted enough visitors to more than fill the rooms they added. In 1993, the number of hotel rooms jumped by 12 percent with the opening of Treasure Island, Luxor and the MGM Grand. The next year, the number of visitors soared 20 percent.
But some analysts say that while the latest hotels will bring in more visitors, the increase will not be enough to fill the new capacity, in part because airline service to the city is insufficient. Mr. Curtis predicted that the visitor count would rise 4 to 4.5 percent a year, but that 6 percent growth would be needed for Las Vegas casinos as a group to meet earnings expectations.
 MOREOVER, a belief that each new round of hotels must be more spectacular than the last means higher construction costs, lowering potential returns. The Bellagio cost $1.6 billion, not including the Picassos. "There is no doubt that the returns on investment during this round of capital investment will be less than they were last time," said Andrew S. Zarnett, an analyst at Ladenburg Thalmann.
Many analysts recommend a flight to quality. "Some of the better operators will glean the lion's share of the profits, and others will be working very hard to make less money," said John J. Rohs, an analyst with Schroder & Company.
By consensus, analysts saw Mirage Resorts as the safest bet, though they differed on how safe it would be. It is the only casino company on Schroder's list of recommended stocks, and Mr. Rohs predicted that Mirage shares would be at $24 a year from now, compared with $16.9375 today.
Mr. Zarnett is a bit more optimistic about casino stocks in Las Vegas. He said the talk there was that the Bellagio was already drawing increasing numbers of visitors. In addition to Mirage, he recommended MGM Grand, with a price target of $35, up from $26.125 today. It has good management, a pristine balance sheet and a new convention center to help fill its rooms, he said.
But Jason N. Ader of Bear, Stearns said he would not invest in any Las Vegas casino operators right now. While the Bellagio should do well, Mr. Ader said, it might cannibalize business from other Mirage Resorts hotels. (He recommends Sun International Hotels, which is opening a casino on Paradise Island in the Bahamas, where it will face virtually no competition.)
Mr. Greenberg, despite small positions in Hilton and Mirage Resorts, is not buying any more Las Vegas casino stocks, quite a statement for a fund manager whose mission is to invest in leisure industries. "I don't know what they are going to do to get out of this problem," he said of the oversupply.
So perhaps the best reason for buying casino stocks now is that no one else seems to want them. This is what is known in Las Vegas as a long shot.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 3,000-room Bellagio Hotel, which opened Oct. 15, is one of four new resorts that will add a total of more than 12,000 hotel rooms in Las Vegas over the coming year. (Associated Press)
 
Map showing the location of the construction sites for the new Las Vegas hotels:
 
"Glitz Glut"
The number of Las Vegas hotel rooms is on track to swell by more than 20 percent over three years as dozens of construction projects are completed. Here are some of the biggest.
 
Hotel: Completion date -- Number of rooms
Bellagio: Oct. 1998 -- 3,005
Mandalay Bay: March 1999 -- 3,276
Venetian: April 1999 -- 3,036
Paris Hotel & Casino: 3d qtr. 1999 -- 2,914
Marriott Marquis at MGM: 1st qtr. 2000 -- 1,500
The New Aladdin: Spring 2000 -- 2,600
(Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%); MGM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (69%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE RESORTS INC (70%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (58%); INVESCO LTD (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (55%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (69%); NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDUSTRY PROFILES HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CASINOS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); GAMING (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESORTS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PAINTING (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); CARD GAMES (72%); TRENDS (71%); LAKES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW SHELDON G ADELSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



32 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
In Microsoft Case, a Lot Of Not Very Much

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
MOORE'S LAW -- which holds that the speed of computing doubles every 18 months -- is a concept that is hopelessly alien to the practice of law.
The Government's antitrust lawsuit against the Microsoft Corporation wound up its second week in Federal District Court in Washington on Friday, and the case, which was originally expected to be argued in a month's time, now looks as though it might drag on until close to Christmas. 
 Based on the stock market's response, it does not seem as though investors think the Government has much of a case. Since the trial began, Microsoft's shares have actually risen slightly, closing at $105.875 Friday.
Still, the case remains a wild card for Microsoft's prospects. George L. Priest, the John M. Olin Professor of Law and Economics at Yale Law School, talked about the trial and what it means for business.
 
Q. You have no interest in the case beyond that of a well-informed bystander. What is your take on what has transpired thus far?
 
A. I don't think the Justice Department has shown much of anything yet in the Microsoft case. They have emphasized meetings and memos that are ambiguous at best. But nothing I have read rules out the possibility that the Internet Explorer and its integration into Microsoft Windows is a superior product for consumers than an unbundled browser, such as Netscape's Navigator. And that has to be the ultimate standard: What is the impact on consumers? How are consumers worse off?
 
Q. It seems the Justice Department is bringing an antitrust case in an industry whose lifeblood is speed. Even if the Government wins its case, isn't there a risk that competitive conditions in the business will be far different once a remedy is proposed than they were when the case was brought?
 
A. The case will be obsolete by the time it is settled unless the judge rules for the Government and slaps some kind of injunction on Microsoft. That would be unfortunate for consumers, the economy and the world.
One of the problems is that most of our antitrust law has been developed in the context of manufacturing, where if a firm has a very large market share we know it will take a long time to erode, because of the costs of getting into the market.
But this is not U.S. Steel, whose monopoly took 30 years to erode. This is an industry where market share can be overturned in a very short period.
 
Q. What sort of remedy do you think might be imposed if the Government wins?
 
A. If the judge puts a limitation on the Microsoft browser, and tells them to unbundle it, that is not so important. It is not a clear gain for consumers, but it will not dramatically affect the industry.
As it is, anyone with the mildest level of computer sophistication can download Netscape's Navigator within a matter of minutes. It can't be an important restraint of trade to exclude Navigator when you can get it off the Internet that quickly.
 
Q. What if the court ordered a breakup of Microsoft?
 
A. I don't think Microsoft can be broken up. This is not a company with different plants. What are you going to do, put partitions in the halls of Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Wash.? The notion of breaking up Microsoft is lunacy.
 
Q. Still, might a victory over Microsoft embolden the Government to take on other high-technology companies?
 
A. I don't think the industry will be thrown into a tizzy if Microsoft loses, if only because Justice does not have the prosecutorial resources to bring massive numbers of suits.
This is not like the 1960's and 1970's, when the Warren Court began issuing decisions that effectively agreed with everything Justice brought before them. That type of authority did have a substantial impact on all industrial development in the United States, and it was only in the 1980's and 1990's that that sort of thrust has been reversed. I don't think that is going to happen here.
 
Q. The Microsoft case is capturing the headlines, but the Government recently brought an antitrust suit against Mastercard and Visa. Is this the start of a new period of activism by Justice in antitrust?
 
A. I don't know why Justice has gotten more active. It is unfortunate that it seems more activist on the behalf of individual firms that at the moment are not doing as well as their competitors in the marketplace, be they American Express in the Mastercard/ Visa case or Netscape Communications in the Microsoft action.
I am a strong supporter of antitrust law, as a general matter. But given the increased level of competition in the world, we are going to need fewer antitrust cases.
Monopolization will become less relevant because of the possibilities of entry into a given market. We have fewer trade restrictions now, and that allows foreign companies to enter and compete if there is even a threat of dominance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George L. Priest

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); INJUNCTIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); JUDGES (77%); LAWYERS (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: PRIEST, GEORGE L; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



33 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: William A. Oates Jr.;
Northeast Investors Growth Fund

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. LONG 

 BODY:
FOR the past 26 years, William A. Oates Jr. has picked his stocks from the same 10th floor office at 50 Congress Street, in the heart of Boston's historic financial district. The holdings in his Northeast Investors Growth fund are almost always proven, successful companies, often with blue-chip pedigrees. Many people might call his approach to investing old-fashioned or stodgy, even unsophisticated. But he calls it plain old common sense.
Mr. Oates, 56, doesn't use computerized screens or so-called black-box models to crunch the numbers. He employs no analysts to crank out fundamental research and ideas. 
 "They would come up with lots of ideas that I wouldn't listen to anyway," said Mr. Oates, displaying his independent side. "I'm not going to do what a 30-year-old Harvard business school graduate suggests, because I know more."
One thing he knows is to invest in stocks he is familiar with. "I'm looking for something I understand, that has a good track record, that has the potential to grow on a steady, understandable basis, and through that growth produce value over time."
That has led Mr. Oates to banks as well as to big technology, drug and media companies. His top 10 holdings are Mellon Bank, BankBoston, Pfizer, Microsoft, Time Warner, Warner-Lambert, Walt Disney, Zions Bancorporation, General Electric and Merck.
Investors should be forewarned that Mr. Oates is not afraid to be out of fashion. He recalls how the fund, which was started in 1980, languished from 1993 to 1994, during a particularly rough period for blue chips. And Northeast suffered during the recent market selloff, which punished financial stocks. From the market's peak on July 17 through Oct. 23, the fund lost 13.8 percent, versus a loss of 11.6 percent for its peer group of large-capitalization blend funds, according to Morningstar Inc., the financial publisher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.4 percent over that period.
Mr. Oates does not make big changes in his fund if he believes in the stocks. "My horizon is long-term," he said. "I want to make money over time." Turnover is 16 percent, versus a 64 percent average for its peer group, Morningstar said.
Mr. Oates's buy-and-hold disposition often leads to superior results. For the three-year period ended Oct. 23, the fund returned 25.6 percent, annualized, compared with 19.3 percent for its peer group and 25.1 percent for the S.& P.
 AS evidence of his independent style, one of his few sales this year was General Re, the giant reinsurance company being acquired by Berkshire Hathaway for stock valued at $22 billion at the time of its announcement on June 19.
"I sold it because I'm one of these guys that doesn't believe in Warren Buffett," Mr. Oates said, referring to Berkshire's chief executive. "I think he's a cult, and I think that Berkshire Hathaway is overvalued." General Re closed at $220 on Friday, above the $213, or so, at which he sold most of his shares.
That does not keep Mr. Oates from owning two of Mr. Buffett's favorite holdings. The first is Gillette, which Mr. Oates likes despite the panning it has received from some analysts since the launch of its new triple-blade razor, the Mach 3.
"This is a great company," he said, "but, you know, the little rabbits on Wall Street going around, they say, 'Gee, this blade isn't selling.' I say, 'Here's a company that's down about 25 percent, it's a market leader, it has an exciting new product, great pricing flexibility, and currently is out of favor.' And I say 'Let's buy more.' "
Despite gloomy Wall Street assessments of the blade, "Gillette says it's doing just fine," Mr. Oates said. "I think it is a superior shave." Gillette stock closed on Friday at $45.0625, off 28 percent from its 52-week high of $62.65625. Mr. Oates does not calculate target prices for his stocks, but he predicted that Gillette's earnings growth would be 15 percent to 16 percent a year over the next year or two and that the stock price would eventually follow.
Another Buffett holding that Mr. Oates likes, despite a slump in its price, is Disney.
"Everybody's down on Disney," he said, citing predictions that the company's theme parks might have lower traffic, among other reasons. "I think it is a premier entertainment company; I think Mickey Mouse is known throughout the world. Their theme parks are part of Americana; they have a fabulous ability to produce things -- apparel, hats -- and a fabulous ability to produce movies."
The stock closed at $26.9375 on Friday, down 37 percent from its 52-week high of $42.796875. He estimated 1999 earnings growth "in the neighborhood of 15 to 19 percent."
But Mr. Oates does not buy only blue chips. One favorite sector is regional banks, accounting for 20 percent of the fund's holdings. While the market has punished bank stocks in recent months, he said "common sense" determined that he add to his positions. "When you get a really good company and it's down 25 or 30 percent, and the fundamentals are basically the same and you've got some extra cash, then why wouldn't you buy a little more?" he asked.
 HE said recent decreases in interest rates should not hurt bank earnings, "because their cost of money is lower." The regionals are largely untouched by the Asian crisis, and some are likely targets for takeovers by national banks. And a healthy regional bank can reflect a robust regional economy, like that of the Mountain States.
Shares of Utah-based Zions, the fund's No. 8 holding, account for 2.6 percent of assets. Mr. Oates said Utah's population is growing, the bank is expanding, and "these people have a very good long-term record." He predicted future earnings growth of 13 percent to 14 percent a year.
The fund has owned Zions stock for at least a decade and has an average cost of about $30 a share, he said. It closed on Friday at $53.0625.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Oates Jr. likes things he knows well, including blue-chip stocks and framed reminders of his family's agricultural background. (Stella Johnson for The New York Times)
 
Northeast Investors Growth
Category -- Large blend
Net assets -- $158 million
Inception -- October 1980
Manager -- William A. Oates Jr. since Oct. 1980
Minimum purchase -- $1,000 ($500 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover -- 16%
 
Three-year annualized return through Oct. 23 -- 25.6%
Category average -- 19.3%
 
Sector breakdown
Technology -- 15.1%
Financials -- 34.2%
Services -- 11.0%
Health -- 15.4%
Other -- 24.2%
 
Fees
Front-end load -- None
Deferred load -- None
12b-1 fee -- None
Expense ratio -- 0.97%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports6%)
Category average 19.3%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); MORN (NASDAQ) (81%); ZION (NASDAQ) (66%); BK (NYSE) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEAST INVESTORS GROWTH FUND BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (81%); ZIONS BANCORP (66%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); PFIZER INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST INVESTORS GROWTH FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); REINSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: OATES, WILLIAM A JR; LONG, WILLIAM R WILLIAM A OATES JR (97%); WARREN E BUFFETT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



34 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: THE CULTURE OF MONEY;
Don't Laugh. That Sitcom Might Spell Bad Times.

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst is a novelist and financial journalist. His column on the cultural dimensions of money and business will appear the first Sunday of each month.
E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WORK has always been a problem for television.
Remember "Ozzie and Harriet"? Harriet Nelson was the classic stay-at-home mom, but nobody ever quite knew what her husband did for a living. Situation comedies sometimes filled the void by giving their stars an easy-to-portray career: being on TV. Recall, if you're old enough, the "Jack Benny Show," or "Burns and Allen." 
 When TV has depicted more conventional occupations, they tend to be dramatic. Police officers, lawyers and physicians litter the bluish-gray landscape of television history, and while a psychotherapist or a barkeeper turns up here and there, there are relatively few C.P.A.'s or dentists.
But the new TV season has brought a turning, however slight, away from the high-profile professions that have been especially prominent in the '90's in favor of a more workaday world. Plot lines are acknowledging that most people hold regular jobs. In new shows like "Jesse" (about a barmaid who aspires to be a nurse), "The King of Queens" (a deliveryman), "Southie" (about blue-collar Boston) and "Trinity" (blue-collar New York), life has taken a decidedly working-class turn.
Audrey Steele, who ought to know, calls it a minitrend. Ms. Steele, a senior vice president at Zenith Media Services Inc., which buys air time for advertisers, watched the pilot of every new show this fall and has lived to tell the tale.
She says this year's spate of blue-collar programs is a departure from shows in which affluent and glamorous characters live in great places and have few worries about money -- finances weren't much of a problem in "Seinfeld," for instance. But in one sense, the trend in the new shows isn't altogether new. For despite all the cowboys, doctors and cops, television has a parallel tradition of showing working men and women that dates from "The Honeymooners," with its bus driver and sewer worker and their homemaker wives, and runs through "All in the Family," "Sanford and Son," "Taxi," "Married with Children," "Roseanne" and even "The Simpsons."
But the timing of the proletarian upsurgeis interesting. Television is downshifting as the economy threatens to do likewise. And as a tinge of blue creeps into TV's collars, a dose of blue is coloring its characters' situations and their psychology. New shows like "Maggie Winters" and "Encore! Encore!" are built around people who have returned home in defeat from the wider world.
Could it be that television, with its antenna forever riveted to the Zeitgeist, has detected a kind of prosperity fatigue, a sense that we're all a little worn out by success, a little worried that it can't possibly last? Could the direction of the current TV season, planned months ago, be an early symptom of the economy's Asian flu?
I am aware of no study of television's effectiveness at this sort of prognostication, but there is a logic to the idea of TV as economic indicator. Whether television reflects consumer thinking or directs it can be argued long and hard. But mirror or lamp, we know television is created by executives striving mightily to produce programming that is of its time. So this fall, think of your set as an electronic version of a woolly caterpillar, portending a hard winter.
In fairness, of course, the new crop of shows includes some focusing on owners as well as on workers. For connoisseurs of TV culture, the hands-down winner in this genre has to be "Wind on Water," with Bo Derek as the matriarch of a Hawaiian cattle ranch. ("Interesting work if you can get it," Ms. Steele says.) Despite the sniping of critics who saw no redeeming value in the show (NBC pulled it from the schedule last week), it dealt frankly with such important business themes as cash flow, diversification and corporate succession. In need of money to support the struggling cattle operation, for instance, Ms. Derek's on-screen sons diversified away from agriculture by competing on the "extreme sports" circuit.
And you thought things were tough in your line of work.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Andy Eng)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BLUE COLLAR WORKERS; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (79%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); 

PERSON: AKST, DANIEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



35 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Sure, Banks Are Lending, But Will They Keep It Up?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
AS everyone surely knows by now, the global financial crisis has frightened lenders, making them very reluctant to buy corporate America's I.O.U.'s. Unless a company is among the elite -- an I.B.M. or a General Electric or an AT&T -- borrowing money has become an ordeal.
Such tightfistedness on the part of lenders can dry up economic activity. Companies borrow, for example, to buy new machinery and computers, and then pay off the debt from revenue the new equipment produces. Or they stockpile raw materials and finished merchandise, and repay the debt as the goods are sold. Shrink such activity long enough and a recession could ensue. 
 So it comes as pleasant news that banks are not pulling back in their lending to large corporations as other lenders are -- in fact, they are lending more, partly offsetting the pullback by the others. These other "lenders" are the mutual funds, the pension funds, the insurance companies, the Wall Street investment houses and the wealthy individuals who usually buy corporate I.O.U.'s, in the form of long-term bonds and short-term commercial paper issued by the nation's large companies. Lately, scared by the world financial turmoil, these investors have been sticking to risk-free Treasury securities instead.
The nation's banks are not as skittish. According to new Federal Reserve statistics, bank loans to business, adjusted for seasonal variations in lending, rose by $11.3 billion in September, compared with a rise of $7.6 billion in August, the month the credit crisis started. Then, in October, bank loans to all business rose by $25 billion in the first three weeks, to a total of $940 billion. Much of this $940 billion is going to smaller companies, which have always come to banks for most of their financing. But large companies account for the recent surge in loans -- companies like Seagram, Bridgestone/Firestone and Jefferson Smurfit, a paper manufacturer.
The surge in bank lending has not been enough to offset entirely the decline in the sale of corporate I.O.U.'s. New offerings of commercial paper have fallen by nearly $20 billion in recent weeks; on top of that, the sale of high-yield corporate bonds, sometimes called junk bonds, has almost disappeared. These sales normally raise $20 billion a month for companies that lack top-of-the-line credit ratings.
Still, the rise in bank lending "is somewhat alleviating what would otherwise be a severe credit crunch, and the question is, How long will it keep doing that?" said Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist.
The great hope is that the global financial crisis will lift early next year. Or by then, the people who used to invest in corporate I.O.U.'s, which pay higher interest rates than the Treasuries they are investing in now, will cease to be so nervous and start buying again. Until the crisis lifts, companies can somehow get by, everyone hopes, either by postponing projects or by borrowing from banks -- if not all the money they want, then at least some of it.
But there is a concern that, even in these final weeks of 1998, the rise in bank lending may be less than meets the eye, and less a support of the national economy than the Federal Reserve's statistics might indicate.
Rather than signaling a flow of new loans, much of the lending appears to be borrowers' drawing on existing lines of credit established months ago. What's more, while bank loans for general business activity are rising much faster than in the first half of the year, real estate lending is weak.
 BANK real estate loans are rising much more slowly now than in the first half of the year. Home mortgages are flowing fast enough, but loans for the purchase or construction of office buildings, plants and other commercial structures are not.
Banks like to sell to others the real estate loans they originate, and thus limit the amount of risk they bear in the event of defaults. That is easy for home mortgages, because Federal agencies are big purchasers of these loans. But commercial real estate loans must be sold into a market of private investors, and investors are not buying these commercial bank loans.
"Applications for commercial mortgages are way up, but the banks are not increasing what they have on the books, not yet," said Dennis Yeskey, regional managing director of real estate services for Deloitte & Touche.
A similar ceiling is likely to limit the growth of bank lending for standard business activity, despite the recent surge in such lending, because banks do not like to carry huge loans on their books. So they syndicate corporate loans, parceling out portions of a big loan to other banks. And loan syndication is not rising. Jefferson Smurfit, for example, sought recently to borrow $4 billion in new bank loans, but had to settle for just $550 million.
"The banks are not going to take that kind of risk," said James Davis, president of the Loan Pricing Corporation, which monitors bank lending. And that is why the banks, for all the current surge in corporate lending, are not likely to sustain the American economy through a financial crisis that lasts past January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); SKG (LSE) (55%); 5108 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322219 OTHER PAPERBOARD CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (55%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (52%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP PLC (55%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); BONDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PAPER MILLS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); INSURANCE (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); PAPER MFG (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS JEFFERSON SMURFIT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



36 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3261 words

HEADLINE: Lending Without a Net;
With Wall Street as Its Banker, Real Estate Feels the World's Woes

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON and CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
THE stylized map of Manhattan's skyscrapers on the wall behind Andrew D. Stone's desk at Credit Suisse First Boston is peppered with tiny yellow dots, each representing a real estate deal in which he had a hand.
There are more than 140 in all, from 17 Battery Place and 40 Wall Street in lower Manhattan to the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South and the Vinegar Factory on the Upper East Side. In just under three years, Mr. Stone, a confessed deal junkie and the head of CS First Boston's principal transaction group, poured more than $5 billion into commercial real estate loans and equity investments in New York, a total of $24 billion nationally. 
 So aggressive was his approach that last February, CS First Boston backed five of the seven bidders for 48 Wall Street, a landmark building in the heart of the financial district. "Relationships aren't our strength," Mr. Stone acknowledged last spring. "We love the market. If three guys are bidding, we'll back all three. We don't like to pick the partner we like best."
But the market Mr. Stone loved a few months ago is not the market of today. The real estate boom that he -- and the investment banks of Nomura Securities and Lehman Brothers, among others -- had fueled came to a screeching halt when global turmoil roiled markets in late summer.
The effects were sudden and drastic. Real estate deals collapsed. Initial public offerings were called off. The "flight to safety" that drove down stocks as investors sought comfort in Treasury bonds also decimated the market in the mortgage-backed securities that Wall Street sold to finance its real estate lending.
And the sound of knees knocking could be heard at industry conferences from Houston to Boston, as investors flashed back to the early 1990's, when inflated property values collapsed and overbuilt downtowns teemed with dark and half-empty buildings.
"We haven't hit our heads on the windshield, but it makes people think about how the world was five or six years ago," said Mark Teitelbaum, senior managing director of investment sales at Julien J. Studley Inc., a New York real estate company.
How did real estate -- the most local of businesses -- become exposed to the hazards of globalization? By coming to rely on Wall Street, the nerve center of the global economy, for financial backing.
Commercial banks and savings-and-loan institutions had stumbled -- and in some cases collapsed -- under the weight of billions in sour real estate loans in the recession of 1990-91, and they had all but stopped lending to developers and landlords.
Bankers like Mr. Stone and Ethan Penner of Nomura Securities became the new kingmakers in real estate, stepping in as the traditional banks bowed out. Their innovation was to turn commercial mortgages into securities. Instead of just letting the loans clutter up their own balance sheets, investment banks pooled the loans; cut the pools up into classes rated triple-A on down, just like municipal bonds or commercial paper, and sold the loans -- under the name "commercial mortgage-backed securities" -- to institutions, including pension funds, hedge funds and mutual funds.
In essence, they shared the wealth -- and risk. And the dollar value of commercial loans made by investment banks blossomed, from $17 billion in 1993 to $50 billion in the first eight months of 1998, before the effects of a stumbling market were felt, according to Commercial Mortgage Alert, a newsletter.
That river of cash invigorated downtown hubs, suburban office and industrial parks and apartment complexes, as owners renovated old buildings and added value to their assets. But it also allowed speculative buyers and developers to outbid each other for properties, driving prices ever skyward.
Now though, with financial investors demanding steeper returns on mortgage-backed securities or refusing altogether to buy the loans warehoused on the investment bankers' balance sheets, Wall Street has abruptly tightened the capital spigot to a mere trickle. And as a result, the real estate deals that aren't coming unwound are shriveling; properties are commanding as much as 25 percent less than sellers expected in June.
"Don't worry, the market'll come back," Steven Roth, the chairman of Vornado Realty Trust -- whose stock has fallen to $33.6875 from a high of $49.1719 in January -- told a crowd of real estate professionals at a recent conference. "You'll just be as old as I am when it does."
Warnings like that were almost unthinkable three months ago, and, to students of real estate fundamentals, hard to understand even now. Demand for office space is rising in most cities, particularly New York, where there has been limited building the last seven years. Asking rents in Manhattan jumped more than 28 percent the last two years, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate brokerage firm.
For all the immediate pain -- not least the $1.16 billion pretax loss recorded by Nomura last month, mostly because of losses in its mortgage-backed business -- that schism is the sign of hope in this wacky real estate market.
The current troubles are rooted in the way Wall Street financed growth, not in supply and demand for space. That suggests that the next downturn in real estate may be less devastating than the last because the excesses of the market are being weeded out. Already, bankers are limiting loans to 70 percent of a property's value, compared with 95 percent three months ago.
In short, with investment banks beholden to fixed-income investors who won't tolerate losses in their own portfolios, market discipline is having its salutary effect. "Gone are the days when the investment banks are going to buy wildly speculative deals where the cash flow is not in place," said Peter Hauspurg, chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties.
 
Grounding the Highfliers
Steven C. Witkoff was one of the first real estate meteors to streak across the New York skyline after the commercial real estate recession ended in the mid-1990's. Starting with a small 40-year-old office tower in 1995, he quickly acquired a stable of 30 buildings in five cities; up to 95 percent of the financing was provided by Credit Suisse First Boston or Lehman Brothers. For three years, Mr. Witkoff, a former real estate lawyer, was one profitable jump ahead of the rapidly escalating market.
"Witkoff had the vision to get in there when nobody else did," said Stephen B. Siegel, president of the New York-based real estate company Insignia/ESG and an adviser to Mr. Witkoff. "He bought his first building before anyone saw any appeal in the downtown market."
But Mr. Witkoff's current maneuvering is indicative of just how the financial markets have shaken the real estate operators who benefited so handsomely from Wall Street's free flow of financing. In recent weeks, Mr. Witkoff, 41, has struggled to hold his biggest trophy: the Woolworth Building, the handsome Gothic tower near City Hall in Manhattan.
He beat out rival bidders in July with what many experts thought was a rich offer: $157 million, or $160 a square foot. Three years earlier, Mr. Witkoff and other buyers could have acquired downtown office buildings for a cheap $17 a square foot. But in the summer of 1998, buyers had already snapped up the bargains, and many deals were being based on a projected spike in rents, not existing cash flow.
Then world markets tumbled, and Lehman backed away in September from financing the Witkoff deal.
Fearing he would lose the building, but reluctant to pay what now seemed like an exorbitant price, Mr. Witkoff pressed the Venator Corporation, as the Woolworth Corporation had been renamed, to renegotiate. Venator, anxious to close the deal by the end of the year and fearing that any other buyer would pay even less, agreed. They signed a new deal that is scheduled to close in early December for $137 million, a 14 percent discount from the original price. Mr. Witkoff, who put down a $15 million deposit, is confident that he will secure the financing.
Mr. Witkoff, like other leveraged speculators and developers, has pulled out of other deals and canceled development plans this fall as his financing disappeared. One junked deal was his planned acquisition of 11 buildings from the TIAA-CREF pension fund. "The underlying economics of real estate didn't change," said Philip DiGennaro, a managing director of TIAA-CREF who negotiated with him. "It's the capital markets that changed, and Witkoff was concerned about going forward without having his financing locked up."
Other operators have fared far worse. Crescent Real Estate Equities, a Fort Worth company controlled by the financier Richard E. Rainwater and one of the largest commercial landlords in the country, called off its $465 million purchase of office buildings in Illinois and California and canceled a $1.5 billion agreement to buy a casino company. The developer Harry Macklowe lost a deal -- and possibly his $6 million deposit -- to buy the 22-story building at 460 Park Avenue in New York after he failed to round up new financing when Lehman Brothers pulled the plug, according to brokers and bankers.
"Financing is being pulled left and right," said Michael T. Cohen, president of GVA Williams Real Estate, a prominent landlord and real estate broker in New York. "It's cut the legs out from under the highfliers."
With the securities markets wilting, Mr. Witkoff and Mr. Macklowe are among a group of real estate investors who have had to abandon plans to take their companies public. Many had gone on shopping sprees in New York and elsewhere, seeming to pay almost any price to expand their portfolios on the expectation that they could pay down their loans and pay off their partners with the proceeds of a stock offering.
If the economy slows and rents fail to rise as much as these highly leveraged investors expected, some of them will come under pressure, either when their loans from the investment banks come due in three or four years or even sooner. Jules Demchick, president of the J. D. Carisle Development Corporation in New York, said he had been contacted by a number of investment bankers asking whether he would be interested in taking over development deals on which the banks might have to foreclose.
Mr. Witkoff, who pulls in enormous management fees on his properties, said he could easily weather the storm. Although the leverage on his properties -- the amount he owes in loans against them -- ranges from 75 percent to 92 percent of their value, he says he has cut operating costs and leased vacant space at increasingly higher rents.
"I've bought solid, cheap bricks in good locations," Mr. Witkoff said.
Real estate brokers and developers say that the retreat by Wall Street lenders has taken the froth out of the market. Besides falling prices, the number of prospective buyers will probably drop, too, as lenders insist on higher levels of equity.
But, they add, real estate markets in most of the United States remain healthy, if only because vacancy rates are low and -- in most places -- there are few new office towers on the way.
"Wall Street has gotten religion," said Mitchell S. Steir, executive vice president of Julien J. Studley. "Instead of chasing every deal in their path, they've decided to shut off the spigot for the time being. Now deals will have to stand on merit, rather than on some dream-like fantasy about rents."
 
The Open-Vault Policy
 If anyone was the poster boy for Wall Street's aggressive fueling of the real estate boom in the 1990's, it was Ethan Penner, the self-proclaimed rock-and-roll banker who started Nomura Securities' commercial lending unit in 1993 and resigned in September in a shake-up of Nomura's American operations.
If a developer wanted a quick loan, Mr. Penner delivered. At its zenith, his unit was making $1 billion in commercial loans a month, for a total of $32 billion before it was spun off in June as a subsidiary -- the Capital Company of America.
But his popularity with borrowers sometimes came at the expense of investors.
Last March, Mr. Penner upset some investors in Nomura's mortgage-backed securities by not disclosing that one of the bank's offerings included loans with a novel structure that could result in lower financing costs for borrowers. The device, however, could also carry tax implications for investors. Competitors of Nomura contacted the rating agencies once they figured out what Nomura was up to. Lehman Brothers was particularly vocal, and an incensed Mr. Penner says he called Richard S. Fuld Jr., the bank's chief executive, to bawl him out.
"This is a disgrace to your firm," Mr. Penner says he told Mr. Fuld.
A Lehman spokesman would not comment on the matter.
Institutional investors not told about the loans were angry when they found out. As a result, the ratings agencies demanded that Nomura and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which was distributing the securities, amend the prospectus to fully disclose the terms.
"If they had just disclosed it, there wouldn't have been a ruckus," said Gale Scott, a managing director in the real estate finance group at Standard & Poor's, one of the ratings agencies.
Wall Street's real estate financiers were caught off guard by August's front-page news, as Russia stopped payment on its bonds and both Asian and Latin American markets shuddered. Focused on real estate fundamentals, they had not counted on the bond market troubles' widening the spread between their products and Treasury securities as investors gravitated to less risky investments.
By Aug. 28, bankers were already anxious as the spread on triple-A commercial mortgage-backed securities grew to 110 basis points (or 1.1 percentage points) over 10-year Treasury securities, up from 80 basis points at the beginning of June. By Sept. 25, they were panicking as the spread reached 145 basis points.
Banks faced trouble on several fronts. Their loan portfolios, which respond to market activity in ways similar to any sort of fixed-income investment, fell sharply in value as investors sought safer havens.
And there were fewer buyers for their mortgage-backed securities. Criimi Mae Inc., a real estate investment trust that sought bankruptcy protection on Oct. 5, was said to have backed out of a preliminary agreement to buy $137 million of subordinated notes in a $1.3 billion deal offered by the Capital Company of America in September.
Deborah Boyer, a portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund family in Baltimore, said her company, a buyer of mortgage-backed securities last spring for some private accounts, is not investing in the market now, either.
"Eventually, real estate is going to go into a downturn," she said. "We fear what is going to happen -- fear of a collapse."
There were other complications. If banks did go forward with securities offerings, the rates they would be compelled to pay investors would likely be higher than the interest they were collecting on the loans in their portfolios -- a money-losing equation. And investors would want to buy only the highest-rated portions of the deals coming to market, forcing banks to keep the riskiest loans in their portfolios.
"Any bank today that is holding loans originated earlier this year is probably finding those loans under water," said John Levy, chairman of John B. Levy, a real estate investment bank in Richmond.
Much of Wall Street simply stopped making new loans. In August, Credit Suisse First Boston told clients that it was backing away from more than $750 million in real estate deals and shutting its financing operations until the market improved. Lehman Brothers said it would become more "selective."
It didn't take long for the weakest links to emerge. In mid-September, Capital America disclosed that it had received $113 million in margin calls on its credit lines with Morgan Stanley.
In Tokyo, officials of Nomura Securities began pouring money into the floundering American real estate operations. By Oct. 22, when Nomura announced that it was taking a pretax loss of $1.16 billion for the six months ended Sept. 30, the company had sunk $1.73 billion into bailing out its units in the United States -- fully half the size of the rescue mounted for Wall Street's most notorious recent basket case, the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund.
Most of Nomura's losses in the United States came from marking down the value of its huge inventory of real estate-related loans. Currently, the company has about $10 billion in commercial loans on its books.
In the heyday of the mortgage-backed securities market, Mr. Penner estimates that his unit made $1 billion for Nomura. But in the wake of recent losses, many of the bank's top American executives have resigned -- including Mr. Penner, who left with a $30 million severance package.
 
Where's the Next Domino?
Are there more time bombs like Nomura's waiting to go off among Wall Street's real estate lending operations?
Most banks like to clear loans off their books by year's end. But December is approaching, and the bond market has shown only modest improvement in recent weeks. Any bank selling mortgage-backed securities into this market, traders say, will be hard-pressed to make a profit.
A week ago, Lehman Brothers completed the biggest sale ever of mortgage-backed securities -- a $3.8 billion offering with interests in 172 properties, including Manhattan's famed General Motors building on Fifth Avenue. But because the deal was structured to be paid off quicker than typical offerings of this sort and had a floating interest rate, analysts said it did not reflect the health of the market over all.
Yet the market's genius is at work. With Wall Street's lending spigot turned low, new sources of capital for the real estate industry are emerging.
The developer Richard Kalikow recently closed on his $245 million acquisition of the Helmsley Building, at Park Avenue and 45th Street in Manhattan, with backing from the Bass family of Texas. Now that cash is king and prices are falling, real estate investment funds like those operated by Apollo Real Estate Advisors, Blackacre Capital Group and Westbrook Partners -- even Credit Suisse First Boston's Praedium Fund -- are panting to buy what they think will be "excellent opportunities" when the dust finally settles, according to real estate executives.
Some investment bankers may change their pinstripes, too. Rumors abound that Mr. Stone, guru of CS First Boston's mortgage-backed lending operation, will be tossed out, that the investment bank is losing millions and that he is stuck with $2 billion in high-risk mortgages no one will dare buy.
Yet there is talk, too, that Mr. Stone is about to start a fund -- with financial support from CS First Boston -- that would invest in just the sort of low-grade commercial mortgage-backed securities the bank is having so much trouble selling.
Mr. Stone denies most of it, though he acknowledges that his day of reckoning is near. He said his unit at CS First Boston made "a huge amount of money" in the first half of the year, albeit less since then. None of his loans are in default, he added. And if he can reduce the $9.3 billion in American mortgages on the bank's balance sheet -- by, among other things, selling $4 billion in securities in two large offerings later this month -- he will be in good shape, he said.
"I could be sitting pretty, or licking my wounds," Mr. Stone said. "I'm feeling very upbeat now.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew D. Stone has handled 140 deals at CS First Boston. Steven C. Witkoff jumped into the real estate market in the mid-90's. (pg. 9)
 
Chart: "HOW WALL STREET FINANCES REAL ESTATE DEALS"
 
1. A real estate developer or investor who wants to buy a building seeks financing from an investment bank.
 
2. The investment bank makes the loan at, say, 7 percent interest. The bank pools the loan with loans, and interests in the pool are then sold as securities yielding an interest rate, say, 5 percent, allowing the bank make a profit. Pools of riskier loans get lower credit ratings and carry higher yields.
 
3. Institutional investors, including pension funds, mutual funds and hedge funds, buy the securities, known as commercial mortgage-backed securities.
 
HOW THE PROCESS BROKE DOWN
 
1. World bond markets tumbled in mid-August. As investors sought havens for their money, buyers of mortgage-backed securities demanded greater returns. The "spread" -- the difference between the yield offered on these securities and that paid on Treasury securities -- widened.
 
2. For investment banks, the wider spreads cut into the profits to be made from reselling loans as securities. So they pulled back on making new loans and often were unable to profitably resell loans they had already made. The more risky loans that they cannot resell, the greater the possible damage to the banks.

3. Developers and investors are finding it harder to get money to buy properties. In many cities, the commercial real estate market has slowed significantly. (Illustration by Tom Starace)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "As bank lending for commerical properties stagnated..."
Percentage change from previous year in outstanding commercial real estate loans by commercial banks and savings and loans.
 
...Wall Street stepped into the breach...
Commercial mortgage-backed securities sold.
 
...But when global woes put the squeeze on profits...
As worried investors rushed to buy Treasury bonds this summer, they also demanded that investment banks offer higher yields on mortgage-backed securities, so the spread between the two widened quickly.
The graph shows the difference in yield between newly issued 10-year commercial
mortgage-backed securities and 10-year Treasuries.
 
...Investors lost their appetite for mortgage bonds.
Sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities dropped sharply in the third quarter.
 
*Change from the first six-month period of previous year.
(Sources: Sheshunoff Information Services Inc.; Commercial Mortgage Alert; Morgan Stanley)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CS FIRST BOSTON JULIEN J STUDLEY INC (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CS FIRST BOSTON

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); BONDS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STONE, ANDREW D; HOLSON, LAURA M; BAGLI, CHARLES V ANDREW D STONE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



37 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2740 words

HEADLINE: Global Crisis for Coca-Cola, Or a Pause That Refreshes?

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
THE World of Coca-Cola, which on the cultural scale falls somewhere between legitimate museum and Disney-style extravaganza, is one of M. Douglas Ivester's hangouts. Once a month or so, he likes to pop in, gaze at the exhibits of Coke ephemera and eavesdrop on the tourists crowded around.
The other day he spied a jukebox, punched up a bouncy 1930's tune, the "Coca-Cola March," and lingered for a moment to listen. "Doesn't it just make you want to get a flag and march," he asked, "and then go attack the world?" 
 For the Coca-Cola Company, attacking the world -- with or without musical accompaniment -- has become a lot harder lately. Just one year into his tenure as chairman and chief executive, Mr. Ivester finds himself leading Coke through extraordinarily bleak times.
Sales have shriveled in miserable synchrony with the collapse of the Russian ruble, the continued economic morass in Japan, worries about an impending monetary crisis in Brazil and an assortment of other ills -- even bad weather in Germany. Gloom would have every reason to prevail in the corporate world of Coca-Cola, a company that gathers 75 percent of its profits outside the United States and is the archetype of the American multinational corporations that rode the 90's promise of an ever-expanding global economy directly into investors' hearts.
But if others confronting today's economic woes seem befuddled -- think of the International Monetary Fund, this or that central banker, the hobbled gurus of the hedge fund business -- Mr. Ivester and his fellow Coke executives exhibit an almost surreal confidence. It is perhaps a byproduct of so many years spent selling a high-fructose, caramel-colored beverage that, by most measures, people can live without.
Ask Mr. Ivester about the inhospitable global atmosphere, and you might soon wonder why you even brought it up. Crisis? What crisis? By his definition, it's business as usual.
"This is a changed environment for people of a certain age," he said, referring to the generation of business people who have only known the 1990's expansion. "But for the Coca-Cola Company it's nothing new. We've worked in these environments for years. We go to a country to stay. We don't go to a country for the good times."
After all, said Mr. Ivester, who is 51 and joined Coke 19 years ago, Coke is adept at wringing profits out of its most remote operations -- patches of jungle or desert, lonely islands and other spots he calls "upcountry." With a touch of scorn, he added: "Eighty-five percent of the places we do business in are tough, and they've always been tough. A lot of companies rushed in and got some of the cream that was rising to the top."
It's brave talk. But can Coca-Cola weather so many simultaneous flare-ups when it is so dependent on overseas earnings? Is its bet on global growth so big as to be too risky? Does the situation spell extended weakness for company earnings?
Coke itself is making no predictions beyond the fourth quarter of this year, when it has said earnings will be down versus the comparable period in 1997. And this comes on the heels of a third quarter in which earnings were down 12.2 percent.
Investors are offering a tentative vote of confidence. With the encouragement of analysts who were impressed by Mr. Ivester's calm demeanor in delivering his earnings warning at a meeting in late September, they have bid the stock up from a low of $53.6875. It closed on Friday at $67.5625, still 24 percent off its mid-July high of $88.9375.
 BUT the market is not always a shrewd judge when it is infatuated with a stock; sometimes, a rally can lead into a bear trap. Given Mr. Ivester's talking down of expectations for the rest of the year, investors are paying a price-to-earnings multiple of 46 for the company.
The risks for companies like Coke are "becoming clearer," said Leah Modigliani, an equity strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, "but they were really there before as well." Coca-Cola and other global consumer marketers like Procter & Gamble and Gillette may be great companies, she said, but sometimes, "great companies shouldn't really be confused with great stocks."
In Coke's favor are its management, deep with people who have broad international business experience, and its deep pockets, which allow it to invest heavily at any time. Working against it are the global uncertainty that continues to preoccupy investors and the question of whether the company will need to spend abnormal amounts to generate the growth that impresses.
"It's been a long time since they've had to manage through this much turmoil on such a broad-based scale," said Doug Lane, a beverage analyst for Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Ivester has the added burden of replacing a legend: the genteel, Cuban-born Roberto C. Goizueta, who died of complications from lung cancer in October 1997.
Mr. Goizueta was revered by almost everyone who holds even a splinter of Coke stock for his relentless focus on shareholder value. During his 16-year tenure as chief executive, the company's book value mushroomed from $4.3 billion to $147 billion, attracting such august investors as Warren E. Buffett and anointing new millionaires all over Atlanta and the red-clay country beyond.
Still, the leadership transition was all but seamless, largely because Mr. Ivester, as company president and Goizueta confidant, had been integrally involved in top-level decisions for a long time. Among other things, he was the architect of the spinoff and consolidation of Coca-Cola's bottlers that did wonders for the parent company's balance sheet, moving off debt and stoking profits. A man whose posture and stride bring to mind those polar bears featured in so many Coke commercials, Mr. Ivester seems to have blossomed in his new role, exuding a certain charm where he was once the numbers man hovering in the background.
But he now stands alone at the top -- he has purposely avoided naming a No. 2 -- and Coke's numbers are certainly off. Sales volume worldwide rose by only 3 percent in the three months ending Sept. 30, compared with 11 percent in the period a year earlier. And he acknowledged being surprised at the speed with which the global situation unraveled. "I don't think you anticipate these sorts of things," he said.
Historically, analysts say, Coke has used its considerable capital to ride out financial traumas -- the devaluing of the Mexican peso in 1994, for example -- while smaller competitors retreated or even failed.
But now, with so many problems on so many fronts, the company has kicked into higher gear. There are meetings each week about Germany, Coke's third-biggest market, where concerns include currency value and bottling efficiency as well as the weather, and every six weeks about Japan, second only to the United States in generating profits.
In Indonesia, where sales have fallen by 21 percent as the economy has tumbled into depression, Coke is heavily marketing its returnable glass 6-ounce bottle -- a low-cost size -- in hopes of spurring a rebound. A car sweepstakes in Germany and coupons on 2-liter bottles in Russia are other strategies in a global effort to improve volume.
With so many consumers chastened, though, Coke faces an uphill fight. In Brazil, cheaper second-tier brands known as "Tubainas" are cutting into Coke's market share. "Coke is much better, but too expensive," said Terezinha Barros Neves, a housekeeper from Rio de Janeiro.
One analyst, Laura Meizler of Salomon Smith Barney, points to "actual declines in core Coca-Cola products" in Brazil, adding: "You will see an even bigger decline in the fourth quarter."
In Venezuela, Coke's anchor bottler, Panamco, has lost market share over the last year to Pepsico, which recently started an aggressive discounting program, Ms. Meizler added.
 COKE is reeling in costs wherever it can, from postponing training programs to reducing work by outside contractors. Its bottlers in Japan are being pushed into collaboration: instead of producing every Coca-Cola product, each will specialize in a few products and sell them across a wider region. Analysts say the plan has met with considerable resistance.
"When times are good, you don't think about these things," said Douglas N. Daft, Coke's group president for Asia and the Middle East. "Boy, have I practiced everything I've ever learned."
Day to day, Mr. Ivester counsels Coke executives around the globe, whom he and others describe as depressed. Don't cancel the Christmas party, he told one manager; it would send the wrong message. Don't take problems like the Russian economic situation personally; instead, he advises his deputies, look for opportunity in the rubble.
"Almost immediately, I started saying, 'Let's capitalize on this,' " Mr. Ivester said.
His fundamental tactic is to encourage his troops to share a mindset that posits the company working its way through the current mess and, ultimately, coming out ahead. It is a philosophy that seems rooted in his childhood on the fringes of Gainesville, Ga.
He was an only child, and his parents, both factory workers, gave him "as much opportunity as they could," he said. They also gave him their undivided attention, he added, pressuring him to succeed in school.
"My father's point of view was, if they gave A-pluses and you didn't have all A-pluses, you weren't all the way there," said Mr. Ivester, who remains close to his parents -- and motivated to win.
"Mindset to me is setting a destination," Mr. Ivester said. "It's not a matter of if we're going to get there. It's a matter of when. I've been that way my entire life."
 HE works seven days a week, often long into the night. His travel schedule is exhausting, too. He has visited 19 countries since the beginning of the year, making seven stops during one 11-day trip in September.
Even outings to the supermarket are research missions: Mr. Ivester will often stand at the end of the checkout lane to see what beverages people are buying. Overseas, he has been known to peer into trash baskets to see how people are spending their snack money.
"He is not in the ivory tower," says Andrew M. Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley. "He is out in the field." (Sometimes, in fact, he can be seen driving himself to the field in his bright red Porsche.)
All of Mr. Ivester's deputies have learned, sometimes the hard way, that voice mail is the boss's favorite form of communication.
"If there's any relevant data on something, I leave him a message on it," said Mr. Daft, "four times a day, minimum, when I'm in Atlanta and five or six times a day when I'm traveling."
Mr. Daft once thought he could travel without so much contact with Mr. Ivester. The first time he didn't check in for several days, Mr. Ivester called to say, "I was really worried about you."
Mostly, though, Mr. Ivester's current worry is about how to expand the business. At a billion servings of Coke-owned drinks a day, it simply is not big enough for him. He likes to point out that people around the world are consuming 47 billion other drinks that aren't Coke -- every day. It's that mindset business again.
Charles S. Frenette, who became Coke's director of marketing in May, said: "There is a fundamental belief in this company that we have unlimited potential as far as anyone can see or imagine. It's simply our job to figure out how to remove the barriers to that growth."
Jack L. Stahl, the Coke group president who oversees business in the United States and Canada, added, "I've never heard Doug say 'I'm satisfied.' " Recently, Mr. Stahl got a bottler to increase his sales growth projections to 12 percent a year, from 3 percent. He said that when he proudly reported that to Mr. Ivester, the response was, "Twelve percent? That's really just a mindset, isn't it?" It was clear that 24 percent would have been better.
Competitors have a special place in the Coke mindset. Inside Coke headquarters, no one refers by name to Pepsi-Cola; instead, it's "P-cola" or "P-company." And when asked about the competition, Coke executives routinely refer to the power of their own brands, not the threat from someone else's.
But there is much evidence that they do care. Last June, at the Atlanta hotel where Coke was conducting a meeting for money managers and analysts, one attendee was amused by the spectacle of the room-service staff scrambling to remove bags of Frito-Lay snacks -- made by Pepsico, Pepsi's parent -- from the mini-bars.
Coke, like any other major soft-drink company, would rather have its own products in every nook and cranny -- to the exclusion of others, when possible. The practice of obtaining exclusive distribution rights is at the center of a Federal lawsuit Pepsico filed earlier this year against Coca-Cola, contending that Coke used its considerable leverage to force food-service distributors to drop Pepsi fountain products. Coke officials say the lawsuit is groundless.
"Doug's mission is to place that stuff in every conceivable market and to convince people that they should drink it," said Tom Pirko, a Manhattan-based consultant who works with Coke and other soft-drink companies. "There's a belief system there that they are doing the right thing."
 A GLOBAL depression could certainly challenge the mindset. And the economics of Coca-Cola's business could be roiled by a proposed rule change by the Financial Accounting Standards Board that, if enacted, might force the company to reabsorb billions of dollars in debt that is now on the books of major bottlers around the world.
But Coca-Cola's board has confidence in the people it has put in charge.
"Coke and other businesses are being affected by the rolling movement of the Asian flu," said Donald F. McHenry, the former American Ambassador to the United Nations and a Coke director since 1981. "All companies are going to have to react and adapt their plans, and Coke is no different." Coke, he added, is "in very good hands."
Indeed, a close encounter with Coke's inner circle leaves the impression that the chief executive thinks the outside world simply needs to follow his example.
"I drink water occasionally," Mr. Ivester said when asked what else was on his personal beverage list. Then he said softly, almost under his breath, "Why would you drink anything other than a Coke product?"
 
An Investor Who Shares the Zeal
 THE global picture may be unsettling, but Warren E. Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. controls about 200 million shares of Coca-Cola, says Coke's business will keep rolling along.
"In given countries at given times there will be hiccups," Mr. Buffett, a Coca-Cola director since 1989, said in a telephone interview on Thursday from his office in Omaha. "But that doesn't take your eye off where you want to be 10 or 15 years from now, which is to have everybody drinking nothing but Coke."
A big part of Mr. Buffett's investing strategy is to find corporate executives in whom he has deep faith and then stick by them for the long haul. "The top guy does set the tone for the way the people down the chain behave," Mr. Buffett said. "If the top guy is thinking about his golf game, the other guys start thinking about their golf game."
That isn't a problem at Coke. Mr. Buffett was a big believer in Roberto C. Goizueta, the company's late chief executive, and he says he believes in Mr. Goizueta's successor, M. Douglas Ivester.
"I've seen him in action a long time, and he's got a burning passion about the company," Mr. Buffett said. "It's a mission with him. He can't control exchange rates, and he can't control the domestic economy of a country. But if you keep pouring it on, people are always going to get thirsty, and there are always going to be more people who want to buy your product."
Coke's pricing, near ubiquitous availability and generally positive image all work in the company's favor, too, Mr. Buffett said.
Indeed, Mr. Buffett and Mr. Ivester have teamed up to do their part on the ubiquity front.
Not long ago, Mr. Buffett went out with his grandson for pizza at an Omaha restaurant and discovered that the place served Pepsi, not Coke.
"I mentioned it to Atlanta, and World War III broke out," Mr. Buffett said. "They're now serving Coke."
He added, "I don't think Doug sleeps at night if that one pizza parlor in Omaha isn't selling Coke." CONSTANCE L. HAYS

GRAPHIC: Photos: These are tough times for multinational companies, but Coca-Cola's chief, M. Douglas Ivester, says the company should stick to its philosophy that markets can always be widened. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)pg. 1); Warren E. Buffett (pg. 9)
 
Chart: "What the World Needs Today?"
Coca-Cola derives three-quarters of its profits from outside the United States. With today's global economic woes -- from Japan's malaise to the collapse of the Russian ruble -- Coke's sales growth is slowing worldwide, and the company faces an uphill battle in squeezing more profits from its operations.
 
U.S.
25% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: up 4% from 3d qtr. a year ago
 
JAPAN
20% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: Unchanged from 3d qtr. a year ago
 
INDONESIA
Less than 1% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: down 21% in the first half of this year
 
GERMANY
11% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: down 9% from 3d qtr. a year ago
 
BRAZIL
4% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: up 1% from 3d qtr. a year ago
 
RUSSIA
Less than 1% share of worldwide profits*
Case volume: down 20% from 3d qtr. a year ago
 
Friday's close: $67.5625
*Profit share is as of Dec. 1997.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Merrill Lynch; the Coca-Cola Company)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GERMANY (87%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); GERMANY (87%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSIC (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); 

PERSON: HAYES, CONSTANCE L; IVESTER, M DOUGLAS WARREN BUFFETT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



38 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Energy Addicted in America

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
IT was during the oil embargo era of the 1970's that Patricia Nelson Limerick, who is now a leading historian of the American West, announced to her students at Yale that Americans' outlook and behavior had gone through a momentous change. No more vistas of limitless resources. No more endlessly rising consumption. The Era of Scarcity had begun.
To save fuel and emphasize her belief, Ms. Limerick got around by bicycle, train and bus. 
 But 25 years later, Americans are consuming about as much energy as ever. By next year, the Energy Department predicts consumption per person will come to within 2 percent of the 1973 peak. Americans are living in bigger homes crammed with more appliances and driving larger, more powerful cars and more light trucks.
Ms. Limerick is still riding buses. But she admits she got the broader pattern wrong. "I was quite a sucker," she says.
 
The Land Grab
Far from illustrating a transformation in American character, the nation's heavy and rising use of its most basic fuels illustrates consistencies. The distinctions between America and most other advanced nations endure. As the 19th-century American historian Frederick Jackson Turner famously said, the frontier set America apart from its European forebears. For Americans, there was always more land, food and fortune out there for the grabbing.
Though the Census Bureau declared the frontier closed more than a century ago, in many ways it remains open. Americans have gone back to using energy as if it were limitless -- consuming far more per person than Asians or Europeans. Only Canadians, with more heavy industry and more chilblains, consume more. Low energy prices are regarded as a part of the Bill of Rights. Politicians who try to tax or otherwise raise the cost of fuel anywhere near the levels in Europe are summarily rebuked.
The wide open frontier still lives in the naming and advertising of pickups and sports utility vehicles. Americans venture forth in their Blazers, Explorers and Durangos. In commercials these trucks rumble over endless stretches of Western highway.
Revisionist historians like Ms. Limerick point out that Western settlement also included official repression of Indians and other minorities, the ravaging of the environment and a culture of violence. Revisionist Western states and cities that once welcomed mining and development are now trying to clean up pollution from those mines and control urban sprawl.
America's pattern of settlement, more dispersed than in most other advanced nations, locks in the need for cheap, abundant energy. But underneath the roar of factory machinery, home construction and expressway traffic is the clang of a moral clash.
Half the nation's oil is imported. Scientists caution that emissions from rising energy use aggravate global warming. But ever since proto-environmentalists warned of timber depletion in the 1870's, Americans have learned to doubt the need for conservation.
Within the country, energy use varies greatly. New Yorkers and Hawaiians are practically foreigners, merely sipping fuel while Alaskans and Texans guzzle it. The average Alaskan uses more than five times as much energy as the New Yorker, who uses the least; the Texan burns more than two and a half times as much.
The presence of heavy industry accounts for the greatest differences. Louisiana and Texas, besides having plenty of oil wells, are home to the chemical and refining businesses. Alaska and Wyoming produce great quantities of oil, coal and natural gas, especially in proportion to their populations.
In New York, smokestacks and drilling rigs are few but subway and taxi riders many. New Yorkers are also more apt than other Americans to live jammed into apartments whose energy demands are far lower than for houses. And with common walls, says Arthur Rypinski, a Department of Energy economist, "You get to share your neighbor's heating and cooling." As for Hawaii, it counts more on tourism and pineapples than on petrochemical plants, and has far lower heating bills than Wyoming or Alaska.
During the 1970's embargo era, Texans, who considered their state an honorary member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, were never shy about letting Northerners know who had the most fuel. Bumper stickers on their Lincoln Continentals and long-bed pickups said, "Let the Yankees Freeze in the Dark." With oil prices so low, perhaps Texans should mount a gracious campaign assuring New Yorkers they are welcome to every drop Texas has.
 
A Lowly Light Bulb
In Washington, the conflict between the energy-hungry life style and energy-saving impulses extends to the White House. At his conference on global warming last October, President Clinton confessed his doubts about how much the nation could alter its ways. Or even how much he could change his own.
"I'm plagued by the example of the light bulb I have in my living room of the White House that I read under at night," Mr. Clinton said, "and I ask myself, 'Why isn't every light bulb in the White House like this?' " The lighting in question was a readily available, compact fluorescent bulb whose longer life and energy efficiency pay for its initial high cost several times over. "Why are we not all doing this?" he asked.
Faced with a battle many Americans agree is worth fighting but don't want to fight themselves, the Clinton Administration has proposed hiring hungry foreign mercenaries. Through trading in emissions rights, the White House plans to pay developing countries to achieve about three-fourths of America's reductions required under last year's Kyoto accord. Europe and Japan have howled that this plan violates that accord, at least in spirit. They must be cranky from having to drive such tiny cars.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The family truck: sports utility vehicles at a mall in Troy, Mich.
(Tahra Makinson-Sanders for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ALASKA; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); WEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER HISTORY (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (60%); CENSUS (53%); COLD INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R PATRICIA NELSON LIMERICK (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



39 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: The Impeachment Breather

 BODY:
Until a few days ago, the possible impeachment of President Clinton was the campaign issue of which few dared speak. Republicans have been afraid to be seen exploiting the subject. Democratic candidates did not want to be seen defending the President or even standing near him, except in a few party strongholds. Both parties seemed to believe that voters wanted a respite from the scandal. Now, however, Republicans have injected the issue into several races, and Democrats have responded with ads calling for Congress to move on. There is some logic to putting Mr. Clinton back on the agenda. The 106th Congress, after all, will have no more urgent priority than deciding his fate.
The Republicans designed the ads to energize their core vote in selected districts without stirring a backlash among the Democrats and independents they want to stay home. If the strategy helps produce a Republican gain greater than 20 seats, the hunkered-down Republican leadership will take that as a signal to push hard on impeachment. Democrats say that if they can hold the losses to 10 or so seats, Republicans will want House Speaker Newt Gingrich to resolve impeachment proceedings quickly, with a censure, before the State of the Union Message in January. The Washington Post reported that Mr. Gingrich personally approved the last-minute commercials about the President's affair with Monica Lewinsky, and the Speaker is under enormous pressure to prove to Congressional Republicans that he has not overplayed their cards. 
 Although Democrats are tormented by turnout worries and intramural squabbles about how to finance their Congressional candidates, the party and Mr. Clinton's standing are not the shambles they might have been. Two and a half months ago, just after the President's grand jury appearance and his sullen television performance that evening, many Democratic lawmakers were hoping privately that he would resign to spare them what they feared would be a historic debacle at the polls in the fall. Now Mr. Clinton's approval ratings are as high as ever, and he scored political victories on the budget, the Middle East peace agreement and an apparent withdrawal of Serbian forces in Kosovo.
 Few speak any longer of a President unable to get things done at home or abroad. But the Democrats in Washington also know that there is little enthusiasm for this President, even among his supporters. Everyone remembers that in the 1974 election just after Watergate, the huge Democratic gains occurred less because of a swing among voters than a massive trend of Republican voters staying home. Moreover, the polls according Mr. Clinton high ratings for his job performance also show strong disapproval of his personal character. Except for New York and California, Mr. Clinton has been careful this campaign not to barnstorm the country for himself or the Democrats (though there have been plenty of fund-raisers). Ever the campaigner, Mr. Clinton is said to be chafing at his advisers' restrictions, but they believe the happy-warrior conduct would not be seen as consistent with his "journey of atonement."
The absence of a full debate about impeachment is not the only example of a detached and unsatisfying campaign, divorced from the issues. The candidates exchanged platitudes about abortion, gun control, adding teachers and enacting a patients' bill of rights. The next Congress will have to deal with nothing less than shoring up the global economy and devising a plan to save Social Security in the next generation, and to get to these issues, impeachment will have to be dealt with. The Republicans' own mixed feelings about engaging the issue on the campaign trail should tell them that the public wants the issue resolved. Similarly, Mr. Clinton's own bunkered existence should tell him that he should not try to tough it out, even if the Democrats perform respectably in the election. A move by Mr. Clinton to admit lying under oath, combined with a censure by Congress, is still the best way out of the Presidential crisis. Through the poll numbers, that seems to be what the voters are saying as well. As for Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gingrich, they will be looking at another set of numbers -- their parties' gains or losses in Congress -- to decide whether to go to war or sue for peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOSOVO (76%); MIDDLE EAST (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) WASHINGTON POST CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOSOVO (76%); MIDDLE EAST (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; IMPEACHMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS IMPEACHMENT (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); GRAND JURY (66%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



40 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Yawning in America;
Politicians Curse the Darkness as the Sun Shines

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN LINDER of Georgia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, perhaps said it best, and certainly most succinctly, when he was asked last week which issue was dominating the elections on Tuesday.
"Nothing," he said. 
 Yet the prevailing sense of a fat and happy -- and uninterested -- electorate clashes weirdly with the dire, often despairing, warnings from candidates that have marked this campaign season. With undiminished fervor, politicians have been loudly proclaiming one calamity after another, offering themselves as salvation from, take your pick: the health care crisis; the education crisis; the Social Security crisis; the moral crisis; the crisis in the environment; the crisis in international markets.
The upshot of this struggle to stir voters' souls seems to be that voters are less inclined to stir at all. Forecasts of a particularly paltry turnout this year may not stem simply from a lack of compelling issues, but from candidates flogging the notion of a sick nation at a time when voters seem to be saying that they and their country feel just fine.
Negative campaigning, the ubiquitous politics of personal attack. is one thing, and it has been well noted by pundits, pollsters and the like. But there is a different sort of negativity issuing from Federal, state and local campaigns, and it has been less remarked upon.
"Candidates of both parties have been going out of their way to manufacture crises where they just don't exist," said Dan Schnur, a strategist for the California Republican Party. "You can't convince people to be frightened when they know there isn't any reason to be."
Politicians appear to have learned well the modern politics of crisis -- from earlier hard economic times, the turmoil of the 1960's, the cold war, ideological struggles over the welfare state. But there is plenty of historical evidence to suggest that optimism trumps pessimism in American politics, from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan on down -- even to President Clinton, who won re-election in 1996 with a relatively upbeat campaign.
In 1980, voters were not roused by President Jimmy Carter's declaration of national malaise and his proclamation of energy problems so profound that they had tobe attacked with "the moral equivalent of war." They instead turned to Mr. Reagan, who assured them that America stood proud and strong.
 
Cheery Is Effective
Remember Mr. Reagan's re-election drive of 1984? In one commercial, lilting music played in the background. A bride and groom kissed softly at the altar. The sun shone on San Francisco Bay. "It's morning again in America," the announcer said cheerily. "And under the leadership of Ronald Reagan, our country is prouder and stronger and better. Why would we ever want to return to where we were less than four short years ago?"
Insisting that that was a fraudulent picture of America, Geraldine A. Ferraro, the Democratic nominee for Vice President, said in a debate with Vice President George Bush, "Things are not as great as the Administration is wanting us to believe in their television commercials." Voters chose optimism.
There is always a risk of a candidate appearing too sunny when, even in a time of relative prosperity, things are not perfect. President George Bush was defeated in 1992 in part because people thought he did not demonstrate enough concern about the recession.
But these days, 85 percent of Americans are satisfied with the way things are going in their personal lives, according to the Gallup Poll. And their satisfaction with the country in general is unmatched since the euphoria just after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 (before things turned sour for President Bush).
"The dawn is a lot brighter in '98 than it was in '84 for most folks," said Gary Jacobson, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego, comparing today to the heyday of the Reagan era. "It seems to me that's a message that would sell."
Still, many candidates cling to what they learned years ago in Politics 101: The way to get through to voters is to scare them. The problem is that while many people have concerns about this or that issue, they aren't scared. It is true, for instance, that education registers in polls as a big issue this year, but that is not because people are unusually up in arms about schools. It is, arguably, because voters cite education when they have nothing much else to complain about.
 
Not Riled Up
People surely want more out of their health care plans, but that does not mean they think there is a health care crisis. They may want more affordable child care but they do not necessarily think there is a child care crisis. They may be troubled by teen-agers joining gangs, but at a time of rapidly plunging crime rates they do not feel under siege.
In countless interviews around the country, ordinary voters who in previous election years bent visitors' ears with complaints about a pet issue mustered only a collective shrug when asked what most riled them this year. When the question was put to Gene Provost, a 66-year-old electronics technician in Moreno Valley, Calif., an independent, he replied, "Do you have any issues in particular?"
Worried, perhaps, that nuanced or tempered messages may not reach voters like Mr. Provost, candidates' messages verge on the apocalyptic.
In California, for example, the campaign of Gray Davis, the Democratic candidate for Governor, is warning that the Republican, Dan Lungren, would ban abortion, something no Governor has authority to do. "We don't need someone as Governor who would take us back to the days of back-alley abortion," radio listeners are told.
For its part, the Lungren campaign conjures up criminals running rampant in the streets with California under a Gray Administration. Mr. Davis's support of the death penalty notwithstanding, one commercial suggests that he would get rid of it: "Davis Lobbied Against the Death Penalty."
E. J. Dionne Jr., the author of "Why Americans Hate Politics" (Simon & Schuster, 1991), summed up the way candidates are turning off voters. "Politicians seem to spend so much time talking about the terrible things other people have done and the failure of various efforts to solve problems that they encourage a popular sense that government can't solve problems," he said. "It encourages a lot of people to think that politics is irrelevant."
It is true that challengers in particular would have a hard time convincing voters to oust incumbents by announcing that everything is rosy. But some of the most successful politicians this year have built huge leads with messages of hope. Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, is so far ahead in the polls that he can afford a gauzy commercial with the message, "Vote for the Pataki team because the best New York is yet to come."
In Maryland, Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, a Democrat, has such feeble opposition that this weekend her campaign put back on the air an uplifting commercial showing her wearing a kid-sized Baltimore Orioles baseball cap. "Unlike a lot of politicians, she doesn't have a big head," the narrator says. "She just does big things for the state she loves."
 
Nasty Competition
While such an optimistic pitch may carry broad appeal, it may be less effective than a message of crisis in more competitive races, where candidates are struggling to pull specific narrow constituencies to the polls.
"Their target is the people who make up their minds at the last minute and never think about politics unless they have to," Professor Jacobson said. "Maybe they still believe they have to get their attention with a two-by-four. What we see is a tactic that strikes us as excessive."
Of course, one problem unique to this campaign season is the distraction of the White House sex scandal, which has made it harder for candidates to get noticed and offered another opportunity to portray a nation in crisis, in this case a moral one.
Still, Michael Deaver, an architect of the "morning in America" campaign for Mr. Reagan, said he thought Democrats could do more to turn prosperity to their advantage. Noting that Democrats "are so defensive because of the scandal," he suggested that more uplifting messages could prove winners at a time when their leader is popular and controls the White House.
"Any party out of power should be talking about how bad it has been," he said. "But I don't know why the Democrats aren't saying we're better off than we've ever been."

GRAPHIC: Drawing: George Booth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (50%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTER BEHAVIOR; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TRENDS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); COLD WAR (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN LINDER (74%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



41 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: October 26-30
<HDL >Nearly Everything Came Up Roses

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Buoyed by a report on Friday that showed the economy growing at an altogether respectable annual rate of 3.3 percent in the third quarter, stocks closed out their best month in more than a decade and left many wondering if August and September really happened.
 For the month, the Dow was up 749.38, or 9.6 percent, the best advance since it climbed 13.8 percent in January 1987. 
 Gains were not confined to the Dow. Bolstered by strong earnings from a number of high-technology companies, the Nasdaq composite rose 4.5 percent last week; the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index and the Russell 2000 index of small companies also posted healthy gains. Stocks on a number of foreign markets were similarly euphoric, especially in Europe.
 Interest rates, which eased early in the week on signs of a slowing economy, jumped Friday after the Commerce Department released the third quarter growth figures. Still, most analysts remain convinced that the economy is slowing and that the Federal Reserve will continue to cut short-term interest rates.
 The dollar had a mixed week, falling a bit against the Japanese yen and inching higher against the German mark. KENNETH N. GILPIN

GRAPHIC: Graphs:
Ebay
NNM: EBAY
Ah, capitalism. The Inter-net auctioneer, which went public in September at $18 a share, reported stronger-than-expected earnings last week, and its chairman, Pierre M. Omidyar, became a paper billionaire.
 
Friday's Close: $83.125
Week'S Change: +66.83%
EST. '98 P/E: 554.17
 
Hershey Foods
NYSE: HSY
The chocolate and pasta maker slid for five ses-sions running on ratings cuts and a warning that higher costs could hurt fourth-quarter earnings. Bargain hunters stepped up and bought the shares on Friday.
 
Friday's Close: $67.8125
Week'S Change: -7.90%
EST. '98 P/E: 27.55
 
Merrill Lynch
NYSE: MER
Rising stocks made this a good week for stock brokerage firms. Merrill, the nation's biggest, was no exception. Since Oct. 8, Merrill's stock has risen 39 percent, but it is still far off its 52-week high of $109.125 on July 13.
 
Friday's Close: $59.00
Week'S Change: +6.67%
EST. '98 P/E: 15.68
 
Electronic Data Sys.
NYSE: EDS
Third-quarter profit fell 11 percent, and revenue from General Motors, its biggest customer, dipped 2 percent, raising con-cerns about the fourth quarter. The stock slid on Friday but still posted a nice gain for the week.
 
Friday's Close: $40.6875
Week'S Change: +5.34%
EST. '98 P/E: 24.28
 
Dell Computer
NNM: DELL
Two market research firms said Dell had the fastest growth among PC manufacturers in the third quarter, leading to upgrades by analysts. Later, Dell announced price cuts on home and small-business PC's.
 
Friday's Close: $65.50
Week'S Change: +12.45%
EST. '98 P/E: 62.80
 
Daisytek International
NNM: DZTK
The computer supplies distributor had a tough week: It cut growth fore-casts for the coming year to the mid-teens from more than 20 percent. And it said the outlook for the next two quarters was even gloomier.
 
Friday's Close: $15.0625
Week'S Change: -23.00%
EST. '98 P/E: 11.54
 
Wendy's International
NYSE: WEN
The No. 3 hamburger chain's third quarter earnings disappointed investors on Friday. Analysts said the results relied too much on gains from the sale of restaurants to franchisees.
 
Friday's Close: $21.00
Week'S Change: -9.43%
EST. '98 P/E: 18.32
 
America Online
NYSE: AOL
The No. 1 on-line service reported better-than-expected earnings, then further pleased investors by announcing a 2-for-1 stock split payable Nov. 17 to shareholders of record Nov. 2.
 
Friday's Close: $127.375
Week'S Change: +10.82%
EST. '98 P/E: 119.26
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FRANCHISEES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); GERMAN MARK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



42 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Directing More Dollars Toward Keeping Things Green

 BODY:
Market turmoil may be causing some companies to tighten their belts, but environmental spending appears to be escaping the cost-cutter's ax. A survey of corporate environmental managers found that American industrial companies planned to increase environmental spending next year by an average of 6 percent. The BTI Consulting Group, which does the survey annually, said it was the first time in seven years that industry planned to increase its environmental budget. BTI suggested that companies might feel they finally have other costs under control and are more comfortable budgeting for cleanup, and that many may be sprucing up properties and divisions that they hope to sell.
The economy grew at a faster-than-expected 3.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, damping fears that a recession is looming. Durable-goods orders rose 0.9 percent in September; analysts had expected a decline. But home resales fell last month, and consumer confidence sank to its lowest level in nearly two years. . . . Brazil laid out details of an $80 billion package of spending cuts and tax increases in a bid to stabilize its finances. . . . Southwest Airlines said it would put a toe in the nonstop transcontinental flight arena with an experimental pair of $99 flights between Oakland and Baltimore on Thanksgiving Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); BTI CONSULTING GROUP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BTI CONSULTING GROUP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; CORPORATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); AIRLINES (70%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



43 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES;
The Candidates' Views

 BODY:

Alfonse M. D'Amato
 
ABORTION -- Opposes legalized abortion, and voted for a constitutional amendment holding that life begins at conception. Has voted at times to allow exceptions to save a woman's life or in cases of rape or incest, but has also voted against such exceptions. Would restrict a type of late-term procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion.
 
CRIME -- Supports the death penalty and has voted for stricter mandatory sentencing in Federal crimes, particularly those in which guns are used. Has opposed gun control laws and voted against the 1994 crime bill and the assault weapons ban. Typically favors tougher punishments over spending on prevention programs.
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Consistently opposes tax increases, but has voted for budget bills that include some increases. Has proposed legislation to give middle-class homeowners a $500 property tax credit.
 
EDUCATION -- Supports merit pay raises for teachers and has proposed testing to gauge teachers' competence. Supports giving teachers and principals greater authority to remove violent and disruptive students.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Has proposed legislation that would require insurance companies to pay for reconstructive surgery for mastectomy patients and allow doctors to determine the length of a hospital stay after a mastectomy. Has voted to cut the rate of increase in Federal Medicare spending.
 
CIVIL RIGHTS -- Opposes affirmative action and racial quotas in hiring. Voted for an antidiscrimination bill for gay people and supported a policy allowing gay people to serve openly in the military.
 
ENVIRONMENT -- Has supported some major environmental bills, including reauthorization of the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts, but has also frequently supported legislation making it more difficult to enforce environmental regulations.
 
Charles E. Schumer
 
ABORTION -- Supports abortion rights and has voted against restrictions, including parental notification for teen-agers and mandatory 24-hour waiting periods. Also supports Medicaid financing for abortions for poor women. Opposes most restrictions on late-term abortions.
 
CRIME -- Supports the death penalty. Supports strict gun control laws and was the primary author of the 1994 crime bill and assault weapons ban. Favors preventive measures like drug treatment and youth programs. Has opposed some bills requiring stricter mandatory sentencing. Has voted for increased authority for use of wiretaps by investigators.
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Has voted in favor of increased taxes and Government spending. Has proposed a plan to boost New York's economy by cutting electricity rates, making pensions portable, offering tax credits to encourage home ownership in poor neighborhoods, reducing air fares upstate, cutting payroll taxes and using funds from any Government settlement with the tobacco industry to reduce property taxes.
 
EDUCATION -- Favors making all college tuition tax deductible. Opposes giving parents vouchers for private-school tuition. Has voted against cuts in Government spending on student loan programs and school lunches.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Supports stricter regulation of health maintenance organizations, including giving patients the right to sue over malpractice or the denial of necessary care. Has voted against proposals to cut the rate of Government spending on Medicare.
 
CIVIL RIGHTS -- Supports affirmative action, equal rights protections for gay people and benefits for domestic partners.
 
ENVIRONMENT -- Voted to strengthen the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act and the Marine Mammal Protection Act.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CLEAN AIR (68%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ABORTION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BLACKS; ENVIRONMENT ABORTION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); TUITION FEES (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MERIT PAY (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (71%); MEDICARE (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (70%); INSURANCE LAW (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); UTILITY RATES (70%); AIR QUALITY (69%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); MEDICAID (68%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (67%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); INSURANCE (66%); RACE & RACISM (65%); WIRETAPPING (60%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



44 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: IMMIGRANTS;
Once Divisive, Immigration Now a Muted Issue

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO 

 BODY:
It is the weekend before the elections, and immigration, the source of much national angst in years past, has disappeared from the election debate, although not from lawmakers' political agendas.
In the past year or so, while the nation has focused on the White House and Wall Street, Congress has quietly scaled back some provisions of several 1996 laws that were written to discourage immigration by cutting a range of benefits to legal residents and stepping up deportation efforts. 
 The moves, capped by pro-immigration provisions in this year's budget bill, signal lawmakers' awareness of the growing voting power of immigrants.
"A couple of years ago people were advocating to build a wall around the country," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who introduced several pro-immigration provisions in this year's spending bill. "That's no longer the case. Before, we had heard only one side of the immigration issue. Now, we get to talk about some of the positive contributions immigrants have made."
The immigration measures in the budget bill that President Clinton signed -- allowing almost 50,000 Haitian refugees to stay in the country, for example, and increasing the number of visas granted to foreign professionals -- would have been unthinkable four years ago, when anti-immigration themes dominated political campaigns nationally, or two years ago, when Congress passed what many consider the most anti-immigrant legislation in decades.
No one is suggesting that Congress is dismantling those laws, particularly the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Indeed, now that the Immigration and Naturalization Service is flush with money, most of the harsher measures of that law are being enforced.
Still, there seems to be a growing consensus among lawmakers that too much control of immigration is not good -- for politicians, who recognize that immigrants' votes could be pivotal in some races; for businesses and the economy, because valued employees have had to return home and prospective hires have not been granted visas, or even for the Government itself, since control is expensive and time consuming.
Those assumptions, coupled with good economic news, have led some anti-immigration members of Congress to take a cautious approach to immigration issues or ignore them.
"The Republicans are taking a wait-and-see attitude," said Representative Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who is pro-immigration. "They don't want to offend one side or alienate the other."
Among some lawmakers, especially those who advocate a hard line against immigrants, there is a sense that the laws of 1996 were so sweeping that very little more can be done or added to the debate. The budget for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, much of it dedicated to enforcement, now surpasses that of the F.B.I., and the agency has more employees than either the Department of State or Labor.
"The Clinton Administration took some major steps showing that it was serious in trying to control illegal immigration," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a law professor at Georgetown University and former general counsel and associate commissioner of the immigration service. "Some people are saying, 'We've dealt with the problem. We've done what we can. Let's move on.' "
But the issue of illegal immigration is far from resolved, Mr. Aleinikoff said. There are about five million such immigrants in the United States and no law that specifically addresses what to do with them.
Instead, lawmakers are sidestepping immigration in their campaigns, and have been passing legislation that benefits immigrants and, in some cases, reverses aspects of previous laws.
Congress has restored most of the welfare benefits it took away from legal immigrants in 1996. Lawmakers also restored some of the protections that Central American immigrants had lost, therefore sparing them from deportation. Congress granted amnesty to 150,000 Nicaraguans, 5,000 Cubans and 49,700 Haitians and allowed hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who hope to gain permanent visas to stay in the United States instead of having to go home to file their applications, as the 1996 law dictated.
Congress granted $171 million to the immigration agency to speed the naturalization process and, for the first time in years, it increased by 5,000 the number of refugees allowed into the country every year.
"The pendulum is definitely swinging our way," said Judith E. Golub, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association in Washington.
Advocates for immigrants as well as those who oppose immigration say the pendulum began to swing in favor of immigrants four years ago.
The re-election of California's Governor, Pete Wilson, who won in part by making his anti-immigration platform part of the national debate, was a signal to immigrants everywhere that unless they quickly became United States citizens, they too would feel the impact of measures like Proposition 187. The proposition is a California ballot initiative seeking to deny education, health and other benefits to illegal immigrants.
Many rushed to naturalize and thousands of new citizens were ready to vote in the 1996 races. The results caught the Republicans by surprise. In California a newcomer to politics, Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat, unseated the Republican incumbent, Representative Robert K. Dornan.
"Pete Wilson brought out the angry white male in California and used immigration as a hot-button issue to get re-elected," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum. "That brought out the angry new citizen in record numbers to vote and punish the Republican Party."
Shortly afterward, Republicans began to change their tune.
Speaker Newt Gingrich set the tone by pledging that his party would reach out to Hispanic people and members of other minorities. He hired an aide to oversee this effort and his office began releasing information translated into Spanish.
And now, running hard against Ms. Sanchez again, Mr. Dornan is calling himself a friend of Hispanic immigrants. In Texas, Gov. George W.Bush, a Republican popular with Hispanic immigrants who is seeking re-election, is spending more money to attract Hispanic voters than any other politician ever, his campaign advisers said.
Advocates for immigrants point to Senator Abraham's appointment as the chairman of the Senate subcommittee on immigration as a turning point. He replaced Senator Alan Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, who retired two years ago.
With Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican from Texas, Mr. Simpson was the architect of some of the more restrictive of the 1996 anti-immigration laws. Mr. Simpson did not return phone calls.
Mr. Smith, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, said in a statement: "The passage of a Haitian amnesty reflects year-end budget deal making and not any change of heart in Congress. There was little support in the House for amnesty because it will set a bad precedent and undermines longstanding immigration policy."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; CENTRAL AMERICA; UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPORTATION; CITIZENSHIP; ELECTION ISSUES IMMIGRATION (96%); LEGISLATION (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DEPORTATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEN); OJITO, MIRTA BILL CLINTON (78%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



45 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Building Boom at Institutes of Health

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md., Oct. 31

 BODY:
The National Institutes of Health used to feel like a bucolic college campus. Now it is a giant construction project, with cranes and bulldozers erecting new laboratories, a new research hospital and a new center for vaccine research.
The activity here is the tangible symbol of a huge new Federal investment in biomedical research. Congress is providing far more money than President Clinton requested because Congressional leaders of both parties have vowed to double the agency's budget over five years -- a process that began with the 1999 appropriations bill, which just became law. 
 The institutes have always enjoyed respect on Capitol Hill. But lawmakers said they had increased the agency's budget more than usual because they believed that researchers were poised on the threshold of a new era. Discoveries in many fields -- especially genetics, neuroscience and cell biology -- promise to save lives and transform the practice of medicine in the next decade, they said.
Congress provided $15.6 billion for the 1999 fiscal year, which began on Oct. 1, up from $13.6 billion in the prior year -- an increase of $2 billion, or 15 percent. That rate of increase, sustained and compounded over five years, would double the institutes' budget by the year 2003.
The 322-acre campus of the institutes is a beehive of activity as construction crews reroute traffic, tear down trees, build new roads and excavate a maze of underground tunnels to deliver steam, water and electricity to all the buildings on the site.
But scientists here receive just 10 percent of the agency's budget. The rest is distributed to universities, medical schools, teaching hospitals and private nonprofit research institutes. Most of the money goes for basic research, to investigate fundamental properties of genes and cells, or to test new methods of treating diseases and disabling conditions. Among the priorities recommended by Congress are mapping the human genome, preventing Alzheimer's disease and finding better ways to detect ovarian cancer.
Congress also provided $30 million this year for renovation and construction of biomedical research laboratories around the country. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the ranking Democrat on the appropriations subcommittee responsible for the National Institutes of Health, said he would seek much bigger increases for such construction spending in the next couple of years. He is likely to find allies among Republicans, including Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who is chairman of that subcommittee.
Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said: "The $2 billion increase for N.I.H. is simply breathtaking. It's extraordinary, the single largest dollar increase in N.I.H. history."
In his budget request in February, President Clinton sought a more modest increase, $1.14 billion, or 8.4 percent, which would have been financed through an increase in tobacco taxes. But Congress never approved the tobacco proposals.
A Congressional aide who works on the institutes' budget said the big increase this year resulted mainly from lobbying by public health groups and advocates concerned about specific diseases like breast cancer, AIDS, diabetes and Alzheimer's. These groups work closely with scientists and medical schools in lobbying Congress.
"N.I.H. stood on the sidelines," said the Congressional aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "N.I.H. didn't lobby hard for this."
In an interview this week, Dr. Harold E. Varmus, director of the National Institutes of Health, said: "I'm a team player. We are part of the Administration, and we supported the President's budget request. We don't have to advocate. We have advocates, very strong advocates, in the disease groups and professional organizations."
In the last two years, the institutes' budget grew an average of 7 percent a year, and with that money the agency was able to prepare for the construction now under way.
President Clinton is directly responsible for one project, the five-story vaccine research center, being built at a cost of $29 million. In a speech at Morgan State University in Baltimore in May 1997, Mr. Clinton declared a national goal of developing an AIDS vaccine within 10 years. Much of the work to achieve that goal will take place at the center. Researchers there will also work on vaccines for other diseases like malaria and tuberculosis.
Dr. Varmus, who won a Nobel Prize in 1989 for his research on cancer-causing genes, said he was pleased that Congress had generally resisted the temptation to earmark money for specific research projects at specific universities.
The windfall of money comes just as the agency is trying to give patients and ordinary citizens a bigger voice in setting research priorities. The National Academy of Sciences gently chided the agency this summer, saying it had not sought enough public comment on these important decisions. Dr. Varmus said he was searching for ways to "enhance public participation in N.I.H. activities," as the Academy recommended.
While Congress did not dictate precisely how money should be spent in the new appropriations law, it did offer advice in a report that accompanied the legislation. Over the years, officials of the institutes have won the trust of lawmakers by closely following such recommendations whenever they could.
This year, for example, Congress urged the institutes to support more research on progressive supranuclear palsy, a disabling condition similar to Parkinson's disease; Behcet's syndrome, a rare chronic inflammatory disorder, and brittle bone disease, an inherited condition that leaves patients susceptible to fractures throughout their lives.
The Senate Appropriations Committee initially earmarked $175 million for prostate cancer research, a cause of great interest to the committee chairman, Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, who had surgery for prostate cancer in 1991. House and Senate negotiators dropped the explicit mandate. But their conference report says, "N.I.H. is strongly urged to make prostate cancer a top priority" and to "accelerate spending" on the disease.
Congress also urged the institutes to begin "a full-scale initiative" to find ways of preventing Alzheimer's in people who, because of their family history or other factors, are likely to develop the illness.
Over the objections of some Government scientists, Congress this year upgraded the status and authority of a small unit at the institutes that studies alternative medicine, including acupuncture, chiropractic care and homeopathic remedies. It also urged Dr. Varmus to step up research on dietary supplements, including the possible value of chromium in fighting diabetes, and it said he should establish several new centers to highlight the benefits of "mind/body medicine."
When Republicans took control of Congress in 1995, they skeptically scrutinized the institutes' budget and told scientists to expect substantial cuts, as part of the Republican effort to balance the Federal budget. But Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republicans have become strong supporters of the agency, in part because they see it as an engine of economic growth. Moreover, they say, research financed by the institutes is extremely important to plant genetics and promises to increase the productivity of seeds and agriculture.
Carl B. Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group, welcomed the big increase in the agency's budget. He said many biotech companies had licensing arrangements that allowed them to develop prescription drug products using scientific discoveries made by the institutes and its grantees. The companies pay royalties to the Government or the universities where the discoveries were made.
"This is a partnership between Government and industry that really works," Mr. Feldbaum said. "It's the envy of many other nations, to be able to take basic research and turn it into therapies and cures."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once a bucolic campus, the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., is now a hub of construction activity, a symbol of the Federal Government's new investment in biomedical research. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); RESEARCH CONSTRUCTION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); GENOMICS (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CANCER (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); VACCINES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (68%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (62%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (88%); ARLEN SPECTER (56%); TOM HARKIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



46 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
If There Is Drama, Jordan Is in Middle

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
At what moment the season had a decent chance of being salvaged, no one can be sure. But when word got out that a stretch black limousine parked outside a Manhattan law firm late Wednesday night was idling until 1 A.M. for Michael Jordan, any wild scenario seemed possible.
Jordan could not merely be negotiating and trying to help end the National Basketball Association's labor dispute by perusing through proposals. That was too reasonable. He had to be going one-one-one with another boardroom superstar, looking David Stern in the eye for everything in the $2 billion kitty. 
 Given Jordan's affinity for drama, he had most likely engaged the N.B.A. commissioner in a heart-to-heart chat about how much the game means to both of them. Remembering that he never comes to New York to lose, Jordan would then come out of an eight-hour bargaining session having rescued the game from greed. Maybe he would even commit to playing one more season with Scottie.
Because not all of what he does is out of this world, it did not happen that way. The game's greatest player emerged with a half-smile and said both sides had some great dialogue even though they were still far apart from a deal.
But his presence in the labor war between the owners and the players is enough to raise speculation that Jordan wants to play again, and maybe that is enough for imagination to overcome reason.
He says he is doing his union duty, like Oscar Robertson and Julius Erving before him. Yet, you get the sense Jordan also misses the N.B.A. spectacle -- that if all the league's best players were in New York last week and he was not there, something was amiss. By association, he misses basketball.
"I think when we get this thing settled, we can expect Michael to come back," Billy Hunter, the union executive director, said last week. "Michael hasn't said that, but I'm prepared to predict it."
John Stockton said it the night Jordan shot down the Utah Jazz in June for Chicago's sixth world championship, imploring everyone who got caught up in the Goodbye Michael hyperbole to stop the nonsense.
"I don't want to hear another thing about Michael not coming back," Stockton said. "He'll be back. He knows it."
It is not a done deal. With so much uncertainty surrounding the Bulls -- whether Scottie Pippen and the supporting cast will all sign and how to find a replacement for the likely to be departing Dennis Rodman, a free agent, are key -- who knows what Jordan is thinking?
"I think he wants to play," said David Falk, his agent. "But it's the equivalent of someone being offered employment and not knowing anything about the work. If you were to tell someone about a job in which they weren't sure of what their salary might be, weren't sure where they would be working and weren't sure who they would be working with, would that person accept employment under those conditions? Right now, there are too many uncertainties for him to make his decision."
Clarity may come sooner than later. The first step is figuring out an economic system that will run into the next millennium. Whatever deal is struck -- both sides are expected to meet this week in Manhattan amid hope that an agreement in principle can be resolved by the following week -- will include grandfather clauses to enable Jordan to play for almost any amount he chooses.
The next step will involve either the rebuilding or the reloading of the Bulls. If Jordan does not think Chicago has a shot at winning a title with whatever cast General Manager Jerry Krause puts together, he may decide a second-round playoff exit is not worth the anguish.
Whatever the case, each game lost this season is, by association, another game stricken from Jordan's scintillating career. "Put it this way, this could not have come at a worse time than in a year when Michael is considering retirement," Falk said.
That fact alone cannot be lost on negotiations between both sides. NBC's new contract with the N.B.A. is scheduled to begin with the Knicks and Bulls on Christmas Day.
"Michael deciding to play again would be an enormous topping on the cake, but there are 400 other players who aren't earning their $1 billion-plus in salaries and owners who are not seeing ticket revenue," Stern said. "So if we could tie up the package in a bow, well, that would be nice."
Patrick Ewing, the union president, asked Jordan to take a more proactive role in negotiations last week. Putting his on-court rivalry with Jordan aside, Ewing essentially enlisted the help of the man who has had more to do with keeping him from a championship in New York than perhaps anyone.
Ewing, the guy who has done the grunt work for months with Hunter, gave back the stage again.
"I didn't want to be in the forefront," Jordan said before he sped away in his limousine down a rainy street. "They wanted me to."
Jordan may not have been any more instrumental in trying to hash out a deal than the next player. But something about him sitting in a conference room late Wednesday night with the future of the league at stake seems good and right.
Kind of like his coming back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Jordan is making his presence known in labor wars. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (93%); LOCKOUTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; JORDAN, MICHAEL MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



47 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Check Offered To Resolve Jones Lawsuit

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Abe Hirschfeld, who injected himself into the Paula Corbin Jones lawsuit, withdrew and then re-entered the picture today before television cameras here, where he made a symbolic presentation to Ms. Jones of a $1 million check as an incentive to help settle her sexual harassment lawsuit against President Clinton.
But lawyers for both sides said today's event was not expected to have any impact because Mr. Hirschfeld's check, made out to Ms. Jones and her lawyers, may be cashed only if both sides agree to settle the lawsuit. Lawyers for both parties said they had not had any recent discussions. 
 Mr. Hirschfeld told reporters during the check-passing ceremony that "I only care that the market should go up, the people should be working and the economy should be singing."
White House officials have saidthey do not want to have anything to do with Mr. Hirschfeld, the New York City real estate magnate, political candidate and, briefly, the owner of the New York Post.
Mr. Hirschfeld remains under indictment for tax fraud in Manhattan, White House officials said. In addition, if his money was used to settle the lawsuit, it would raise the question of whether the money would be considered as benefiting Mr. Clinton, in which case the President would be required to pay taxes.
Lawyers for Ms. Jones and President Clinton were close to settling the lawsuit earlier this month. Ms. Jones had demanded a $1 million payment from Mr. Clinton and the White House had offered $700,000.
But with Mr. Hirschfeld's offer, Ms. Jones saw a way to put together a large package; she then asked for $1 million from Mr. Clinton in addition to the Hirschfeld contribution, for a total of $2 million.
The White House quickly rejected the proposal. As a result of the breakdown in negotiations, both sides went ahead with arguments earlier this month in St. Paul before a panel of appeals court judges over whether the lawsuit should be reinstated.
A Federal trial judge dismissed the lawsuit by Ms. Jones in April, saying that her account of being propositioned by Mr. Clinton in a Little Rock hotel room in 1991 did not amount to a legal case of sexual harassment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); JUDGES (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAX FRAUD (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (68%); INDICTMENTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HIRSCHFELD, ABE; JONES, PAULA CORBIN; LEWIS, NEIL A BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



48 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-21
 
Iraq Suspends Cooperation With U.N. Arms Inspectors
Iraq said it was suspending all cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors and would also close down their long-term monitoring operations immediately, effectively ending almost all surveillance of their weapons programs. Iraq's U.N. representative added that he now expected more than 100 arms inspectors and scientific experts to leave. The move posed the most serious challenge to United States policy on Iraq in more than a year of intermittent crises. 1
 
China Eases on Family Planning
China's family planning system has quietly started urging its workers to soften their approach, hoping to improve its often tense relationship with Chinese women. While the goal still remains to control the country's population growth, officials say they hope to achieve that end through patient education, contraceptive choice and heavy taxes for couples who choose to have an additional child. 1 

Russia Approves Recovery Plan
The Russian Government approved the first draft of a recovery plan that calls for more public spending and tighter control of the economy, seven weeks after the Government took office in the midst of a deepening financial crisis. The preliminary document calls for greater support for domestic industry, more vigorous tax collection and a pledge to pay pensions and government salaries on time. It has already been dismissed by a visiting team from the International Monetary Fund. 10
 
U.N. Sets Age Requirements
The United Nations set new minimum age limits for troops and police trainers, looking for greater maturity and experience in the soldiers sent into peacekeeping operations. 16
 
NATIONAL 22-36
 
Final and Frantic Round Of the Midterm Election
A midterm election in search of a moral drove toward a close in a final, frantic round of television advertisements, get-out-the-vote efforts and coast-to-coast partisan bickering over everything from President Clinton's character to health care and the safety of Social Security for his baby-boom generation. 1
 
A President's Fate
The candidates may be waging their final campaign appeals over education, Social Security and tax cuts. But the ultimate stake in Tuesday's midterm election is the issue most Congressional candidates have been trying not to mention: the fate of President Clinton in the face of threatened impeachment. A news analysis. 30
 
Not the Year of Challengers
This year's House races, more than any in recent memory, are populated with challengers woefully outspent and far behind. The fund-raising gap between incumbents and challengers has grown to almost ridiculous proportions. Of the 435 House races, 260 incumbents, or nearly 60 percent, have a 10 to 1 advantage in money. 30
 
Hoffa at the Goal Line
"We're first and goal to go, and we're ready to score," says James P. Hoffa Jr., who, as the favorite in the race for the teamsters presidency, may soon achieve his life's ambition, taking the helm of the union that his famous father once headed. With ballots being mailed tomorrow to the union's 1.4 million members, Mr. Hoffa is on the final leg of a feverish campaign that could make him one of the nation's most prominent and powerful union leaders. 22
 
NEW YORK/REGION 37-45

Domestic Abuse by Officers Rarely Results in Dismissal
Domestic abuse complaints against New York City police officers are rising sharply. A review of department records shows that officers found guilty of abuse in administrative proceedings are rarely dismissed and that some are punished with suspensions of just 15 days -- the same penalty given to officers caught sleeping on the job. 1
 
Final Weekend in Senate Race
With a bus trip across upstate New York and a visit to a bustling kosher delicatessen on Manhattan's Lower East Side, Representative Charles E. Schumer and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato wrestled through the final weekend of their campaign yesterday, closing down a contest notable for its absence of discussion on policy differences between them. 1
 
Home's Patients Are Scattered
When the city suddenly closed the Neponsit Health Care Center in Queens last month the residents were scattered throughout the health care system, and 53 are still waiting for permanent homes. Two have since died, and one is missing. 37
 
OBITUARIES 47
 
Adm. John Joseph Hyland Jr.
A veteran test pilot and champion of naval air power who commanded the American armada off Indochina during the Vietnam War, he was 86. 47
 
Christopher Gable
An English ballet star who made an unusually successful transition to film and theater, he was 58. 47
 
Francis X. Larkin
The former president of Fieldcrest Mills Inc., a leader in home-furnishing textiles, he was 71. 47
 
Chess 45
 
Weather 45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (65%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (65%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (65%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (65%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (65%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (65%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



49 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: King Hussein Ails. His Brother Waits.

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Oct. 29

 BODY:
When King Hussein of Jordan appeared at the White House to place his personal seal on the Palestinian-Israeli agreement last week, it was a moment of pathos and pride for many of his distant people: his presence magnified his prestige as a peacemaker; his appearance, made spectral by chemotherapy, drove home to many for the first time just how severely cancer has stricken him.
Back home, the King's illness has inspired those around him -- from his brother, Crown Prince Hassan, to the loyalists who make up the Government -- to concentrate their efforts on one task: promoting the idea that transition, when it does come to this strategically placed land, will be as seamless as the King intended since anointing his younger brother as his successor more than three decades ago. 
 Indeed, in a rare interview, His Royal Highness el-Hassan bin Talal, heir to the Hashemite throne and 42d-generation descendant of Mohammed, seemed at pains to say that no one could accuse him of being unprepared after 33 years as his brother's closest confidant, understudy and frequent stand-in.
"I think it would be fair if people were to make a study of three decades of public life, where we have complemented each other in rather a remarkable manner," he said in the interview, which took place at the Royal Palace. He used the occasion to speak of his close relationship with his brother, of his aspirations for regional peace and of his irritation with those who criticize his manner as overly erudite and intellectual.
"With the King's absence," said Prof. Radwan Abdallah, a political scientist at Amman University, "the stress is on assuring everybody that succession -- if it comes to succession -- will be a smooth process."
Never before has the 51-year-old Crown Prince acted as the King's replacement for as long as he has this time. Three and a half months ago, the King went to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., to begin chemotherapy for lymphoma -- his second brush with cancer in five years. Since then the Crown Prince has been working the trans-Atlantic phones talking with his brother, and pursuing his contacts with compatriots, in an obvious effort to show his mettle as a ruler.
The stability of this small country has direct consequences for all of its neighbors, from Israel to Iraq. And then there are the United States policy makers who called the King to the negotiations at the Wye Plantation in Maryland last week in the final fraught days before the Palestinian-Israeli agreement.
And so, among the King's loyalists -- and some diplomats -- there is a clear desire to promote the notion that with the outcome of the King's medical treatment far from clear, the Crown Prince has already passed some kind of unstated initial test.
"When you are talking about the Crown Prince today," said Nasser Judeh, the Information Minister, who is also the Crown Prince's son-in-law, "you are talking about a serious junior partner to the King who has been around, trained for the job, for 33 years. Will Jordan survive? Will Jordan weather this storm? They said that in 1921 when the emirate was formed. Seventy-seven years later we are still around."
And, said a knowledgeable Western official, "not to underestimate the enormous challenges, the Crown Prince has demonstrated that he's well grounded, he's capable of working with the key players and governing effectively."
But how does the Crown Prince feel about those who say he lacks the King's stature and charisma, is less qualified to exert his writ over a land known more for the perils of war and peace than for easy management?
How does he feel about those who see him as simply an erudite adjunct to the King, more at ease with highbrow economic manuals than the Bedouin tribes and restive Palestinian majority that mark his land of four million?
"How do you define profile?" he mused. "We are two different people, and that's something that should be understood in the best possible sense. We believe in respecting each other's views." It is true, he said, that the King -- who has ruled for 45 years -- is "the symbol to the people" while the Crown Prince has been "closer to the kitchen" of everyday business.
But, he went on, "I don't know why people refer to me as rather more cerebral, intellectual. If being cerebral means I have contracted some kind of malady that makes me unfit for shouldering public responsibility," he concluded, "all I can say is . . ." and then uttered a profanity.
Perhaps it was calculated to show an earthiness not usually associated with him. But it was delivered with the kind of plummy heartiness that makes the Crown Prince -- whether in his dark business suit or on his polo pony -- seem more a product of his aristocratic British upbringing at Harrow School and Oxford University than the treacherous shoals of regional politics charted by his elder brother.
Conversations with Jordanians, Palestinians and diplomats of other nations reveal the Crown Prince as a more modest, less flamboyant figure than the King, a family man with a lower tolerance for corruption than his brother. "Transparency and accountability in the longer term are essential," he said in the interview.
Despite much talk of palace intrigue between princes from the King's and the Crown Prince's lines of succession, the King has not publicly wavered in his commitment to his brother as his heir and, thus, as the future custodian of the Hashemite line, which dates back to 1201. Emblems of a more modern claim on legitimacy, the banners of both the Jordanian state and the 1916 Arab revolt against the Ottomans, which was led by his great-grandfather, flank the Crown Prince's desk.
Indeed, the key to Jordan's stability lies in the way the Hashemite dynasty balances not just regional pressures, but also domestic strains. In Jordanian society -- where power has always rested on a latticework of connections to tribes and powerful families -- Palestinians outnumber Jordanians by more than two to one, and many Palestinians say they mistrust the Crown Prince.
"The monarchy is much more than the person of the King," said Professor Abdallah of Amman University. "It is an institution, and it plays a vital role in our society. It is the role of moderator, of conciliator, of arbiter, holder of the balance. The need for this role is there."
But here, too, there are differences of style between the King and his brother. "The King uses the carrot first, then the stick," said Bassam Saket, head of Jordan's Securities Exchange Commission and a former economic adviser at the Royal Court. "The Crown Prince uses the stick, then the carrot. But neither hits very hard."
Beyond such protestations of benevolence, though, is a powerful domestic security network largely controlled by loyalist Jordanians closer to the King than to his brother. Indeed, throughout his regency, Crown Prince Hassan has been in close touch with the King, who is still seen as the real power as his land confronts crises on virtually every front.
Since the 1990 gulf war, Jordan's economy has been in a mess. It lost its biggest market in Iraq, but secured none of the economic benefits that King Hussein sought with his 1994 peace with Israel. The peace is unpopular among many Jordanians. And a perilous economic gap has widened, further isolating a rich coterie of well-connected families from the grinding poverty of the majority.
The vista is no more cheerful along Jordan's frontiers. Syria and Iraq are both uneasy and potentially meddlesome neighbors, while the gulf Arab states that once supported Jordan financially still have not forgiven the King for siding with Saddam Hussein in the gulf war. After the Wye interim agreements, any future Palestinian-Israeli maneuvers toward a final settlement offer another minefield for Jordan, which is home to a staggering 1.4 million registered Palestinian refugees.
And yet the Crown Prince, like the King, vouchsafes a continued commitment to peace.
"You have to say -- let's go back to the 1930's and say, have the Arabs done better by turning down every offer?" the Crown Prince said. "I would think that taking what's on offer in 1998, lighting a candle, is surely better than continuing to curse the darkness."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Crown Prince Hassan, interviewed in the Royal Court, stressed that leadership transition in strategic Jordan should not present problems, since he has been preparing to fill his brother Hussein's shoes for three decades. (Bill Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7352 MEDICAL EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (50%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (95%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: KING'S MEDICAL CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JORDAN; MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN (95%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CANCER (89%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LYMPHOMA (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); POLITICS (63%); 

PERSON: HASSAN (CROWN PRINCE); HUSSEIN I, KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN; COWELL, ALAN TZIPORA LIVNI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



50 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Despite Bluster, Qaddafi Weighs Deal for 2 Bombing Suspects

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: TRIPOLI, Libya

 BODY:
Outwardly at least, nearly everything on display in Libya these days seems calculated to project defiance.
Posters plastered on downtown streets mock six years of United Nations sanctions, hailing as heroes African leaders who have flown to Libya in violation of an international ban on air travel here. 
 The new backdrop for state television broadcasts is now a map of Africa, not the Arab world, a slap at Arab neighbors accused of being too timid to join Libya's quest to get the sanctions lifted.
A sign affixed to the seaside Grand Hotel captures the spirit exactly, if ungrammatically. "Hand's Off Libya!" it declares.
And yet, behind this stubborn facade, there are indications that the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, might at last be close to accepting a compromise that could bring an end to his country's isolation, imposed for its failure to hand over two suspects wanted in the bombing of Pam Am Flight 103 over the tiny Scottish village of Lockerbie in 1988, in which 270 were killed.
Although he has sent mixed signals about it, Colonel Qaddafi may be carefully weighing a deal, proposed in August by the United States and Britain, that would require Libya to surrender the two suspects for a trial in the Netherlands.
Libya has agreed to the offer in principle, after many years of refusing to hand the suspects over for trial in Britain or the United States. But it is insisting on certain guarantees, including a promise that the suspects would serve their sentences in the Netherlands or Libya if convicted.
Still, Tripoli-based diplomats say they believe that Colonel Qaddafi is sincere in wanting to go forward with the arrangement, in part because many ordinary Libyans have begun to get fed up with the United Nations penalties.
"I'm quite sure that the Libyans want to solve the problem," a Western ambassador here said. "Perhaps at the beginning, the embargo didn't make things too hard for the regime. But over time, I think, it's becoming harder and harder."
The United Nations sanctions ban only international flights to and from Libya and the sale of arms and certain other restricted goods. Other trade, including oil, moves freely between Libya and other countries by road and sea.
If Libya does not agree to the American-British proposal, the Security Council has warned that it will consider tightening sanctions further, with measures that could include a ban on Libya's sales of oil. But because backing even for the current measures is clearly withering not only in Africa but in other countries around the world, it is far from clear that the Security Council could make good on that threat. That raises the possibility that even with discomfort at home, Colonel Qaddafi may ultimately conclude that his best option is to wait the crisis out.
For now, though, one clear indication that Libya is acting in earnest, diplomats say, is the Government's dismissal in September of a lawyer, Ibrahim Legwell, who for seven years headed the suspects' defense team. Mr. Legwell had criticized the American-British proposal as inadequate, and in an interview in his offices here, he said that the fact that he had been replaced reflected a desire for greater flexibility. "It seems that the Government doesn't like somebody who says no," he said.
A new team of lawyers, headed by Kamel al-Makhour, traveled to New York in October to discuss with United Nations legal officials the arrangements for a possible trial. And in their first televised appearance in four years, the two Libyans accused of carrying out the bombing told the London-based Arabic-language satellite channel MBC in October that they were ready to stand trial if their safety was guaranteed.
In an interview published on Oct. 18 in the Sunday Times of London, Colonel Qaddafi was quoted as saying that he wanted to see an end to confrontation with the West over the Lockerbie case. "Our people want peace," he said. "They want to be friends."
In another interview, broadcast on Oct. 22 on the BBC, the Libyan leader distanced himself from whoever might have carried out the 1988 bombing, saying that the bombers might have been taking "their own revenge" against the United States for its 1986 air and missile raid on Libya.
At issue is the fate of the two suspects, Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, who the United States and Britain have said were Libyan intelligence agents. The two were indicted in 1991 after an investigation concluded that they had carried out the bombing by planting an explosive in a suitcase.
Their former lawyer, Mr. Legwell, said that the two men had spent the last six years "not in custody exactly" but without passports and suspended -- albeit with pay -- from their jobs with Libyan Arab Airways.
After Libya refused to extradite the two, Britain and the United States successfully pushed for the United Nations sanctions, which were imposed in 1992 and include a ban on arms sales and all international flights. But those measures have failed to persuade Colonel Qaddafi to hand over the suspects and, in the meantime, international support for the sanctions has withered in some quarters.
Colonel Qaddafi himself has violated the flight ban on several occasions, but the United Nations has responded with little more than a scolding. And in the last two months, several African leaders -- including the heads of state of Niger, Chad, Mali, the Central African Republic, Eritrea, Gambia and Uganda -- have defiantly traveled to Libya by plane, acts that were officially condoned by the Organization of African Unity.
The 22-member Arab League has been less daring, trying to serve as an intermediary in discussions with Britain and the United States, but choosing at a meeting last month not to flout the sanctions. It was that decision that infuriated Colonel Qaddafi, who during his 29 years in power has always been an ardent proponent of Arab unity.
Within a matter of days, the Libyan leader pronounced that "the Arab world is finished," the map of the Arab world was removed from state television and the Government announced that it had eliminated its Ministry of Arab Unity. This week, it even advised the Arab League that it had decided to downgrade its "permanent" status at the organization to that of a "resident delegation."
In interviews here, Arab and Western diplomats acknowledged that such pique underscored an unpredictability that made it impossible to know whether Colonel Qaddafi would ultimately accept the American-British plan. But they said they believed that Colonel Qaddafi had been genuinely surprised by the offer, extended on Aug. 24.
Although the plan is essentially the same one Colonel Qaddafi himselflong proposed, the Libyan leader initially dismissed it as one bound to be ridden with tricks. It calls for the two suspects to be tried in the Netherlands by Scottish judges under Scottish law and promises the United Nations sanctions will be lifted as soon as the suspects are surrendered.
The United States has described the offer as nonnegotiable. But the Libyan leader has raised many questions, including how the appeals would be handled, where the suspects would be imprisoned if convicted and how their rights would be protected.
Diplomats say they believe that Colonel Qaddafi is plainly concerned that the two men will be used by prosecutors to make a case against Libya itself, which some in the West believe had a hand in the bombing.
Still, they say, any Libyan reluctance to accept the deal is almost certainly counterbalanced by worries that a refusal might well prompt the United Nations to make good on a threat to tighten the sanctions, which Libyans see as less and less tolerable.
One Libyan Government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, conceded in an interview that if Libyans were asked their frank opinion, the vast majority would say that the suspects should be surrendered to bring an end to sanctions.
While the sanctions do not bar Libya from selling oil, which provides 95 percent of its export earnings, they have made life uncomfortable.
Sales of arms and certain other goods, including airplane parts, are prohibited, and domestic air service within Libya -- with a territory larger than Alaska -- has ground nearly to a halt.
And since international air travel is also banned, Libyans who want to travel abroad must begin their journey either by ferry, on an overloaded vessel that makes an overnight crossing from Tripoli to the Mediterranean island of Malta, or with an arduous overland journey across the border into Egypt or Tunisia.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Col Muammar el-Qaddafi may be considering a deal requiring Libya to surrender Abdel Basset al-Megrahi, left, and Lamin Khalifah Fhimah. (Reuters)
 
Map of Libya showing the location of Tripoli: In Tripoli, there is an outward show of defiance for sanctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GHG (ASX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) AND MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (87%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC GRAND HOTEL GROUP (57%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYA; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND); GREAT BRITAIN; NETHERLANDS; SCOTLAND; LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); NETHERLANDS (87%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EXTRADITION EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); CITIES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); SENTENCING (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); ARMS TRADE (66%); 

PERSON: QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL); JEHL, DOUGLAS; FHIMAH, LAMIN KHALIFAH; MEGRAHI, ABDEL BASSET AL- IBRAHIM LEGWELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



51 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: In New Challenge to the U.N., Iraq Halts Arms Monitoring

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In its most serious challenge to the United Nations in more than a year of intermittent crises, Iraq said today that it was ending all cooperation with international arms inspectors and would close their long-term monitoring operations immediately.
The action, announced in Baghdad after a meeting of President Saddam Hussein and his top advisers, goes beyond even the Iraqi ban on spot inspections imposed since August and in effect bars almost all surveillance of Iraq's weapons programs. 
 Iraq's representative at the United Nations, Nizar Hamdoon, added in an interview with reporters today that Baghdad assumed that the arms inspectors would now leave Iraq. There are more than 100 inspectors and scientific experts with their support staff in the country.
"They'll have to be pulled out," Mr. Hamdoon said. "That's implied in the statement." He said inspectors would have no further access to any monitoring sites. Several United Nations officials and diplomats said Iraq seemed to be trying to force inspectors to leave on their own, stopping short of expelling them.
The Security Council later unanimously condemned the Iraqi decision, describing it as a "flagrant violation" of Council resolutions and the agreement on access reached in February with Secretary General Kofi Annan.
The Council said in its statement that Iraq must rescind its decision and "resume immediate, complete and unconditional cooperation."
In Washington, President Clinton called a meeting of the National Security Council. Afterward, David C. Leavy, a spokesman for the council, said security advisers were "reviewing all options with the President."
"Iraq's action cannot be tolerated," he said.
Underscoring the seriousness with which the Administration views the Iraqi action, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen postponed a tour of Asia today, announcing during a refueling stop on Wake Island in the Pacific that he would return to Washington to take part in deliberations instead of continuing to Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong.
Mr. Annan's special envoy to Iraq, Prakash Shah, was on his way back to Baghdad tonight to assess the situation, diplomats said. In New York, Charles Duelfer, deputy executive chairman of the commission formed to disarm Iraq, said the inspectors would stay where they are.
"We've got our full complement of staff," Mr. Duelfer told reporters. "We're prepared to do the work that we would like to finish there, and our people are in place."
Peter Burleigh, the United States delegate, who takes over on Sunday as the Security Council president for November, called the Iraqi move "a very serious development" as he and Britain's representative, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, arrived for the hastily summoned Council meeting.
Iraq said it had decided to stop all inspections in response to a Security Council decision on Friday to reject its demands that a proposed "comprehensive review" of its relations with the United Nations should more or less automatically lead to a lifting of sanctions.
"We expected more support in the Security Council," Mr. Hamdoon said. He described as especially regrettable pre-emptive American comments that the broad assessment of its position sought by Iraq was not a route to ending the embargo, a step that could only come later through a regular sanctions review.
Iraq's friends on the Council have not been outspoken on Baghdad's behalf. France, which has been supportive of Iraq, said in Paris this morning that it "deeply deplores" the decision and called on Baghdad to resume cooperation immediately.
"Nobody was making excuses for Iraq today," a Western diplomat said after the Council meeting.
The headquarters of the United Nations operations in Iraq is a high-technology hub constructed in a former hotel school at the edge of Baghdad. There, experts view film from remote video cameras trained on Iraqi factories and other production and storage sites, and scientists analyze a battery of air, water and soil sensors and samplers.
The monitoring operations were set up in Iraq in the years after the end of the Persian Gulf war in 1991 and were intended to remain in place even after a lifting of sanctions.
The Iraqi announcement today indicated that those surveillance tools would be rendered largely useless if inspectors would not be able to maintain, service or, for the first time, even operate them.
The initial Iraqi announcement said that only the International Atomic Energy Agency would be allowed to operate in Iraq, and only in nonintrusive monitoring without spot inspections.
In their announcement today, the Iraqis renewed their demand for the dismissal of Richard Butler, the Australian arms control expert who is executive chairman of the United Nations Special Commission charged with disarming Iraq.
The Iraqis also demanded that the commission, known as Unscom, should not have access to information collected by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The commission had routinely combined the agency's data with its own in reports to the Security Council.
"The joint meeting decided to halt all kinds of dealing with the Special Commission and its chief, and stop all their activities in Iraq, including the monitoring, starting from today," the Iraqi statement broadcast in Baghdad said.
Iraqi officials have been threatening a boycott of the commission since repeated crises over access for arms inspectors began in the fall of 1997, when the expulsion of American inspectors led to a withdrawal of all monitors for several weeks.
Iraqi officials have also said in interviews that it takes a crisis to attract the attention of Washington and the United Nations to Iraq's complaints that eight years of sanctions have destroyed its economy, caused civilians to suffer and produced no proof of prohibited arms.
Commission officials counter that while the phase of destruction of arms stockpiles may be over, inspectors still have much documentation to complete on the scale of past programs, so they can be certain that everything has been accounted for.
In the last year, Mr. Hussein has evidently been emboldened in his resistance to inspections by two developments: the failure of the United States to gain much support for another military confrontation with Iraq and the visit of Secretary General Annan to Baghdad in February.
That visit was followed by the opening of new diplomatic links between his office and the Iraqi Government that bypassed the Security Council and reduced the arms commission's influence.
Backed by Russia, France and to some degree China, as well as some rotating Council members, Mr. Hussein has pushed for a lifting of sanctions, in particular the oil embargo.
When the United States, backed by Britain, Japan and others, proved capable of blocking those moves, Iraq reacted in August by halting on-site inspections, and soon began interfering with monitoring activities.
In September, a unified Security Council decided, to Baghdad's dismay, to end regular sanctions reviews, in effect keeping Iraq under an embargo indefinitely.
Iraq then shifted to demands for a wide-ranging review of all its relations with the United Nations, conducted by the Secretary General, as another way of getting sanctions lifted. On Friday that move also failed when the Security Council, again unanimously, said that it would supervise the review, but that first inspections had to be operating normally. And there were no promises about lifting sanctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); WAKE ISLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); WAKE ISLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); HAMDOON, NIZAR (AMB) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



52 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Russia's New Recovery Plan
Moscow approved the first draft of a plan calling for more public spending and tighter economic controls. But a team from the International Monetary Fund did not endorse it. Page 10.
 
Storm Toll Rises to 450
Mudslides killed 58 people near Nicaragua's northwestern border with Honduras as the toll from a Caribbean hurricane reached 450. Page 6. 

SPECIAL TODAY
America's Teaching Crisis
As colleges seek to improve the quality of students they graduate as teachers, the push to raise standards will intensify another crisis: the teacher shortage. EDUCATION LIFE
 
Born in Another Time
The lead characters in Alice Munro's story collection "The Love of a Good Woman" are a pre-1970's generation of women who recall the costly choices that determined their lives. reviewed by Michael Gorra. BOOK REVIEW
 
Consensus in America?
The new American consensus seems to insist on the right to indulge the self. Reports on government of, by and for the comfortable, and on the United States' hollow hegemony. MAGAZINE
 
Music vs. the Musician
Many performances are a delicate dance between the music and the musician. Some players overwhelm the music, while others vanish behind it. But the whole is always a collaboration. ARTS & LEISURE
 
Location Isn't Everything
Wall Street lending financed the latest real estate boom. Now, with global markets in distress, the cash spigot has closed, and both developers and investment banks are reeling. MONEY & BUSINESS
 
Getting Out of Town
Helped by low interest rates, brokers say, vacation home sales are strong. REAL ESTATE
 
A Bit of 19th-Century Europe
Hawthorne's "Marble Faun" is an apt guide to Rome and the subterranean Fleet River leads to tranquil spots in London. TRAVEL
 
Chicken Littled
Tuesday ends an election campaign of crisis -- over morals, Social Security or whatever politicians think might stir up voters. But Americans say things are just fine and they don't like being told they're wrong. WEEK IN REVIEW
 
Employment Advertising/Section 11
 In New York City and the metropolitan region.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



53 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Saturn's Long Wait For Some New Wheels

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
AT the Boston auto show on Friday, the Saturn Corporation pulled the wraps off a new model. While such an introduction is routine for most auto manufacturers, it is a rare occurrence for Saturn.
Thirteen years after the General Motors Corporation established Saturn as a grand $5 billion experiment, and eight years after customers began to take delivery of the small cars built in Spring Hill, Tenn., Saturn has been a success in several ways. It consistently ranks near the top in customer satisfaction and buyer loyalty surveys. It has successfully established itself as a youthful, customer-oriented brand capable of taking on the imports, and it has brought in the kind of buyers -- including relatively young, well-educated women -- that other G.M. divisions have had trouble seducing. And some of Saturn's experimental processes have worked so well that they have spread to other parts of G.M. -- one of the original reasons the subsidiary was set up. 
 Yet while Saturn has plenty of fans, it doesn't have a lot of new products. Aside from the EV1 electric car that is leased (in very low volume) through Saturn dealers in California and Arizona, the three-door coupe unveiled in Boston is the first big leap in Saturn's lineup since sales began in 1990.
Even then, Saturn's cars were almost a sideshow to the rest of the experiment. The basic lineup -- compact coupes, sedans and station wagons built on one platform -- was developed in the mid-1980's, and the cars were by no means on the cutting edge when they finally reached the market. To be sure, the styling and interior designs have been freshened since then, but the mechanical systems have been tweaked only slightly. Meanwhile, primary competitors like the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla have gone through two thorough redesigns that have made them feel far more up to date.
Saturn is also competing in the coldest part of the market. Small-car sales have plunged 20 percent in the last two years as customers have shifted to midsize sedans and sport utility vehicles. Saturn sales fell 10 percent in 1997 and are expected to be off an additional 8 percent this year. Sales of the Civic, meanwhile, have risen.
With industry-wide sales incentives at their highest levels in several years, Saturn is saddled with an official no-haggling policy, presenting prospective customers with a take-it-or-leave-it price. And while competitors offer cash rebates and cut-rate leases, Saturn does not. Rather than permit dealers to discount, Saturn has reduced prices on some models or has added equipment.
Already growing old, the compact Saturns are not scheduled for a complete redesign until the 2003 model year, although they will get another restyling before then. When the small-car line finally gets a top-to-bottom revamping, it will shift to a platform derived from the Opel Astra that will be shared with other G.M. cars.
A small Saturn sport utility is to arrive as a 2002 model, more than a decade after the boom in sport utilities began. By then, Toyota and Honda will be offering second generations of their RAV4 and CR-V, and other new entries will crowd the market.
In the interim, Saturn's hope is a midsize car due next spring as a 2000 model. The LS -- for "large Saturn" -- uses a platform derived from that of the Opel Vectra, a German-built car that was introduced in 1996. Modifications include replacing steel body panels with plastic. (Current owners say plastic panels are part of what makes a Saturn a Saturn.) The LS sedan and station wagon will be powered by a new four-cylinder engine exclusive to Saturn and, for the first time in the division's history, a V6, which is a variant of the Opel engine used in the Cadillac Catera and the Saab 9-5.
While a midsize car will be a welcome addition to the Saturn line, its success is not assured. The LS will enter one of the most competitive parts of the market, taking on a group of very competent cars including America's best-sellers, the Toyota Camry, Honda Accord and Ford Taurus. There is also the question of whether consumers will view the LS as a true Saturn.
"The LS absolutely is a Saturn," Joe Kennedy, Saturn vice president of sales, service and marketing, said in a recent interview. Mr. Kennedy contends that consumers will recognize the LS as quintessentially Saturn, due to its styling, interior ambience and attributes like the plastic body panels.
The Saturn LS will be built at a G.M. plant in Wilmington, Del., that had been slated to close, using workers covered by the U.A.W.'s national labor agreement. In contrast, Saturns are now built at a Tennessee plant designed specifically to produce them. The workers were selected from G.M. employees nationwide and are covered by a special contract that rewards them for meeting quality, sales and profit objectives.
What makes a Saturn a Saturn includes the way it is built and developed, said Mike Bennett, manufacturing adviser and chairman of the bargaining committee for U.A.W. Local 1853, which represents Saturn workers in Tennessee. He said it was Opel -- not Saturn or the workers -- that determined the design of the LS and specified the parts.
More broadly, the union senses that the independence and distinctiveness of Saturn are eroding as it has been folded into G.M.'s small car group and has undergone a series of management changes. There has been no cheerleader for Saturn at the top of the company, as there was with Roger B. Smith, the G.M. chairman when Saturn was born.
Still, Saturn remains optimistic about the LS. While executives won't confirm sales projections, dealers are being told to plan for sales virtually to double, from 231,882 in the 1998 model year; the plant can turn out 200,000 cars a year. The 390 current dealerships are being encouraged to expand, remodel showrooms and add outlets. Last week, Saturn said it would encourage dealers to invest $100,000 each to install fireplaces, aquariums, cappuccino machines and libraries in their showrooms, to give them a homey feel.
Some dealers, however, are reluctant to pump more investment into dealerships that cost them, on average, $5 million to build and, because of slumping sales, aren't nearly as profitable as they once were.
Wall Street analysts, likewise, are skeptical about Saturn's plan to double sales, saying the midsize LS is likely to cannibalize sales of the compact line. "One plus one doesn't equal two in this case, but maybe one and a half," said Maryann Keller, the auto industry analyst for ING Baring in New York.
Saturn is counting on people shopping for larger cars who yearn for a nonadversarial relationship with their dealers. "There are a lot of midsize buyers who would love the shopping, buying, owning experience that is the cornerstone of Saturn and that has not been available to them," Mr. Kennedy said.
The long delay in offering new products has some analysts wondering whether the effort will be too little, too late.
"One would have thought that G.M. management would have figured out long ago that no car company can stay afloat on one product without substantial change," said Ms. Keller, who is pessimistic about Saturn's long-term well-being. "Saturn's product disaster -- and it is a disaster -- lays absolutely at the feet of G.M. management."
John Casesa, an analyst for Schroder & Company, said Saturn was now in the unenviable position of playing defense rather than offense. "Saturn has to try to regain its momentum because G.M. waited a long time to give it another product," he said.
Mr. Kennedy, the Saturn executive, defends G.M.'s stewardship, noting that decisions on future Saturn products would have had to be made in the early 1990's, when the parent company was in a deep financial crisis, its board had ousted G.M.'s top managers and Saturn had not yet proved itself.
Saturn faces other, formidable challenges beyond its shortage of new products.
Its pampering of customers is being copied by competitors who can offer a broader range of cars and trucks.
Its original goals included a mandate to beat the Japanese at their own game on their home turf. Saturn established its Japanese beachhead in April 1997, just before a deep recession. Import sales are off sharply in Japan, and Saturn has had to scale back its ambitious plans there.
And labor relations in Spring Hill, once held up as a model for the industry, have grown strained. Local 1853 voted last summer to authorize its leaders to call a strike, partly because members said the unusual Saturn-U.A.W. partnership was being undercut by G.M.'s moves toward common platforms and parts. Since then, the union local has received assurances that the Saturn partnership will be continued.
In this and many ways the broader question raised by the Saturn experiment falls to G.M. management: Will Saturn remain a different kind of car company, as it advertises, or will it be just another G.M. division?
 
The Coupe's 3d Door: Now You See It, Now You Don't
SATURN will soon offer the industry's first three-door coupe, an idea that could help to revive slumping sales of two-door cars by adding a practical touch to their sporty appearance.
The third door, which will be added to all Saturn coupes, is similar to those of many pickup trucks, providing easier access for passengers, cargo or even wheelchairs. Situated on the driver's side, it can be used only when the front door is open; the latch is on the inner edge of the door. When the doors are closed, the car looks like a typical coupe; the window glass is fixed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prototypes of the midsize Saturn LS sedan and wagon, above, being tested. The 2000-year models go on sale late next spring. Saturn's basic 1999 lineup, right, looks much as it has for years. (Photographs by Jim Dunne/Popular Mechanics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP SATURN CORP (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SATURN DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (76%); SALES & SELLING (76%); RANKINGS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); WOMEN (69%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



54 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2786 words

HEADLINE: When The Ends Don't Meet;
In a City of Fat Cats, Some Wallets Are Paper Thin

BYLINE: By DAVID BLUM 

 BODY:
IT was over in a flash. But to Amelia Garcia, the dream felt almost real, another painful moment from her waking life.
In the dream, Ms. Garcia had to get her children to the baby sitter and herself to work. She hailed a cab and got in. The cabbie told her it would cost $15 to get where she needed to go. "But I don't have $15!" she cried. The cabbie drove off, leaving her stranded and penniless. 
 When she awoke from the dream at 6:58 on a recent morning, Ms. Garcia, 33, was in her two-bedroom apartment on West 116th Street, near Morningside Avenue. After taking a few seconds to brush her hair, she went into her children's bedroom, flipped on "Sesame Street," then pulled her son, Frankell, 4, from his bottom bunk bed and her daughter, Frankyris, 2, from her crib. Twenty minutes later, she had them dressed and ready to go.
She searched through her purse and some kitchen drawers for loose change, enough for the bus fare to get to her $6.25-an-hour job as a home health-care attendant. Then she walked the children to day care, on the 10th floor of a high-rise building at the Grant Houses, at 125th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, and caught a bus to 121st Street and Lexington Avenue, where she was to work that day. As she headed toward the elevator, she looked relaxed for the first time that morning.
"I made it," Ms. Garcia said.
Another day's work means everything to Amelia Garcia. Nine years ago, she arrived in New York from Santo Domingo with the dream of working to save enough money to return to a better life in the Dominican Republic. But she has yet to earn much more than a dollar above the Federal minimum wage, which has been at $5.15 an hour since just over a year ago, when the last increase, from $4.25 an hour, was fully phased in. That puts her below the current poverty level for a family of three, $13,600 a year.
Ms. Garcia is a vivid example of the trap of poverty, which extends beyond welfare recipients into the ranks of millions of working Americans. The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 gave Congress the power to set a minimum wage for all working Americans. In the last six years, Republicans have resisted increasing it, contending that to raise it would reduce the number of jobs and wreak havoc on the economy. This fall, a measure to increase it to $6.15 -- which would directly affect the incomes of an estimated 10 million working Americans -- lost in the Senate, 55 to 44. By delaying any possibility of an increase until next year, Congress in effect lowered the minimum wage in real dollars.
"The basic issue is one of fairness, whether people who work 40 hours a week, 52 weeks a year, deserve a living wage," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who sponsored the legislation. "We haven't been as effective as we should be in communicating to people that minimum-wage workers don't have enough money."
While Democrats point out that workers earning the minimum wage typically make $10,700 a year, Republican Senators counter with evidence that many minimum-wage workers live in families whose combined income exceeds $25,000, and that the majority of minimum-wage workers are young, single and childless. Liberal policy analysts do not entirely dispute that notion. "Sure, there are some leaks in the bucket," said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, "but most of the water reaches the fire."
No one knows the exact number of minimum-wage workers in the United States or how they are divided among job categories, and that has helped muddy the political debate. There is no question that many minimum-wage workers are single. But many others, like Amelia Garcia, have children at home.
Ms. Garcia -- young, healthy and willing to work -- knows nothing about the policy debate in Washington. But she knows the minimum wage is not enough for her and her family to survive in New York. One previous employer kept her at the minimum wage for five years. She is separated from her husband, a cabdriver, who she said also supports four children from a previous marriage, so he contributes little to her family finances. She has a brother in Philadelphia who can't help much.
Under these conditions, Ms. Garcia discovered that it was impossible to support her two children on one minimum-wage income without government help. To pay her $671-a-month rent and care for her two children, she has to supplement her weekly $213 paycheck with government handouts and other charity.
"I don't like to ask people for money," she said one night recently, as her children played nearby with a pool toy, a deflated black-and-white shark. She sank into a floral-print couch she bought two years ago with money from her income tax refund. "I like to work, that's all it is. But I'm always thinking about the rent. Always. Always. I can get help with the food, buy clothes on sale. But every month I have to pay that rent, and nobody's going to help me with that. So the rent is all I think about, really."
Ms. Garcia works full time for Home Assistance Personnel in Kingsbridge Heights in the Bronx, an agency that places her with elderly people in need of home health care. The agency assigns her to cases all over the city, and sometimes as far away as White Plains.
Every Friday she travels to the agency's office on University Avenue to pick up her paycheck. The work is never guaranteed. At least a few days every month there is no work for her, leaving a hole in her budget she has no way to fill. But for all the pressures of her daily life, Ms. Garcia prefers the monthly struggle of bill paying to the alternative of welfare or food stamps. "I like to be free," she said. "To have a job is the best way I know for me to stay free."
It was 9 A.M., and morning commuters balanced their papers and Starbucks coffee containers as they poured into the IRT station at 86th Street and Broadway. Less than a block away, Ms. Garcia waited with dozens of others at the West Side Campaign Against Hunger, hoping for a chance at charity.
In the basement of the Church of St. Paul and St. Andrew at 86th Street and West End Avenue, Ms. Garcia sat on a folding chair waiting for her turn. Volunteers prepared a hot lunch for anyone who wanted to wait. A campaign staff member sat in a small office punching names into a computer, as one by one each person made his or her monthly case for need. How many people living in the household? What is the monthly rent? How much do you pay for utilities? What public assistance do you get?
 
'We're Subsidizing Society's Inadequate Wages'
Those who provided the necessary documentation, like pay stubs and rent bills, were given a blue plastic envelope that entitled them to take a substantial supply of food from the pantry, which is financed by both government and private sources. Ms. Garcia loaded up a cart full of staples -- cereal, vegetables, fruit, meat, chicken and dairy items, along with things like spices, condiments, candy and toiletries.
Staff members at the campaign and others who work closely with New York's poor say that in the last few years they have seen a significant increase in need among those who hold jobs or earn some kind of income. "We see a huge number of working poor in here, maybe half of all our clients, if not more," said Doreen Wohl, the group's executive director. "We're the first stop for people behind on their bills, struggling to make it. It's like we're subsidizing society's inadequate wages."
Over the course of the recent morning Ms. Garcia spent waiting for food, the campaign's staff members interviewed dozens of current and prospective clients. One was Ramon Estrella, 54, a dishwasher at "21" now on disability. After 18 years in New York, he said, it pained him to take the charity of others. Another was Nury Benoit, who despite college training as a lab technology worker makes only $5.75 an hour as a home health attendant. With that wage she supports a child. She is separated from her husband. Living in a Bronx apartment, she pays $233 a month toward a federally subsidized rent of $635.
"The hours are so tough on me," Ms. Benoit said, "that I can't take classes to get a better job. Sometimes I can't even get here in time for the food."
Staff members at several of the 1,200 soup kitchens and food pantries around the city confirmed Ms. Wohl's perception that the working poor now turn up routinely at food charities.
"It's a big part of the problem," said Judith Walker of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, which reported recently that demand for food at the city's soup kitchens and food pantries was up 24 percent in January 1998 compared with the same month a year earlier. Beyond that, 28 percent of the city's pantries and kitchens have noted an increase in working-poor clients. The ranks of minimum-wage workers include bicycle messengers, factory workers, clerical employees, mail-room clerks and fast-food-restaurant employees.
"I can make it through the month with what I get here," Ms. Garcia said, her eyes shifting constantly to the doorway where the food is kept.
In a good month, she takes home roughly $900 from her job. After paying her rent, about $45 for the phone and $28 for the Con Edison bill, she's left with around $160. A city-administered program, the Agency for Child Development, subsidizes full-time day care. Ms. Garcia pays Netty Garcia (no relation) $5 a week for baby-sitting her children while she works and feeding thembreakfast and lunch in the sitter's apartment next to Morningside Park. Frankell and Frankyris share the elder Ms. Garcia with a boy from another family.
Public money also helps Ms. Garcia take care of her family's food and medical needs, and she gets vouchers worth nearly $80 a month from Women, Infants and Children, a state-administered subsidy program that covers nutrition essentials for children 5 and younger, including whole milk, eggs and cereal. "No sugar cereals," she said with a sigh, but stifled any complaint. Her children also qualify for Medicaid, which insures checkups and prescriptions as long as her monthly income remains below $1,524.
 
The Children Get Toys At Christmas, if at All
Ms. Garcia says she has no choice but to seek out government assistance and charity, particularly at the end of every month, when there's little or no money left. She waits for half-price sales at the Gap to buy clothes for her children; toys come at Christmas, if at all.
The only month of the year when she can count on extra money is May, when her income tax refund gives her enough for a major purchase or two. She earmarks that money for a household purchase, something likely to cost more than her weekly paycheck, or even her monthly rent. One year she got a dining room table. Another it was a new bunk bed for Frankell.
"That's the only time I get to buy something I need, like that," Ms. Garcia said. "I think all year about how I'm going to spend that money." She has no money for entertainment. She stays home with her children at night, and the phone provides her primary connection to the world, a network of friends from work and the neighborhood.
"It's my friends who told me about all these programs," Ms. Garcia said. "Nobody's out there telling you. You have to hear about them from somebody."
Ms. Garcia grew up poor in the Dominican Republic and still hopes to return to her native country with money earned in the United States. The little she has managed to save since she came to New York in 1989 she keeps in a bank. She said her balance, a bit more than $1,000, had remained the same for the last few years.
"It's there in case of an emergency, so I don't think about it," she said. "I can't get it any higher."
"Stop running, Frankell," Ms. Garcia practically shouted at her son, who has a 4-year-old's passion for discovery in a world with little left to find. He raced from room to room of their tiny apartment, desperately looking for ways to amuse himself with pillows, a Mickey Mouse doll and a Spiderman action figure. A videotape of the live action "101 Dalmatians" played in the background. His mother did not focus on his search, trying instead to get her daughter to eat some remaining bites of dinner. It was 7:15 on a weekday evening, and the signs of exhaustion already showed on her face, even though her children would not go to sleep for another several hours.
The Garcias live toward the western edge of Harlem, in the shadow of Columbia University on an empty block of 116th Street. Around the corner, burned-out buildings dot the landscape. Their small two-bedroom apartment has been recently renovated, and Ms. Garcia has tried hard to give it some character. Opportunities to go out to dinner or a movie are few, so she devotes what is left of her income to her furnishings.
By the couches hang two brightly colored reproductions of bucolic country scenes. Elsewhere in the combination living-dining room hangs a rendering of these words: "A Baby Is God's Way of Saying the World Should Go On." Nearby in a white cabinet is a Panasonic 32-inch color television set (bought seven years ago, right after her wedding) and music system. Another cabinet holds a neat collection of glassware.
"If everything in your house is ugly then you feel ugly inside," Ms. Garcia said. "That's what it's all about for me."
She is a soft-looking woman with a gentle smile. Most of the time she dresses in sweaters and jeans, and pulls her hair back from her face. Her pride is evident in every aspect of her life: her kitchen is immaculate if small, with a washing machine crammed into one corner. She bought the machine with her husband five years ago, right before Frankell was born, when two incomes and no children made things easier to afford. The glass dining room table with white wooden chairs is elegant and free of clutter. "I waited a very long time for that table," she said.
 
Crisscrossing the City To Keep Ahead of Red Tape
Frankell and Frankyris share one bedroom. They have fewer than a dozen books between them, and a handful of videos. In the corner sits a boy's red bike. Their room is their private sanctuary; they love nothing more than to take visitors inside for a pillow fight. Both children have learned some English, though Ms. Garcia thinks that her son may have attention deficit disorder.
"I had him tested, and they said it's not genetic," she said. "We have to find out what it is, because it'll make a difference where I send him to school next year." At home he seems like a typical 4-year-old, full of energy and spirit, and blissfully unaware of his circumstances. Frankyris is more circumspect, but at 2 already orders her mother around with style.
"There's nothing I can do better right now," Ms. Garcia said, watching helplessly as her children raced across the floor, giggling and screaming. "I have to get trained for a better job, like learning how to use a computer. But where am I going to get the time for that? The rent comes due every month." She looked over and added, "And I'm the only one who's going to pay it."
Three or four days a month Ms. Garcia's agency cannot find her any work. In her spare moments, she says, she attends classes toward a general equivalency diploma. The 12 years of school she completed in the Dominican Republic do not qualify her for better jobs here. The rest of the time she races around the city to sign forms, pick up papers and take care of other bureaucratic chores to keep her benefits coming.
Ms. Garcia is an expert at logistics, with an intimate knowledge of most bus and subway routes. One day she has to go to West 97th Street and Columbus Avenue to arrange for the government program that pays for her children's milk, eggs and cereal; another day she has to sign a form at West 100th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, then head to work on Delancey Street.
It was on the subway that Ms. Garcia learned about the food pantry at the West Side Campaign Against Hunger.
"This lady sitting next to me had a big bag of food, and we started talking, and she told me how I could sign up and get food for my family," she said. "So the next month I went down."
One day last month, Ms. Garcia had an unexpected day off from work, and a morning free before she had to be at the class where she studies for her equivalency diploma. So she went down to the food pantry for her monthly visit.
But when she got there, staff members said a food shipment had just arrived, and she would have to return the next day. With three hours to spare, Ms. Garcia took her coat off and joined the team of volunteers opening boxes.
"They needed the help," she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture last Sunday, showing Amelia Garcia and her children, carried an incorrect credit. The picture was by Thomas Dallal for The New York Times, not for The Daily News.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WAKE-UP 7 A.M.; GET READY 7:15 A.M.; DROP-OFF 7:45 A.M.; RIDE to WORK 8:10 A.M.
 
"If everything in your house is ugly, then you feel ugly inside," said Amelia Garcia, at home with her son, Frankell, 4, and daughter, Frankyris, 2. (Thomas Dallal for The Daily News)(pg. 1); ONE DAY AT A TIME: "To have a job is the best way I know for me to stay free," says Amelia Garcia, whose life revolves around her children and her job as a home health-care attendant, which pays $6.25 an hour. "No sugar cereals" are allowed by the government program that helps Ms. Garcia. Ms. Garcia bought the color television set not long after she was married seven years go. These days such big purchases are rare. (Photographs by Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Charts: "THE BIG STRETCH"
As a home health-care attendant, Amelia Garcia takes home about $900 a month, or $10,800 a year, far below the current Federal poverty level of $13,600 for a family of three. This is how she divides her monthly income:
 
RENT -- $671
PHONE -- $45
CON ED -- $28
BABYSITTER -- $20
REMAINING -- $136
 
Ms. Garcia also receives other government benefits:
FOOD VOUCHERS -- Provides nutritious food, including milk, eggs and cereal, for youngsters under 5 and younger.
MEDICAID -- Pays for prescriptions, check-ups and medical care for her children.
DAY-CARE PROGRAM -- Pays most of the cost of a baby sitter while Ms. Garcia works. (pg. 1)
 
"MONEY MATTERS: The Real Minimum Wage"
The minimum wage since 1955, adjusted for inflation in 1997 dollars. The proposed increase, defeated this fall in the Senate, would have brought the minimum wage's real value only to where in was in the early 1980's, before it was eroded 30 percent by inflation. (Source: Economic Policy Institute)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CHILD CARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); TRENDS (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); POVERTY RATES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); 

PERSON: GARCIA, AMELIA; BLUM, DAVID AMELIA GARCIA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



55 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4169 words

HEADLINE: The New American Consensus;
Our Hollow Hegemony

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria is the managing editor of Foreign Affairs.

 BODY:
Sometime this summer the post-cold-war world ended. It was a brief, giddy age. We were thrust into it headlong barely 10 years ago, when the Berlin wall cracked, Eastern Europe freed itself and the Soviet Union disintegrated. Suddenly the United States became not just the sole surviving superpower but the repository of the sole surviving ideology. Countries around the globe fell over themselves to embrace capitalism, democracy and the American way -- from mutual funds to Madonna. As if conscious of the need to play its part, the American economy surged to historic highs.
The new forces of globalization swept the world. Economics and technology reigned supreme and ancient civilizations struggled to become emerging markets. Western nations moved furiously into a postindustrial, information age with explosions of new industries and wealth. As economies intertwined, cyberspace took off and capital (and capitalists) sloshed around the world at a heady pace, the old world of international politics and national security seemed utterly obsolete. Even thinking in terms of national boundaries was considered old-fashioned. "We treat the world as a single nation," declared Alfred Zeien, C.E.O. of Gillette. 
 The new world order found a new world stage. Where international attention was once focused on the General Assembly of the United Nations or U.S.-Soviet summits, for the last decade it has been lavished on Davos, an Alpine ski resort in Switzerland. There, each year in late January, the international business and media elite gathered at the World Economic Forum, and developing countries strove mightily to impress the conferees by dispatching their presidents and prime ministers or, better still, their economists. Once the most dazzling figures on the international scene were diplomats -- Acheson, Eden, Kissinger; now they were economists -- Chubais, Cavallo, Summers. Every country worth its salt had a brilliant young economist charting its new course. (He was always young and always brilliant.) Every year a new reformist regime bubbled with promise. Ukraine, Tunisia and Portugal all had their 15 minutes of fame -- and their country funds a resulting 15 percent uptick.
It is difficult to mark the end of an era with precision, but just as Russia's embrace of the Western model ushered in the beginning of a new age in world affairs, so the collapse of Russian reform this past July heralded its end. There were other signs. The Asian financial crisis, Japan's deepening depression, nuclear explosions in South Asia, the emboldening of Saddam Hussein and the return of terrorism all wore at the easy assumptions of peace and prosperity that have characterized the 1990's. It remains difficult to see on the horizon a worldwide depression or a large-scale war, but gone is the expectation that the post-cold-war world was inexorably evolving into something new and better.
Three times this century the United States waged and won a world war against an evil empire. Each time -- in 1919, 1945 and 1989 -- it hoped that, with this struggle over, with this evil vanquished, with this empire defeated, international affairs would be quite different from the past. The dismal cycle of war and destruction would be replaced by an ever-expanding realm of peace, prosperity and liberty. And for the third time this century, that hope has faded as politics returns to the world of nations.
What is different this time is that, when finally the entire world seemed to admit that the American dream was their dream too, America lost interest.
After World War I, and again after World War II, the United States worked hard to bring about changes in the world that made it, more than ever before, hospitable to free markets, liberal democracy and international cooperation. Today, however, it is not the world that has given up on America but America that has given up on the world. Historians will surely look back on this decade and be struck that at America's moment of greatest global triumph -- when all the world looked to Washington for leadership -- and in the midst of an almost-unprecedented economic boom, Americans became uncharacteristically small-minded in their ambitions.
The open world economy -- whatever the rhetoric of businessmen and economists -- is a political construct, neither natural nor self-sustaining. In its current incarnation, it is the product of concerted American policies since 1945. By sheltering Western Europe from the Soviet threat, Washington made it unnecessary for those nations to have their own (possibly competing) national policies and thus helped promote an unprecedented era of cooperation in Europe. Washington pumped public money around the world. It constructed a regime of fixed exchange rates anchored by the dollar, creating for a generation a stable environment in which the world economy could flourish without panics and crashes.
Perhaps most important, like Britain in the 19th century, Washington practiced unilateral free trade, opening the American market to foreign goods even when others would not reciprocate -- thus fueling the growth of Europe, East Asia and Latin America. Globalization -- which entails not simply the opening of markets but also societies -- has been a product of American foreign policy over 50 years. But as the global economic system confronts its first, deep crisis, America has lost interest in its own handiwork.
This is not a problem that can simply be laid at the door of Bill Clinton or Newt Gingrich or politicians generally. Apathy about the world pervades every aspect of American society today. Coverage of foreign news by networks and newsmagazines has plummeted. The number of foreign news reports broadcast by NBC dropped from 1,013 in 1988 to 327 in 1996. For decades, White House news conferences were dominated by questions about foreign policy. Today, even at a joint meeting with Clinton and Yeltsin, reporters ask a few obligatory questions about foreign policy and quickly move to the domestic crisis of the moment. Book publishers are uninterested in publishing anything about world affairs.
These trends reflect an increasingly competitive business environment and an increasingly frivolous public culture, but at the heart of things lies the simple fact that the average American is simply not interested in the world.
The United States, we are often told, is isolationist at its core. The settlers came to the New World to escape the court intrigues and internecine power struggles of the Old. And, indeed, America's lack of interest in the world beyond is real and deep-rooted. But American isolationism is a curious thing. The relentless march of 13 colonies north, south and west across a continent can hardly be called isolationism. This territorial expansion required a complex series of negotiations with France, Spain, Britain and Mexico -- and wars with three of the four -- in addition to a stream of bloody battles with the Native Americans. More curious still is American behavior in this century. While sometimes disengaging from the international scene altogether (during the 1930's, for example), America also conceived of and sponsored the most ambitious international projects in this century, or any other for that matter. The League of Nations, the United Nations, the Marshall Plan, the Helsinki Final Act -- all are products of American power and principle. How to explain this national split personality?
America's most basic attitude toward the world abroad mirrors that of its cultural homeland -- Great Britain. Like the United States, Britain for centuries saw itself as an island nation separate from, and superior to, the scheming continent it abutted. In one of the first authentic expressions of English nationalism, Shakespeare's John of Gaunt defines his country as
This fortress built by Nature for herself
Against infection and the hand of war . . .
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Against the envy of less happier lands.
About 35 years after Shakespeare wrote "Richard II," John Winthrop, the Governor of Massachusetts, declared the new American colonies "a city upon a hill." And while he did not go on to describe the envious and infected lowlands around the hill, the implication is obvious. If the world as it exists is evil, what follows is that it can either be ignored or transformed but never accepted. International politics is to be transcended, not engaged in.
Thus dealing with European great powers for the purpose of westward expansion was proper, since the goal was the Americanization of these lands. But any kind of alliances or involvement at Europe's congresses and conferences was dangerous, for their evil ways would corrupt the young republic. President John Quincy Adams's July 4 speech from 1821 famously asserts that "America does not go abroad in search of monsters to destroy." But Adams goes on to explain why America should not take up even a good cause abroad: "She well knows that by once enlisting under other banners than her own . . . she would involve herself . . . in all the wars of interest and intrigue, of individual avarice, envy, and ambition. . . .She might become the dictatress of the world. She would be no longer the ruler of her own spirit."
This suspicion of the world goes well beyond Presidents and secretaries of state. Randy Newman's satirical song "Political Science" captures most Americans' irritation with the world.
We give them money, but are they grateful?
No, they're spiteful and they're hateful.
They don't respect us, so let's surprise 'em!
We'll drop the Big One and pulverize 'em.
Boom goes London! Boom Paree!
The historian Walter McDougall points out insightfully that the lyrics, written during the cold war, do not read: "Boom goes Moscow! Boom Beijing!" It is dealing with friends and allies -- in other words conducting routine diplomacy -- that frustrates Americans. Woodrow Wilson best exemplified this attitude in his ambivalence about American participation in World War I. He wanted to enter the war to change the world, but he could not bring himself to engage in traditional balance-of-power politics, i.e. to take sides. He tried in vain in January 1917 to get all countries in battle to simply renounce their war aims and accept a "peace without victory." (Georges Clemenceau, future French Premier, called that speech "so fine a sermon on what human beings might be capable of accomplishing if only they weren't human.") Finally Wilson was forced to take America into the war, but he did so with his nose high in the air. Washington fought not as an "ally" of the British and French but as an "associated power," implying that it had other, purer goals than they. And indeed it did. "We shall fight," Wilson declared in his war message to Congress, "for a universal dominion of right . . . as shall bring peace and safety to all nations and make the world itself at last free ."
It is easy to mock this hope for a new and better world as European "sophisticates" have done for decades. The world is intractable, they say; human beings are fallible; problems are endemic; foreign policy is an ongoing process. There is wisdom in these Burkean cautions. But, in fact, the dream is worth dreaming. Free markets, free trade, an open world economy and political cooperation are an alluring alternative to war, pestilence and disease. Washington sponsored and nurtured an open world economy, which is at the heart of the hope to transform a poor and envious world into a prosperous and secure one. For developing countries, hitching their wagons to the global economy has proved to be the only way out of thousands of years of poverty. Over the last 30 years, East Asian nations brought literally hundreds of millions of people out of medieval conditions of malnutrition, sickness and despair -- easily the fastest rate of poverty alleviation in human history. And in the 1990's so many countries around the world seemed poised to follow that example.
So why did these promising developments go awry? Who lost the post-cold-war world? Well, transforming the world is a tall order. The realities of international politics always intrude on dreams. But they have done so in these last few years more quickly and thoroughly than they might have because Americans -- leaders and public alike -- lost faith in their own ideals. Exhausted by its long struggle with the Soviet Union, without fears of war or depression, America in the 1990's has still wanted to transform the world, but it has not wanted to work the transformation itself -- or to pay for it.
Central to any transformation of the post-cold-war world was the transformation of Russia. As with Germany and Japan in 1945, an enduring peace required that Moscow be integrated into the Western world. Otherwise a politically and economically troubled great power -- which strides continents and has the world's second-largest storehouse of nuclear weapons -- would remain bitter and resentful about the post-cold-war order. In the early 1990's, the most important Russian leaders wanted Russia to go down this path and be partners with the West -- Yeltsin himself, but also others like Boris Federov, Anatoly Chubais, Yegor Gaidar and Andrei Kozyrev.
What is striking, however, is that throughout the 1990's few American statesmen -- with the notable exception of Richard Nixon -- ever wanted to make the transformation of Russia an American goal.
"Russians will define Russia's future," Bill Clinton has said many times, as if to absolve America (and himself) of "losing" that country. The United States has certainly tried to help liberalize Russia's economics and politics, but considering the size of that country and the history of its problems -- and when compared to the initiatives of the 1940's and 50's in Europe and Japan -- these efforts have been weak and halfhearted. Much of the time, we have accommodated to Russian realities -- its autocratic democracy, weak state institutions, enduring Communist elite -- rather than trying to change them. "De-Communization" was never even a goal as de-Nazification was, even if the latter was incompletely carried out.
While George Bush was generous in his treatment of the defeated Soviet Union, he recounts in his recent memoir how miserly he felt he had to be in helping out the new democratic Russia. A senior Bush official recalls: "We never challenged domestic and budgetary constraints and said to the American people: 'This is a world historic moment. We have a chance to make an enormous difference.' By 1992, Bush was under attack for being a foreign-policy President and Russia got lost in these fears." The Clinton Administration was even less ambitious. To date, all American aid to Russia over the decade -- including our share of the International Monetary Fund and every other international organization's grants and loans -- stands around $15 billion. The Marshall Plan alone was six times its size.
We would have wasted the money, we are now told. Russia, after all, is a corrupt, feudal country with a legacy of Communism and no Enlightenment, Renaissance or Reformation. (And, of course, at this point, with Russian reform in tatters, its reformers unemployed and the country on the verge of chaos, any large-scale aid effort would be futile.) But you did not hear such cultural determinism in the late 1940's. After all, Japan had no Enlightenment, Renaissance or Reformation either, and its feudal history was deeper and more sustained than Russia's. Germany's past had its own problems. And both countries had been at war with America, killing, torturing and maiming Americans with savage brutality. And yet a few years later, Americans committed themselves to rebuild these countries and thus transformed ever-warring Europe into a benign trading bloc. Who knows how hopeless a defeated Japan or Germany would have looked 10 years after World War II without major American involvement? Who knows what Russia could have looked like today if the United States had been truly ambitious?
And then there is Asia. When the turmoil in East Asia first broke, Americans looked on as if it were a freak show. Many commentators took it as an opportunity to gloat about the virtues of the American way of life and the poverty of Asian values. Policy makers seemed to believe that matters could be left to the I.M.F. and that no political response was necessary. Globalization would do the their work for them. The market would force countries to become genuinely free economies. The discrediting of Communism would make nations naturally accept liberal democracy and the rule of law. Goldman, Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other banks and mutual funds would do the work of transformation. Washington would watch and cheer.
"We can't want reform in any country more than its government and its people do," Lawrence Summers, the Deputy Secretary of Treasury, often intones, perfectly expressing this view of America, and of the average American, as concerned spectator. But until yesterday the United States wanted certain kinds of reform more than the government and the people themselves. We have cajoled, urged, bribed and threatened regimes to liberalize their economies along Anglo-American lines. To take just one example, during the last decade Washington has pressured East Asia's emerging economies to make their currencies fully convertible. American financial firms pushed hard for this change because they wanted easy access to these growing markets. Any thought of a phased transition, in which countries moved gradually to expose themselves to the fury of global capital markets, was ruled out even though that is how convertibility came to Western Europe (which had stable financial institutions and centuries of experience with capitalism). This "reform" was a crucial factor in the East Asian boom and bust -- as billions of dollars moved in and out free and fast.
The modesty of American ambition has not been matched by a modesty of rhetoric. In 1992, it is worth recalling, Bill Clinton accused his predecessor of spending too much time on foreign policy, but his criticisms of Bush's policy at least implied an even more ambitious and expensive one. Clinton accepted all Bush's concerns, but added to them the need to restore Bosnia to its unified multiethnic status, pressure China to democratize, help Haitians in despair, rebuild the Somali nation and assist further in Russia's reforms. All this from an Administration promising to pay less attention to foreign policy! Of course, most of this proved to be merely rhetoric.
Over the last year and a half, Washington has insisted on keeping tight control of the international response to the global economic crisis -- while offering very little by way of policy ideas, initiatives, organization or money. Last year, the Japanese Government, which has provided far more in aid to Southeast Asia than the United States, offered to set up a $100 billion "Asian Monetary Fund" to prevent a further loss of confidence in that region. Washington instinctively vetoed it.
Ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Washington has enjoyed playing the part of sole superpower -- being visited by all, making glorious speeches, strutting around the globe. But it has not wanted to pay the bills in political capital, energy, attention or dollars. We are eager to lead on any problem that can be solved quickly and on the cheap. We trumpeted NATO expansion as the most ambitious new project for the security of Europe, and then quickly explained that it would cost virtually nothing. We declared that the restoration of Bosnia as a single, multiethnic nation was vital, but made it clear that we had no intention of paying the high price that this would entail. We have sought to bring order to the periphery -- Haiti, Somalia -- because it was easier than stabilizing the core: Russia.
The way foreign policy is made nowadays has exaggerated this fitful leadership. (Now you see us, now you don't.) Crises that flash vividly onto television take on an urgency that may have little to do with their intrinsic importance, which explains America's continued indifference to the (untelevised) horrors in Sudan, which outstrip as a humanitarian catastrophe anything happening in the Balkans. While public support for serious international initiatives has always been fragile, politicians used to be able to build support for them steadily, over months and years. The public was, after all, initially against American involvement in World War II, the Marshall Plan, the gulf war and almost all free-trade agreements.
But politicians have increasingly become unwilling, and unable, to educate and guide public opinion. Last year, President Clinton could not convince his own party to give him authority to negotiate trade agreements, the first time such authority has been denied in a generation. (And at a time when the American economy was at a 35-year peak and unemployment was 4.7 percent!) Since politicians do not want to lead and the public does not want to be led, foreign policy is increasingly being made by narrow interest groups (business lobbies, ethnic organizations) often with a single agenda, who pressure Congress and the Administration to enact their favorite policy. Thus American manufacturers lobbied for Japan-bashing in the early days of the Clinton Administration, Polish- and Hungarian-Americans fought for NATO expansion, African-American lobbyists pushed for the invasion of Haiti, Cuban-Americans have sought harsh sanctions on Cuba and so on.
It is a new Wilsonianism, full of unilateral declarations, righteous rhetoric and spasmodic interventions. Economic sanctions and air power have become the indispensable handmaidens of today's foreign policy because they offer, in Eliot Cohen's phrase, the allure of modern courtship: gratification without commitment. With a few exceptions, sanctions provide the opportunity for cheap moralizing -- taking a stand that pleases some domestic group, while in fact doing little to change the reality on the ground. (According to the Institute of International Economics, a Washington think tank, a third of all American sanctions this century have been instituted in the 1990's.) Bombing makes it possible to reap the glory and rewards of military action with none of its usual costs. Problems that might be solved by bombing, we readily undertake. Problems -- often more serious and long-term -- that cannot be addressed by this method we ignore. We have become a nation of cheap hawks.
Our current path is an alluring alternative to real international leadership, with its hard choices, gray areas and persistent struggle. The Truman Administration, for example, rebuilt and secured Western Europe and Japan but ignored the Communist takeover of China. It put into place containment policies that would have to be pursued steadily for decades before they bore fruit. It dealt with dictators and guerrillas and financed political parties and intellectual groups -- whatever was necessary to promote American interests and ideals. Despite an extraordinary position of power, it yielded to its allies in negotiations time and time again. In other words, it engaged in international politics, and in so doing, transformed it.
Just as important, the Truman Administration educated the American people about the world they lived in. This was a time -- and it was no coincidence -- when the lives of ordinary Americans intersected with great world events. Timothy Naftali, a historian at the University of Virginia, explains: "During World War II and the early cold war, personal lives and public life became connected. Hundreds of thousands of Americans took part in the war effort, the Marshall Plan, the Korean War and other such projects. It is this generation of Americans that cares about foreign policy, buys books on international affairs, politics and history, watches news shows and documentaries. Generations since have seen no connection between their own lives and the world beyond."
Perhaps this isn't so bad. Perhaps the ambition to change the world was absurd to begin with, and it is for the best that America renounces it. Perhaps America must become a "sophisticated" country, willing to accept the world as it is. This would represent a tremendous loss of faith, but could bring a different kind of stability to the world and a sense of limits to American politics. It would mean a scaling back of lofty aims along with a willingness to share the benefits and burdens of global leadership with its allies.
But this is not what has happened. There are no signs that the Clinton Administration -- or the American people -- are ready for realism. What we have now is the rhetoric of transformation but the reality of accommodation: a hollow hegemony.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 1998, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 1 about United States foreign policy misstated John Quincy Adams's title in 1821. He was Secretary of State, not President.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Briggses, Grand Forks, N.D. (Kent Caulfield); The Armstrongs, Jekyll Island, Ga. (David Smith); The Edwardses, Fredericksburg, Tex. (Joe Beckendorf); The Enriquez and Gonzaleses, Bisbee, Ariz. (Richard Byrd); The Van Bergens, Titusville, Fla. (Gregory Daniel); The Smiths, Bay City, Mich. (Tina Petzold); The Lannans, Lakeside, Ariz. (Eskridge Photography); The Thompsons, Park City, Utah (Andrew Holloway); The Carters, San Marino, Calif. (Michael Glen Taylor); The Carters, San Marino, Calif. (Gill Photographers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UKRAINE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UKRAINE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: ZAKARIA, FAREED SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); ADAM SMITH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



56 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 13; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 2444 words

HEADLINE: UP CLOSE;
At Queens College, Shaking Up Is Hard to Do

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine, is the author of "City on a Hill: Testing the American Dream at City College."

 BODY:
Last summer, Allen L. Sessoms, the president of Queens College, came up with the kind of radical, out-of-the-box proposal you don't often hear from officials at the City University of New York: a merger between his college and nearby Queensborough Community College to form the University of Queens, a new entity with remedial students at the bottom and doctoral candidates at the top.
 The plan got a remarkably frosty reception. The chairman of CUNY's board of trustees, Anne A. Paolucci, whom Gov. George E. Pataki had installed to lead a wave of reform, dismissed the idea as a distraction. 
 Mr. Sessoms's own faculty members were, and remain, somewhere between skeptical and hostile. A high-ranking CUNY official calls him a hot dog; a social scientist at Queens refers to him as an opportunist.
 In a way, Mr. Sessoms is a symbol of the changes being thrust upon the CUNY colleges from the outside: from Governor Pataki, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and members of the board of trustees, who have been demanding that the system raise its academic standards, even at the cost of its historic commitment to open admissions. Mr. Sessoms is the rare insider who identifies with these external forces of change; he has come up with one initiative after another designed to raise Queens's profile and distinguish it from the other CUNY colleges. The system has reacted to him as if he were a foreign body in its midst.
 "The problem with people at CUNY is they're very passive," says Herman Badillo, a board member appointed by Mayor Giuliani and a strong supporter of Mr. Sessoms's. "They like to maintain the status quo."
 In background, Mr. Sessoms is not part of the system; his sense of what is right and normal comes from elsewhere. A graduate of Union College, he earned a Ph.D. in physics from Yale in 1971, taught at Harvard for seven years and then joined the State Department, where he negotiated nuclear nonproliferation agreements in Iran, Iraq and the Soviet Union. Thereafter, he served as a diplomat in Paris and Mexico City. Mr. Sessoms, who is married to an economist and has two children, then spent two years as academic vice president at the University of Massachusetts before being hired at Queens in 1995.
 Mr. Sessoms talks about the open admissions ideal like someone who has just flown in from Paris. "If you want to go to the Sorbonne, and your French isn't good enough, you go to the Alliance Francaise," he said last month in a conversation in his office, overlooking the campus. "If you can't, tough; there are no excuses. I don't see the point in making the case that people should be permitted to do things they're incapable of doing. It doesn't help them, it doesn't help the institution, and we can't afford it."
 That sits pretty flat on the toothbrush, all right. Words like "incapable" are taboo inside CUNY; people who use them are branded reactionary, elitist or even -- the ultimate weapon -- racist. But Mr. Sessoms has one incalculable advantage over CUNY's usual critics: he is black, and he was raised, as he often reminds visitors, in the South Bronx. His father ran a bodega, and his mother was a nurse. He is a product of the bygone, pre-open-admissions era of no excuses.
 "If you were misbehaving in school," he recalled, "your parents knew about it before you got home. The teacher was someone to be respected, and if there was a problem in the school, it was the kid's fault."
 Mr. Sessoms graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High School, where, he says, only "dummies" failed to graduate with a Regents diploma signifying a college-preparatory course of study. When he gave the commencement address at Roosevelt in 1996, he says, he was told proudly that 114 students were graduating -- in a school of 4,000 students. Barely a dozen had Regents degrees.
 "The problem," Mr. Sessoms says, "lies not with the teachers and administrators, but with the larger social unwillingness to demand achievement and to stigmatize failure" -- an unwillingness, he believes, CUNY has perpetuated.
 Mr. Sessoms, 52, is a brisk and self-confident figure with the strong handshake and solid upper body of the track athlete he was in high school and college. He is the kind of person who professes bafflement that others cannot see what is perfectly obvious to him. He has only good things to say about Governor Pataki, and he seems to view New York's famously combative mayor, widely despised inside CUNY, as something of a role model. "Rudy Giuliani has demonstrated that he doesn't have to be loved," Mr. Sessoms says. "He only has to be successful."
 Mr. Sessoms has some of the Mayor's penchant for the harsh truth. "The only thing that matters in public policy documents is the budget line," he says. Over the last 20 years, CUNY has suffered devastating budget cuts that have reduced the number of full-time faculty by more than half. When Mr. Sessoms arrived at Queens, it was facing a new round of reductions, and the faculty was hoping that the new president would use his prestige to defend the system and demand a restoration of funds as a moral right.
 But Mr. Sessoms views the language of moral rights as a self-defeating indulgence. The taxpayers were sending CUNY a message, he concluded, and the message was, "It doesn't work; it's been dead for 15 years." It was time, he argued, to listen to the taxpayers.
 In fact, Queens College is not one of the schools that has given open admissions a bad name in some quarters. Along with Hunter and Baruch, it is generally considered one of the best of CUNY's 11 senior colleges. The campus was originally a home for wayward boys, and Mr. Sessoms's 12th-floor office looks out on a grassy commons surrounded by several quaint, Mission-style stucco buildings. The college draws on the immigrant population in Queens, as well as on middle class students in Nassau County. Almost two-thirds of the 13,000 undergraduates are white, and one-third are Jewish; there are twice as many Asian students as blacks. By contrast, among the 200,000 students at CUNY, 33 percent are black, 29 percent white, 26 percent Hispanic and 12 percent Asian. The controversies that roil the system have only occasionally touched Queens. The campus is not a hotbed of anything, save study.
 Mr. Sessoms says he found Queens to be a good college missing the opportunity to be great. One of his first initiatives was to raise the bar of admission above the CUNY minimum mandated for the senior colleges: he made the S.A.T.'s mandatory, raised the required grade-point average from the low 80's to 85 and steadily increased the minimum number of high school academic credits required to 16 from 10. Many members of the Queens faculty thought that Mr. Sessoms was taking on a nonexistent issue.
 "Admissions standards are not the problem," says Barbara Bowen, an associate professor of English and the head of the college's chapter of the faculty and staff union. "The problem is underfunding."
 Inside CUNY, selectivity is almost always seen negatively, as the kinder face of exclusionism. "If you drastically raise standards there may be a rather severe decline in the number of minorities who graduate," says Dean Savage, an economist at Queens. In fact, Queens's freshman enrollment fell sharply after the first year of the new standards, though the numbers have since started to creep back. Mr. Sessoms is proud of the fact that applications increased 10 percent last year, despite the more stringent requirements. In a guide to be published early next year by the Stanley Kaplan organization, Queens was rated one of the most attractive institutions for African-American students nationwide. "We're starting," he says, "to look like a normal place."
 Earlier this year, after relentless prodding from the Mayor, CUNY's board passed a plan that would phase out all remediation from the senior colleges over three years, and eliminate it immediately at Queens, Hunter, Baruch and Brooklyn. (The ruling has been stalled by a court injunction.) Mr. Sessoms is one of the few college presidents to have openly embraced the board's plan, even though about half of entering students at Queens now fail one of the assessment tests that determine remedial placement. Mr. Sessoms says he feels confident that intensive tutoring would allow almost all of these students to survive in regular courses. But at a campus like City College, where students arrive with far more serious academic problems, the casualty rate would surely be much higher. Mr. Sessoms shrugs. "They go there and they get completely blown out," he says, "or they get their grades inflated, so they're completely misled. Who have you helped?"
 U of Q, as they call Mr. Sessoms's proposal on campus, was designed in part to solve the problem of admissions standards. Since the community colleges would still be permitted to offer remedial courses under the board's plan, Mr. Sessoms would be able to offload his remedial students onto the lower rungs of the new university with no loss of enrollment or, therefore, of state revenue. He would thus raise standards without sacrificing access. The key element of the plan, though, is that the university would also offer doctoral degrees, which the colleges are currently prohibited from doing by state law. Many professors at Queens, especially in the sciences, are already doing doctoral research on campus, but their degrees are awarded by the Graduate Center, a CUNY-wide body located in Manhattan.
 Mr. Sessoms insists that the proposal has a good chance of gaining the approval of both the CUNY board and the state legislature, but it would be no tribute to his sense of hard-headed realism if he actually believed that. In a recent presentation to the board, he put the cost of creating the university at $26 million. Since Queens's current budget is $68 million, that's a lot of money at a time of retrenchment.
 Mr. Sessoms argues that the U of Q would be eligible for the great pots of Federal money that go to sustain doctoral research, thus helping solve Queens's perpetual money problems. But the individual colleges already receive millions in Federal grants; Frances Degen Horowitz, the president of the Graduate Center, says that Queens lags far behind schools like City or Hunter because its faculty is simply not competitive.
 "Since the placement of doctoral students is heavily dependent on the reputation of your faculty," Ms. Horowitz tartly notes, "the new university could not possibly serve its students as well as the Graduate Center does.
 "For people who don't know a lot about higher education," she adds, "these" -- here she pauses to insert an off-the-record adjective -- "representations sound very impressive; when you dig behind them, the facts don't support it."
 Many faculty members complain that the idea was sprung on them. "The University of Queens is exemplary of an approach that has caused a lot of problems," Ms. Bowen says. "Sessoms has shown disregard for the academic structure of decision-making."
 But the U of Q is certainly not dead. Neither the Mayor nor the Governor has weighed in on the plan, and one board member, John Calandra, says he and some like-minded colleagues are eager to hear more details. Mr. Calandra lauds Mr. Sessoms for causing a debate on some fundamental issues that have been taken for granted for years.
 Whether or not Mr. Sessoms gets his doctoral program, he has already begun to raise Queens's profile. His biggest success story to date is the new Center for Molecular and Cellular Biology, to be headed by Luc Montagnier, the celebrated French AIDS researcher. This spectacular coup was largely engineered by Bernard Salick, a doctor-turned-entrepreneur who pursued Dr. Montagnier and gave the college $3 million to finance a chair and help build the center. Dr. Montagnier's commitment has allowed Mr. Sessoms to raise $20 million from the state and city governments and, he says, $10 million from pharmaceutical companies. It has also attracted a leading AIDS researcher in the behavioral sciences. Construction is expected to begin this month.
 Other AIDS experts say that Dr. Montagnier is more of a star than a cutting-edge figure, but Mr. Sessoms has no qualms about playing the celebrity game. He has persuaded George J. Mitchell, the former Democratic Senator from Maine, to serve as a senior fellow and super guru in a new center for international relations. It didn't sound as if Mr. Mitchell would be around all that much, but, like Dr. Montagnier, he could be a public relations boon for Queens.
 Mr. Sessoms has also hired a former CBS executive, Thomas F. Leahy, to serve as director of a new media and communications school and to raise $10 million to get it going. In addition, he has brought in the Center for Educational Innovation, a group of former school administra-tors, to create a kindergarten through-second-grade laboratory school in conjunction with Queens's education school, as well as a program to train principals and superintendents. Mr. Sessoms may reason that if he keeps throwing things at the wall, at least some will stick.
It is hard to imagine, though, that Mr. Sessoms will ever be accepted inside CUNY. In an intensely moralistic place, he is almost perversely unsentimental and market-oriented. He justifies his initiatives in terms of financial opportunities rather than larger intellectual purposes. "The only thing that matters is money," he says. "If you have a choice between love and money, take money." This is not the kind of clarion call to which academics are prone to respond.
 Ms. Bowen says he represents a whole trend in university management: remaking the university along neo-liberal lines, aligning the university with the market. Public universities are, in fact, increasingly hard-pressed to justify their budgets to a skeptical public. Ms. Bowen believes that Mr. Sessoms represents a phenomenon that CUNY has largely resisted until now.
 In any case, Mr. Sessoms, an ambitious, restless man with a golden resume and a personal story that's hard to trump, may not be long for Queens. Within months after his arrival, he was reported to be on the short list for the presidency of Northeastern University; only after the news leaked out, at the end of the process, did he ask to have his name removed. That incident was the source of a reputation for opportunism that he has never shaken.
 Mr. Sessoms says he has been approached for about 25 college presidencies, and has said he wasn't interested. But asked if he would consider another offer, he smiled roguishly and said, "It depends on the place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allen Sessoms shows a model of Queens College featuring the new biology center, front, to be headed by a celebrated AIDS researcher. (Edward M. Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COLLEGE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (94%); QUEENS COLLEGE (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS COLLEGE; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (94%); QUEENS COLLEGE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (67%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); BOARD CHANGES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (61%); 

PERSON: SESSOMS, ALLEN L (DR); TRAUB, JAMES RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



57 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4360 words

HEADLINE: The New American Consensus;
Government of, by and For the Comfortable

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann; Nicholas Lemann is the national correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly. He has just completed a book about meritocracy in America.

 BODY:
The other day, while Washington was going up in flames, the two candidates for what is probably the most important office at stake in the 1998 elections, the governorship of California, held a debate in Sacramento. Gray Davis, the Democrat, is a veteran liberal politician whose fate it is to be known for the goodness of fit between his first name and his mien. Dan Lungren, the Republican, is a hearty, easy-talking guy whose reputation over the years has been as something close to a movement conservative. The debate, their third in a series of five, had a disorienting quality. The candidates had obviously decided in advance that they were going to "go negative," so they tried to be mean, sarcastic and vicious toward each other.
They huffed and interrupted. Davis made sure to work in a reference to his military service. (Lungren didn't serve.) Lungren made sure to work in a reference to his three children. (Davis is married but childless.) The debate's tonal culmination was Lungren's use of his closing statement to advance a cheerfully out-of-left-field theory about the undetected assonance between the police unions' support of Gray Davis and the notorious incident in which Latrell Sprewell, the basketball player, throttled his coach. 
 But the larger end to which this fiesta of contempt was directed was the elimination of all meaningful differences between the two candidates. This debate, like the two that had preceded it, conformed to the following structure: Candidate A, with a malicious glint in his eye, accuses Candidate B of taking an unpopular position. Candidate B draws himself up self-righteously and protests that, no, in fact his position is actually almost indistinguishable from Candidate A's. Lungren wants to cut taxes on innovative new businesses. Davis wants to also, in a slightly different way. Lungren is for eliminating the car tax, Davis is for reducing the car tax. Davis supports abortion rights. Lungren insists that during the five terms he served in the House of Representatives, "we never once voted on denying a woman the right to have an abortion." Lungren is for the death penalty. Davis, suspect because he used to be Gov. Jerry Brown's chief of staff, insists, "I have always believed in the death penalty." They are both committed environmentalists. They are both for H.M.O. reform. They are both for establishing tough new standards in public education.
Here are the last sentences uttered in the third debate, except for two words, which I'll save for later in this article so that you can guess at them now: "Kids first. Safety first. Jobs first. That's what you'll get with a)Gray Davis or b)Dan Lungren? as Governor of the state of California."
What we've got here is a relatively new but quite powerful working consensus between the political parties on most major issues. It's easy to miss -- consensus is not the subject to which the mind naturally turns at a time when the top item on the national political agenda is Presidential impeachment. Still, it's there. During the midterm elections four years ago, Newt Gingrich's Contract With America, a clear list of 10 items that Republicans were for and Democrats were against, set the tone. This year, Gingrich has notably not produced a successor document.
All over the country, Republicans and Democrats seem to be racing for the center. In New York, the two major-party Senate candidates, Charles Schumer and Alfonse D'Amato, are presenting themselves as pragmatists. Jeb Bush, who lost the Florida Governor's race four years ago, is running again this year as a distinctly more moderate Republican. Even Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina, one of the two or three most conservative members of the United States Senate, is stressing his support for environmentalism and health care reform in his re-election campaign.
Wedge issues aren't cutting the way they used to. Democrats are now against high taxes, welfare, crime and big government. Republicans are for public education, environmentalism, Social Security, Medicare -- and, in most cases, legal abortion. The new consensus has been forged through the heavy (even by the standards of modern American politics) use of public-opinion polling. When candidates talk this fall, you can almost hear the sheaves of poll results rustling offstage -- there's a uniform, finely honed set of positions and rhetorical flourishes that appears in race after race all over the country. Banning assault weapons is good. Public schools are good, but they have to be pulled culturally to the right through a return to discipline and basics. Protecting the environment is good. Protecting Social Security and Medicare is essential. H.M.O.'s are bad. Big tobacco companies are bad. Soft on crime is bad. Welfare is bad. The death penalty is good. Taxes are too high, but not egregiously so. Liberals are bad. Big government and bureaucracy are bad. Deficits are bad.
Although this can be dismissed as a motley collection of the things politicians think voters want to hear in 1998 (which they may not want to in 2000), it's still remarkable. The parties always maintain rough ideological templates meant to be used by their candidates, but it's rare for both parties to have the same template at the same time. (The answer to the question I posed above, by the way, is Dan Lungren, the Republican.) Moreover, behind all the particular points of agreement this fall, something broader and more important is detectable: a newly coherent notion of what government should do and whom it should help -- and what and whom it should ignore.
The modern history of Americans' compact with the Federal Government begins with the Presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Robert Teeter, pollster to Republican Presidents from Nixon through Bush, says: "For most of our history, we've had a broad consensus. The last consensus was the New Deal, which lasted, really, 50 years -- the longest-lasting in our history. There are big, important issues that bring a consensus together, that serve as the glue. The reason it falls apart is, the cause goes away, plus the extreme gets in control."
The cause that generated the New Deal consensus was the Great Depression; the central idea was that government should protect people from the worst vagaries of a market economy. In order to accomplish this new mission, government had to become much, much bigger. In 1933, when Roosevelt took office, the Federal Government had 604,000 civilian employees. In severe deficit because of the Depression, it took in $2 billion in taxes and spent $4.7 billion on programs. In 1945, when Roosevelt died, the Federal Government had 3.8 million civilian employees, took in $50.2 billion and spent $95.2 billion. With the end of the Second World War, those numbers began to drift downward; still, Roosevelt had presided over a wholesale, permanent expansion of the central government that the Republicans did not try to undo.
Cracks began to appear in the New Deal consensus around the time of the 1966 midterm elections -- during the Presidency of Lyndon Johnson, a protege of Roosevelt's who saw himself as having an electoral mandate (the Democratic landslide of 1964) to complete his mentor's work. The "glue," as Teeter puts it, was gone: the Depression was a faded memory, and raw economic fear no longer dominated the mind of the electorate. The civil rights movement and the Vietnam War generated dissension within the Democratic Party, whose improbable base of white Southerners and Northern liberals was becoming increasingly difficult to maintain. Nobody since Johnson has won the Presidency as an unrepentant New Dealer.
But there wasn't a profound demonstration that the New Deal consensus was gone until the election of 1980, which made Ronald Reagan President. In his first inaugural address, Reagan proclaimed: "Government is not the solution to our problem; Government is the problem." The signal couldn't have been clearer. Reagan's main domestic initiative was a big, quick tax cut, which was meant not just to put money into voters' pockets but also to signify that government was going to be reduced.
Reagan was the rare exception to the rule that the ideological wings always lose in American politics. Rather than moving to the center, as politicians usually do, he moved the location of the center in his direction -- that is, to the right. The Democrats, rather than marshaling an all-out response, also moved to the right. All through the Reagan and Bush Administrations, there didn't seem to be an electorally potent counter to Republican rhetoric of opposition to taxes, government and (Newt Gingrich's signature phrase in his younger days) "the liberal welfare state."
Clinton accomplished something remarkable in being elected President in 1992: following three Democratic candidates who were flattened by the Republican argument, he found a way of stating a Democratic case in post-New Deal language. It helped him that the country was in a mild recession and that the cold war had just ended, a pair of circumstances that underscored one of the Democrats' strengths (helping people in hard times) and minimized one of their weaknesses (being the less tough party on defense and foreign affairs).
But there was more than just lucky timing involved. Clinton carefully neutralized each of what had been the Democrats' main vulnerabilities since the Johnson Administration. He wanted to end welfare, he liked the police and he didn't present himself as a liberal do-gooder. ("You never, ever hear Clinton talk about the poor, which every Democrat did for years," Robert Teeter says.) Then Clinton added language and ideas that seemed to offer voters a distinctly different compact from F.D.R.'s. He would "reinvent" government -- that is, by implication, make it more efficient rather than expanding it. He would provide the middle class with health and education programs that they needed and were never going to get from the Republicans. He would cut the deficit and get the economy going.
Because of Clinton's eerie skill at making audiences think he agrees with them, his stance during the campaign was taken to mean different things by different constituencies. The more conservative wing of the Democratic Party, allied with business and the South and associated with the Democratic Leadership Council (of which Clinton had been chairman), saw him as a market-oriented moderate. The liberal wing -- more Northern, more urban, more union, more minority -- saw him as the American version of a Western European social democrat, someone who would offer broad new government benefits programs that would cement the loyalty of another generation of voters to the party.
In the early going, Clinton moved in both directions at once: toward the Democratic Leadership Council by cutting the deficit and toward the social democrats by proposing health insurance for all. The first worked; the second didn't. Even if Clinton didn't want to decide what he was, the political world had decided for him that he was a moderate Democrat. Now that he's too weak to pass any major programs, it seems that he'll go down in history as the Democratic Eisenhower, the President who declined to reverse the political revolution that preceded him. "The Democrats have accepted the market," says Seymour Martin Lipset, the sociologist. "The consensus of today is around a different center, a further right, laissez-faire center."
The Republican landslide in the 1994 elections made it look as if the country had taken another hard turn to the right. In hindsight, though, Gingrich had merely succeeded in capitalizing on the failure of the Clinton health plan, unfairly but with great skill. In 1995, Clinton, with Dick Morris at his side, began exploring ways to present himself as less liberal and the Republicans as scary. By the end of the year, also unfairly but with great skill, he had planted the impression in the public's mind that Gingrich was less than fully dedicated to the huge, popular Medicare program and that nothing the government did was truly safe from him. Gingrich frightened people -- his period of maximum power coincided with the appearance in poll results of a strong new public emotion, fear of excessive change. "It's psycho-social," says Richard Wirthlin, who was Reagan's chief pollster. "Americans are seeking reassurance on their own peace of mind and personal security. One of the most dominant values is: 'I want to feel secure. I want to feel that what I have will endure.' That's what we picked up, about, I'd say, three years ago. These values don't change very quickly. They move fairly slowly. The fact that it has emerged is significant."
Clinton also extensively revised the nuances of his formula from 1992, and in so doing he formulated the consensus that prevails right now. In his 1996 State of the Union Message, he memorably declared, in what sounded like an explicit, intentional echo of Reagan's first inaugural address, "The era of big government is over." The line was originally written with a little brake at the end -- "but we must never go back to the era of every man for himself" -- but that phrase was left on the cutting-room floor, and the public got a picture of liberalism in full retreat. Clinton embraced the cause of balancing the budget as soon as possible. He signed into law the elimination of the unpopular Federal welfare program. And in addition to letting the voters know that he was against the things they were against, he generated a list of things he was for. These were mainly low-cost government initiatives that signaled empathy with middle-class families who felt embattled, in the social rather than economic sense: the V-chip to screen out Internet pornography, extended family leave, school uniforms.
There was a fit between Clinton's political moves and changing social conditions in the country. The 2000 Census will show that, for the first time, a majority of Americans live in the suburbs. Because voter turnout has been falling for decades, particularly in the cities, the electorate in 1992 became majority-suburban before the country as a whole. Two other wholesale changes that Clinton was playing to are the mass entry of married women into the work force since 1970 and the less remarked upon but no less dramatic increase in what economists call "return to education." Today the earnings gap between the high-school and college educated is the biggest it has been since the early 40's. A politics aimed at suburban families who are worried about their children studying hard and staying on course even though neither parent is around to keep an eye on them seems, in retrospect, like the most obvious idea in the world.
Clinton reversed his political fortunes between November 1994 and November 1996. On Election Night in Little Rock two years ago, he exuberantly declared, "The vital American center is alive and well." In his second inaugural address, two months later, he came within range of directly repudiating Reaganism by saying, "Government is not the problem, and government is not the solution."
These were broad (though not grand) formulations. What Clinton had really done was leave his fellow Democratic politicians with a set of positions, not a big idea. One reason he failed to produce a widely usable Democratic slogan was that from the moment he started running for President, he was severely constrained by the rhetorical unpopularity of the word government. "It turned out that a Democrat couldn't talk about government," says Donald Baer, the former White House communications director and a key player in the repositioning of Clinton between 1994 and 1996. "It was a bad word. Clinton came in and relied on a lot of verbal hip fakes, talking about opportunity, responsibility and community. The Republicans, on the other hand, did have a big idea, wholesale opposition to government, but it was beginning to hurt them with the voters, who realized that most of what government did, they approved of and depended upon. So the G.O.P. dropped it and went with a bunch of poll-tested positions, too. Hence the current consensus.
The onset of a crisis, foreign or domestic, could cause the consensus to disintegrate. At the moment, for example, the economic gap between rich and poor is widening, but polls show that voters are hostile to government policies aimed at closing it; in a recession, the class-war theme might reappear in American politics. But to dismiss the consensus as temporary, fragile and patchwork-quilty is to miss something important about it: it does, in fact, have an overarching idea, which nobody has stated memorably enough yet for it to have registered. The idea is that government should serve the ordinary, hard-working individual -- providing safety, public goods like roads and parks and the tools necessary to seek opportunity, like education. It should protect people from unfair or excessive aspects of the marketplace. Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, describes the consensus this way: "Problems are more likely to be solved when people have the resources to solve them on their own. Government ought to do things that provide people with resources to solve problems. There's also a very clear view that government has a referee role to play, enforcing fairness, making sure people with power don't exercise it in an irresponsible way: H.M.O.'s, tobacco companies, polluters."
But that's it. The idea that government is an emblem of the highest, broadest purpose of a nation and should be regarded by the citizenry with loyalty and pride -- that idea is completely outside the consensus. In an article in the premier issue of the Democratic Leadership Council's new magazine, Blueprint, Mark Penn, Clinton's pollster, says that in the 25 years since 1973, the percentage of Americans who agree with the statement, "The best government is the government that governs the least," has nearly doubled, from 32 to 56. Today, Penn says, only 16 percent of Americans agree with the statement, "Government should spend on social programs where necessary, because America is not about leaving every one to fend for himself." Only 12 percent agree with the statement, "Government should solve problems and protect people from adversity." It almost goes without saying that the consensus is one of voters, not the entire citizenry. Polling shows that African-Americans, Latinos and people with no higher education, whose turnout is relatively low, haven't signed on to it.
The consensus represents a national embrace of a kind of one-way libertarianism. Its main assumption is that the government has a very serious obligation to the middle class: it must provide a degree of protection. On the other hand, the middle class is in no way obligated to commit time or money to larger national projects -- anything from military service to solving problems that are off somewhere out of immediate view. (O.K., there's paying taxes, but that's never mentioned in a campaign season.)
The traditional view, that a national government can assume the loyalty and trust of its citizens as it goes about using its resources to do the country's business, doesn't apply in America today. When next we have to do something that requires this view, we'll have to remake the social compact first. Meanwhile, any project that entails government acting in the broad national interest (rather than the narrower interest of the suburban middle class) probably won't get done.
Americans' suspicion of government is really a suspicion of some association the word evokes rather than of the thing itself. When principal (if you measure in dollars and personnel) functions of government -- public education, Social Security, Medicare -- appear threatened, voters rush to their defense. Since 1960, the Federal Government, if you go by such measures as number of employees and budget as a percentage of the gross domestic product, has not fluctuated greatly in size. It didn't become big under Johnson, and it didn't become small under Reagan. The top peacetime income-tax rates peaked during the Eisenhower Administration.
"Big government" is shorthand for a series of developments the public didn't like that didn't much affect the actual size of government. These included a more aggressive role by the courts and regulatory agencies in making policy, and the government's taking on new missions, like the War on Poverty, that didn't cost a lot but were controversial. (It's not irrelevant that the original impulse driving these activities was to engineer a rapid increase in the social and economic status of blacks.) What people really don't want isn't big government; it's aggressively liberal government.
We pay a price, though, for the rhetorical confusion. Because the word government has come to stand for something unpopular, the question of what the real institution should do in the broad sense -- the question, that is, of public purpose or national purpose -- cannot be discussed by campaigning politicians. Garin, the Democratic pollster, says: "Part of the consensus today is the devolution to the individual to the maximum extent possible. Most people in America think most other people are morally deficient. Public policies that depend on the good will of others are hard to sell."
The consensus right now is not to have a consensus about what the country as a whole should be or do.
As a topic, consensus has a curious history. The word was introduced into political discussion in quite a specific way: John Higham, a historian, wrote an article in the February 1959 issue of Commentary called "The Cult of the 'American Consensus."' Higham's article was mainly an attack on a single book, "The Americans: The Colonial Experience," by Daniel J. Boorstin. Consensus was Higham's word, not Boorstin's. The argument Boorstin makes in the book is that Americans have never had fixed ideas about anything: "One of the ways in which American experience liberated the New World, Boorstin wrote, was by freeing men from the notion that every grand institution needed a grand foundation of systematic thought."
Higham thought Boorstin had underplayed the deep-seated conflicts in American history, and turned the country retrospectively into a paradise of cracker-barrel pragmatism. Consensus was the sneering label he put on Boorstin's idea, and it stuck.
"Consensus" has a pacific, positive ring when it appears in newspaper headlines, but in the intellectual world it's a dirty word, denoting artificial cheerfulness and a refusal to face tough, fundamental issues. The consensus school in American history, such as it was, lay in ruins within a few years of the publication of Higham's devastating article. Even now, when politicians try to present themselves as embodying the ideas of consensus intellectuals of the peaceful era before the 1960's, the intellectuals in question usually send up howls of protest and denial. After Clinton's victory speech in 1996, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. complained loudly about the misuse of the title of his 1949 book, "The Vital Center." "I did not mean middle of the road in domestic politics," Schlesinger says. "I regard the middle of the road as the dead center, not the vital center."
There is a final twist. John Higham, the original consensus-hater, began to soften on the idea of consensus soon after writing his famous article. In 1960, he gave a talk on consensus at a historians' convention and found himself upset by the audience's wild, unquestioning enthusiasm for what he had to say. In 1994, 35 years after his Commentary article, Higham published an article in The Journal of American History arguing for consensus history, without using the dreaded term itself: he called on historians to take on "the reconstruction of a genuinely national history, a history of the connections through which state and society have defined one another and dealt with change."
I went to see Higham in Baltimore, where he is a professor emeritus at Johns Hopkins, to find out what he thinks about the consensus we have now. The answer, which he delivered mournfully over crab cakes, is, not much. In the old days, Higham didn't like the idea of an American political consensus because he thought it represented a papering over of diversity and dissent. Now he longs for the kind of consensus that would represent, instead, a national commitment to a public life that revolves around something more than self-protection and distrust. "I'd have a different name for it than consensus," he says. "I think of it as a kind of privatism that excludes and denigrates the public sphere. The emergence of widespread indifference, somewhat flecked with disgust, is the most distinctive phenomenon of the present day. I don't think there's ever been anything like it."
If consensus means a rough set of prevailing views with no particular relation to one another, then we've got one. If it means a working agreement about what we as citizens owe one another and the country as a whole, then we don't have one.
There are national problems almost universally acknowledged, like unacceptably bad urban schools, that politicians just don't have a vocabulary to discuss in anything but vague, bland ways. That isn't the real trouble, though. The real trouble is that if a new problem arises that doesn't fit the current framework of American politics -- government is there to protect me, and I refuse to support its doing anything else -- we won't be able to handle it.
Did you see "Saving Private Ryan" over the summer? It's presented as a glorification of good old-fashioned, white-bread, pre-1960's American values. These values include a willingness to put aside personal concerns to serve other people and a larger cause, and a grumbling but total loyalty to a big government bureaucracy even though it often behaves idiotically. It's nice that we can be nostalgic -- more than nostalgic, moved -- by exposure to the American ethos of a half-century ago, but we ought to understand, too, that it no longer exists.


GRAPHIC: By definition, the family portrait is an artificially sunny moment, captured with a freeze-frame cheerfulness that's hard not to like. Everybody is scrubbed down and dressed up; the dog isn't barking; Grandma is happy; the furniture and future are gleaming; all the normal tensions of modern life are banished. On the pages that follow, we've assembled a gallery of work by family portrait photographers, taken in locales as diverse as Florida, New Mexico and Alaska, sometimes by people who have taken family pictures for several generations. (Like Ken Whitmire, page 40, who shot his picture in the appropriately named town of Sunnyside, Wash.) Taken together, they represent a portrait of America -- as it wants to be seen.
 
The Lohrs, Columbus, Neb. (James L. Frieze); The Watsons, Los Angeles (Sae Lee); The Camerons, Anchorage (Marie-Louise Wolfe); The Pappases, Key Biscayne, Fla. (J.A. Cabrera); The Brands, Germantown, Tenn. (Sandra Stroh); The Van de Graafs, Sunnyside, Wash. (Ken Whitmire/Whitmire & Wolfe); The Wallaces, Washington (Jim Johnson); The Lessards, Grand Forks, N.D. (Bruce Lysne); The Nakagawas, Albuquerque, N.M. (Judd Bradley/Kim Jew Photography); The Vincentis, Pasadena, Calif. (Michael Glen Taylor)
Photos: How Americans See Themselves A Nation's Studio Portrait

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CHILDREN (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); TAX LAW (62%); ABORTION (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: LEMANN, NICHOLAS DANIEL E LUNGREN (89%); JERRY BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1998



58 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: The Next Trouble Spot in the Balkans: Montenegro

BYLINE: By MIKE O'CONNOR 

DATELINE: BUDVA, Montenegro

 BODY:
As the white launch cut around the breakwater and made for the deep waters of the Adriatic Sea, the wind tangled a Yugoslav flag flying from the rigging. Krsta Niklacevic, who said he was on his way to help his elderly father bring in fish for their restaurant, leapt to clear the tangle and set the flag flying proudly again.
"As a Serb, I love Yugoslavia," he said. "But I am the biggest Montenegrin patriot I know, and Montenegro is through with being dominated by an evil government." 
 The statement captured the complexity and danger of the newest flash point in the Balkans, Montenegro. Here, the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, is being challenged by people who are familiar with his cunning and for the most part have no ethnic or religious quarrel to pick with Serbia, by far the larger of the two republics that make up Yugoslavia.
Defying Mr. Milosevic, many Montenegrins, including government officials, say they hope to create an open and democratic society as an example of how all Yugoslavs should be able to live.
But to achieve that, they are falling back on a tradition of smuggling. Officials who support Montenegro's President, Milo Djukanovic -- a former ally of Mr. Milosevic who turned against him and won election in this small republic of 630,000 people last fall -- argue that this is the only way to subsidize a government cut off financially by Belgrade.
Senior officials say about a third of the government's budget comes from fees charged to smugglers who operate from here.
The smuggling poses a problem for Western countries that praise Montenegrins for challenging Mr. Milosevic. "We don't have much information on that," one Western diplomat said when asked about smuggling, and then quickly changed the subject.
At the helm of his boat, with the centuries-old walled port of Budva slipping out of view, Mr. Niklacevic said, "Why do I oppose Milosevic? Our tourist season used to be six or seven months long, now nothing."
"That is his fault," he said, referring to the international contempt and isolation that Mr. Milosevic's policies have reaped. "Do I need another reason?"
He looked toward the horizon. One hundred twenty miles beyond lies Italy, the destination of the speedboats that smuggle cigarettes from warehouses in Montenegro to the European market.
"Milosevic sent the navy out there to stop the boats," Mr. Niklacevic said with a broad grin, "but the smugglers are too clever. The Italian police can't stop them either."
Once a proud kingdom, though smaller than many American counties, Montenegro runs down rough mountains to the Adriatic. Its people have their own history, and many want to reverse the decision made in 1918 to join Yugoslavia.
If that happens, it will be the end of what is left of the Yugoslav Federation. Since Mr. Milosevic came to dominate Serbia in 1987, it has lost Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Macedonia as federal partners. Now Yugoslavia could lose Montenegro, and even the province of Kosovo, the cradle of Serbia's history.
"We in Montenegro no longer want to live in an autocratic society," President Djukanovic said in an interview. "Milosevic wants absolute and uncontrolled power."
Mr. Djukanovic, 36, and other Montenegrins say they would like to remain part of Yugoslavia, but not if Mr. Milosevic is in charge.
After Mr. Djukanovic's narrow election victory over a Milosevic ally last year, Montenegro began to ignore federal laws and became independent in practice. "The only influence the federation has is the army and the currency," Mr. Djukanovic said, "and many army officers are very helpful to us."
The other republics that left Yugoslavia were places where non-Serbs were a majority. But Montenegro is mostly populated by people who share Serbian traditions. Indeed, Mr. Milosevic himself hails from a Montenegrin family, although he was born and reared in Serbia.
Not all Montenegrins back a fight with Mr. Milosevic. Some think their republic is too small to survive alone. Many consider themselves Serbs first and Montenegrins second and are inclined to keep the current union with Serbia. Many do not want to abandon the idea that Yugoslavia, though troubled, can be saved.
But even those Montenegrins who doubt that conflict with Mr. Milosevic is wise say they are paying the price for his mistakes.
About 12 percent of the people in Montenegro are refugees from the wars that accompanied Yugoslavia's breakup, most recently from the conflict in Kosovo. In addition, between retirees, the unemployed, those working for antiquated state-owned companies and those working directly for the government, more than half of the people in Montenegro depend on the virtually bankrupt government for their livelihood.
Western countries say international institutions cannot lend Montenegro money, because it is legally still part of Yugoslavia.
At a sidewalk cafe in Podgorica, Montenegro's capital, Nena Vukalovic, 43, and her young daughter sat in the sun with friends. "This is a kind of experimental zone where we are trying to see how we can step back into Europe, but with a democracy and a modern economy," Mrs. Vukalovic said.
"See the people at this cafe?" she said. "They are Muslim and Serbs and even Albanians, and they are sitting together at the same tables. Montenegro is an example of what all Yugoslavia could become, and that means it is a threat to Milosevic."
While in Serbia the government is clamping down on independent media and foreign broadcasts, the Montenegrin government's own stations broadcast reports by the Voice of America and the BBC.
"It's 100 percent better than in Serbia," said Dusan Masic, a field supervisor for the Association of Independent Electronic Media, an organization promoting press freedom in Yugoslavia. "But you won't find many stories criticizing Djukanovic. You won't find any stories about crime or corruption."
The reluctance to report on crime stems in part from the republic's unorthodox source of revenue: smuggling.
"It's cigarettes for the most part," said a senior official, speaking on condition of anonymity. "Private companies ship the goods here, to government warehouses on the coast. Then the shippers' boats get the goods to Italy."
While still a Milosevic ally, President Djukanovic oversaw much of the smuggling that kept Yugoslavia going when it was under international sanctions from 1992 to 1995, foreign diplomats say. But he rejected the idea that his government was knowingly aiding smugglers today.
"What happens is that merchandise comes into Montenegro and continues on to other destinations," he said. "We charge a tax for that. You could consider it a normal tax on commercial transactions."
The Minister of Social Welfare, Predrag Drecun, said Montenegro would collapse without "transit taxes" from smugglers. "What else can we do?" he said. "The Government must have money to avoid anarchy."

GRAPHIC: Map of showing the location of Budva, Montenegro: Montenegrins in Budva are critical of Yugoslavia's President.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: YUGOSLAV FEDERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: YUGOSLAV FEDERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTENEGRO; SERBIA; YUGOSLAVIA; MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; SMUGGLING SMUGGLING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); COUNTIES (70%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); O'CONNOR, MIKE; DJUKANOVIC, MILO (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



59 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Low Turnout? Try Free Food and Agitators

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
TODAY, millions of New Yorkers are preparing to exercise their precious constitutional right not to vote. Turnout in the city, traditionally lower than in the rest of the state and the nation, is expected to be no better tomorrow, with perhaps only a third of the electorate voting. This is entirely understandable to anyone who has gone to the polls here.
To vote in New York City is to be transported for a moment, a very long moment, to the old Soviet Union. Under the supervision of famously inefficient apparatchiks, you wait in a slow line to use a machine that appears to have been produced circa 1950 at the Leningrad Proletariat Typewriter and Tractor Works. Then you flip its switches, knowing that the ruling party has already decided the outcome. 
 In most districts in the city, the Democratic Party is guaranteed victory. Except for statewide contests and an occasional mayoral election, the Republicans generally offer only token competition, and in some judicial races, they even endorse the same candidate as the Democrats. No wonder most voters prefer to stay home.
But that doesn't mean we must resign ourselves to low turnout. Confronted with these same conditions, Soviet officials regularly boasted of elections with turnout of 99 percent. And their techniques, fortunately, are still remembered by Soviet emigres living near the boardwalk in Brighton Beach. On the eve of the election, several of them offered guidance for improving turnout in New York:
Start with the polite, personal approach. Instead of being turned off by nasty television ads, Soviet citizens got friendly reminders to vote from a neighbor who was officially designated the district agitator. It is the kind of job that many New Yorkers are equipped to do, especially building superintendents.
"The agitator had to visit everyone in the neighborhood before the election," recalled Michail Khazan, an automotive engineer who occasionally served as an agitator in Kiev. "You had to anticipate problems. If a man told me that he wasn't going to vote unless someone fixed his leaking roof, I would get the residential economic committee to fix it."
Simplify absentee voting. Ailing Soviets could do takeout voting, thanks to election officials who would go to homes bearing ballots and a ballot box. Soviet travelers were free to vote anywhere. Boris Talis, who was a mechanical engineer in Odessa, remembers once voting in Siberia. "I had no idea who the candidates were in the Siberian elections," Mr. Talis said, "but voting was simple because there was only one choice for each position." Tourists here would have a similarly easy time voting.
Add perks at the polls. At Soviet polling places, there was usually free food and drink, and sometimes a full-fledged party with an orchestra and dancing. "Near my old home," said Marina Radyushkin, a financial analyst from Moscow, "they put the voting booths right near a counter with foods that were usually impossible to get, like sausages. You could buy them almost without standing in line, but you couldn't reach the counter unless you went through the voting booth."
Keep up interest throughout Election Day. Freed from the distractions of close races and exit polls, Soviet television and radio stations focused on turnout statistics, maintaining suspense throughout the day as they reported how many voters in each district had voted thus far. The reports appealed to the competitive instincts of voters -- or at least to the self-preservation instincts of the agitators.
"Usually, 90 percent of the people would vote by noon," Mr. Khazan said, "and then the agitator would visit the remaining ones. I was not allowed to go home until all the people on my list voted. Sometimes, I had to go back six or eight times to the same person's apartment." When the going got tough, he tried for pity. "I would look exhausted and say: 'Please vote. Like you, I have a family. I have children waiting for me. I beg of you, let me go home.' "
Keep the ballot simple and negative. If Soviet voters opposed a Communist Party candidate, they could draw a line through his name; otherwise, they did nothing. Besides simplifying voting for the faithful -- you could vote the Communist line just by dropping a blank ballot into the box -- this system gave disgruntled citizens a chance to vote specifically against a candidate.
"The party's candidate would still win, no matter how many people crossed his name out," Mr. Talis said, "but it gave voters a chance to embarrass him. I think many New Yorkers would find this feature useful for their politicians."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (54%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; USSR (FORMER SOVIET UNION); UNITED STATES (96%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (54%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; VOTER BEHAVIOR ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (75%); MAYORS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (62%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN BORIS TALIS (70%); MICHAIL KHAZAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



60 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES;
Where the Candidates Stand

 BODY:

B. Thomas Golisano
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Centerpiece of his campaign is an attack on Mr. Pataki for raising state debt, and says he would reduce it. Criticizes Mr. Pataki's use of financial incentives to business, saying they should be linked to guarantees of job retention over a specific period of years. Advocates elimination of Thruway tolls. Says state spending should be reduced, but does not say how.
 
EDUCATION -- Supports charter schools. Says schools should be made to meet performance standards and reduce administrative costs. Advocates a freeze on public college tuition, and says the colleges should focus more on computer technology. Says schools should expand occupational training for students who are not academically oriented and are likely to drop out.
 
CRIME -- Says the state should spend much more money on drug education and treatment, as an alternative to prison for nonviolent drug offenders. Supports the death penalty. Does not support stronger gun-control laws. Criticizes the current justice system as putting too many people in prison, but does not say what the alternative is.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Advocates term limits as the best way to limit the financial advantage of incumbents. But does not support restrictions on contributions, soft money or transfers from one committee to another.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Says he will conduct a thorough investigation of Medicaid to find areas where spending could be cut. Opposes forcing health insurers to cover contraceptives. Advocates expansion of medical savings accounts for people to help cover health care costs.
 
George E. Pataki
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Has consistently worked to lower taxes, most importantly those on income, property and business profits. Says he will continue to cut taxes in a second term, but does not give specifics. Aggressively promotes the use of financial incentives like tax breaks, loans, low-cost electric power to retain employers in New York State and to attract new ones.
 
EDUCATION -- Signed into law state program to make kindergarten and prekindergarten classes available in every community, and to lower elementary class sizes by 2002. Strong advocate of charter schools, specialized schools that operate outside the usual bureaucratic restraints, which are opposed by teacher unions. Has agreed to major increases in education spending, but vetoed money to increase teachers' salaries and speed up school construction. Cut subsidies for public colleges and imposed a $750-a-year tuition increase, but also won a $3 billion capital improvement program for the campuses.
 
CRIME -- Won re-enactment of the death penalty, tougher penalties for violent crimes and sharp limitations on parole. Advocates tougher sentences for juvenile offenders. Enacted state's first program of sending drug offenders to treatment rather than prison, but it is small in scope. Has said he favors easing state's strict drug-possession penalties. Supports continued prison construction.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Has said he dislikes the current system, but has not said how he would change it. Disapproves of advocacy groups independent of campaigns advertising for or against a candidate, and of wealthy people running for office with their own money, but says he does not think either one can be restrained legally. Has not taken a position on whether the state's high contribution limits should be lower, or whether soft money and transfers from one political committee to another should be limited. Opposes public financing.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Has cut back Medicaid, the health insurance program for the poor, but has expanded health care programs for poor children. Has not said what he would do to help the three million New Yorkers without medical coverage.
 
Betsy McCaughey Ross
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Favors mandating lower utility rates, greater tax credits for investment in research, and large-scale government investment in training adults for high-tech jobs.
 
EDUCATION -- Was one of the prime forces behind the universal kindergarten and prekindergarten program signed by Mr. Pataki, now being carried out. Proposes an aggressive reading program for children in the early grades, and earlier testing to catch those children who cannot read.
 
CRIME -- Supports capital punishment. Advocates laws requiring trigger locks on handguns, and laws holding adults legally responsible when their children cause injury or death with a gun. Supports greater use of drug treatment as an alternative to incarceration.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Favors banning soft money, and limiting contributions by special interests, particularly health insurers.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Advocates giving patients the right to appeal to an independent panel of experts when their insurers deny coverage for a treatment, and says a law enacted this year to do that does not go far enough. Supports similar appeals system to obtain coverage for experimental treatment of people who are gravely ill. Says law should be changed to allow patients to sue health insurers for denial of coverage.
 
Peter F. Vallone
 
ECONOMY AND TAXES -- Voted several times in the 1980's for higher taxes, and was a prime force behind a 1991 city income tax increase to expand the Police Department. But has worked frequently since then to lower taxes, and led the way this year in rescinding the 1991 increase. Says the state will have trouble paying for Mr. Pataki's property tax cuts, but would not repeal them. Says surpluses should be used to pay off state debts. Calls the Governor's tax breaks to companies "corporate welfare." Major economic development idea is to have the state give preference to New York companies in awarding contracts.
 
EDUCATION -- Says public college tuition should be cut in half for students who maintain a B average. Advocates state-financed, educational after-school program at every school, but is vague about how to pay for it. Supports effort to make kindergarten and prekindergarten available in every community, and to lower elementary-school class sizes. Says the state budget surplus should have been used to speed up those efforts, rather than to pay for tax cuts. Says he does not oppose charter schools, but would want guarantees that other schools would not get less money and that teachers' job security would not be threatened.
 
CRIME -- Supports the death penalty, and has backed tougher penalties for serious crimes. Says low-level drug offenders should be allowed to enter treatment instead of prison. Questions need for new prisons. Sponsored 1991 law that increased city income tax to pay for Police Department's expansion.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Has proposed for the state a system like the one he initiated in the city, which includes spending limits and mandatory debates for candidates who accept it. Supports much lower limits on individual contributions to state races, tight restrictions on soft money and transfers from one political committee to another.
 
HEALTH CARE -- Advocates government-subsidized health care for all, saying it is the only way to insure the three million New Yorkers without any coverage, but is unclear on how to pay for it. Says the state should relieve local governments of their Medicaid costs, but again does not say how to pay for it.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FINANCES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); PRISONS (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); SENTENCING (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); PAROLE (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); VETO (72%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (71%); TERM LIMITS (71%); JUVENILE CRIME (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (68%); GUN CONTROL (67%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (64%); INSURANCE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (60%); TEACHER UNIONS (60%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (54%); CONTRACEPTION (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GOLISANO, B THOMAS; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); MCCAUGHEY ROSS, BETSY (LT GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



61 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: New Chill in China

 BODY:
A few months back there was reason to hope that Chinese authorities were modestly expanding the limits of acceptable political debate. Those expectations have been dashed by a new burst of arrests, detentions and censorship.
In recent days, Government agents closed down an independent think tank that was testing those new limits, confiscated its founder's passport, and halted circulation of a book of essays proposing mild political reforms. Word also came that a Chinese scientist who has lived in the United States since 1989 and written about Chinese military issues was arrested and charged with divulging state secrets when he returned home for a visit earlier this year. The scientist, Hua Di, told friends that he had been assured he ran no risk of arrest. 
 These are indications of a disturbing slide back toward repression. President Clinton, after speaking out repeatedly for human rights and democracy on his visit to China last summer, should now make plain his disappointment over the crackdown.
Chinese intellectuals and activists are not yet being hounded as ruthlessly as they were in the years after the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement. But Jiang Zemin's approach to opening up political debate is less than advertised and not enough to meet the needs of China's rapidly modernizing society. Market liberalization, the formula China's leadership has chosen to assure robust economic growth, requires a loosening of political controls over private life. People must have the freedom to debate and challenge Government policies and need reliable legal protections that cannot be overturned on official whim.
Under Deng Xiaoping, and now under Mr. Jiang, Beijing's rulers have insisted on maintaining many of the worst attributes of a Communist police state. Until Mr. Jiang responds more constructively to the Chinese people's demands for greater political as well as economic freedom, China's progress will be blighted and its relations with the United States will be strained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EDITORIALS POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



62 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Global Warming Treaty Resuming Today

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
International negotiators will resume talks on Monday in Buenos Aires over details in the treaty to fight global warming, but with their expectations sharply lowered.
Last year in Kyoto, Japan, more than 150 nations hammered out a far-reaching agreement for steep reductions in emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases by industrialized countries in the next 10 to 15 years. 
 They also agreed, in principle, to establish a system to allow the sale or trade of emissions permits between countries and to do more to bring developing countries into the effort, two key demands made by the United States. In theory, trading emissions credits would lessen the overall cost of reducing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by letting one country pay another to reduce emissions to meet global targets.
But there has been little progress since the Kyoto Protocol was approved. And it now appears highly unlikely that an agreement on the details will be reached in time for the United States Senate to vote on ratification before the Presidential elections in 2000. The Kyoto Protocol continues to face substantial opposition among major American energy producers and consumers, who say it would be too costly.
Treaty supporters in this country, acknowledging the slow pace of negotiations, have begun to emphasize steps that can be taken before mandatory emissions restrictions go into effect. They want Congress to guarantee that companies voluntarily reducing emissions of waste industrial gases believed to be a factor in global warming will receive credit for the actions when a treaty finally takes shape.
Signaling the lowered expectations, Stuart E. Eizenstat, the senior American negotiator, cautioned that the Administration's first objective is to avoid what he called "backsliding" by other nations on the agreement that the United States brokered last year.
In Kyoto, the Clinton Administration agreed to cut United States emissions over the next 10 to 15 years to a level 7 percent below 1990's emissions -- if international trading of emissions credits is allowed. That would let the United States meet a big part of its obligation by paying other countries to reduce their emissions more than the treaty requires.
European nations are calling for limits on how much a country could rely on emissions trading to meet its treaty obligations. But Mr. Eizenstat said: "I want to drive home as strongly as I can that we adamantly oppose efforts by the European Union or others to set arbitrary limits on trading. That is not consistent with either the letter or the spirit of Kyoto, and it would impose unsustainable costs on the U.S. economy."
After Kyoto, the parties to the treaty were also expected to work out what roles the developing nations would accept and what aid the industrial powers would provide them.
Big developing nations are expected to overtake the United States in emissions of greenhouse gases sometime in the next century. But many developing countries still are resisting commitments to reduce their emissions until they see action by the developed countries like the United States, which produces a quarter of the world's greenhouse gases.
Some developing nations -- even China, which at Kyoto was skeptical of measures to increase the role of developing nations -- are said to be intrigued by the "clean development mechanism" included in the protocol. It would funnel money and technology to energy efficiency projects in developing countries, letting industrialized nations take some of the credit for the resulting reductions in emissions. But the details of this, too, remain to be resolved.
Another source of delay is scientific uncertainty over how to count deforestation and reforestation in each country's contribution to the atmosphere's carbon dioxide. Growing trees absorb carbon dioxide, storing the carbon in wood and releasing oxygen. But the treaty partners will not decide how to score forestry until a science panel reports in about two years.
In the next two weeks, negotiators are expected to do little more than to agree on a pace for further talks and studies.
"I think a success at Buenos Aires would be a work plan and timetable," Melinda Kimble, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for International Environmental Issues, said at a recent briefing for foreign reporters.
Christopher Flavin, an energy expert at the Worldwatch Institute, an environmental research organization, said: "The Kyoto Protocol has been moving forward more slowly than most people had hoped for. The number of new, complicated issues added in the six months before the Kyoto Protocol was negotiated created a level of negotiating complexity that I fear has got us to the point that this protocol is in real danger."
But advocates are pressing industrial companies to reduce their emissions anyway. In Congress, a bipartisan group has introduced legislation that would guarantee that those who act soon will be given financial credits under any final agreement, whether it applies only in the United States or around the world.
Last week, members of the President's Council on Sustainable Development, made up of industry, government and citizen groups, also endorsed steps to give credit for voluntary early actions to reduce emissions.
Several big companies, including British Petroleum, United Technologies and Du Pont, have already pledged to cut their emissions and have begun to urge Congress to approve credits for early actions.
Even industry groups like the Global Climate Coalition, which opposes the Kyoto Protocol, are supporting the Administration's insistence on unfettered trading. "If emission caps are ever imposed, these market tools will be absolutely necessary to lessen high economic burdens placed on our citizens," said Connie Holmes, the organization's chairwoman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: KYOTO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (73%); KYOTO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; TREATIES; AIR POLLUTION EMISSIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (68%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



63 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: TAX PROPOSALS;
In New Jersey, Tax Increases Get a 2d Look

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: WEST WINDSOR, N.J., Nov. 1

 BODY:
New Jersey voters nearly ousted Gov. Christine Todd Whitman last year partly because they were unhappy about paying the highest property tax rates in the nation.
Yet on Election Day, 50 towns and 7 counties will vote on plans to increase property taxes, and the state's voters will consider a $1 billion statewide borrowing plan -- all to help preserve rapidly dwindling farmland and woodlands from development. 
 But there is hardly a peep of opposition, even from the state's antitax groups and staunchest fiscal conservatives.
"This is really important," said Sam Perilli, state chairman of United Taxpayers of New Jersey, one of the antitax groups.
"We are the most densely populated state in the nation, and we are running out of space here," Mr. Perilli said. "I believe that the average New Jersey citizen understands that you got to have green around you. People are also beginning to realize that development is a tax liability for towns, not an asset, because you have to build schools and hire more police officers. And that makes property taxes go up."
Mr. Perilli said his support for a 2-cent property tax increase to preserve open space in his hometown of Cedar Grove in Essex County caused members of an anti-tax group based in Washington to call and scold him.
"They said, 'What are you doing up there?' " Mr. Perilli recalled. "I told them to put someone on the phone who knew what they were talking about, who knew that preserving open space saves taxpayers' money."
In five other states -- Georgia, New Mexico, Florida, Oregon and Arizona -- voters are also considering statewide ballot questions, either borrowing plans or tax increases, to help set aside open space. And dozens of counties and towns across the country have similar questions on the ballot, said Phyllis Myers, president of State Resource Strategies, a company based in Washington that tracks state and local open-space ballot measures.
During the last two years, Ms. Myers said, voters from Austin, Tex., to Monroe County, Pa., have approved more than 100 local ballot initiatives, a reflection of the increasing concern about the effect of the rapid pace of development on traffic congestion, public schools and property taxes.
"These were grass-roots efforts that are gaining political support because people are beginning to make the connections about what is happening around them," Ms. Myers said.
In New York, Suffolk County voters will be asked on Tuesday to approve a $62 million borrowing plan to help purchase land or development rights. In addition, voters in the five towns on the eastern end of Long Island will be asked to approve a real estate transfer tax increase to help protect open space.
State and local officials say voters are also beginning to recognize that raising taxes or borrowing money to preserve open space now can help keep down property tax rates in the future.
"We are building a school a year," said Carole A. Carson, the Mayor of West Windsor Township, here in Mercer County, which has grown rapidly in the last two decades. "If we buy the land, we don't have to build thousands of new schools."
In the last decade alone, 2,400 new homes have risen here on 2,700 acres of what had been farms and woods, prompting local residents to approve one of the first property tax increases dedicated solely to open space preservation.
The tax is now 2 cents on every $100 of assessed property value, and voters will be asked to increase that to 7 cents. In addition, Mercer County is seeking approval for a 2-cent increase to be used to pay for open space purchases across the county.
"There is tremendous support for it," Ms. Carson said. "This will allow us to control development and maintain some of the agricultural business and character."
In Georgia, prominent business leaders, as well as conservationists, are campaigning for a statewide ballot measure that would increase a real estate transfer tax to create a state fund to acquire and preserve environmentally fragile or historically important areas. The tax increase would generate about $32 million a year.
Sam A. Williams, president of the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, said many business leaders supported the measure because they recognized that preserving open space would improve the quality of life, which means it is important for economic development.
"It is a requirement for our business success," Mr. Williams said. "More and more companies we talk to say that quality of life is the No. 1 factor they consider when relocating their companies. So open space, and recreation, is all extraordinarily important to our success."
Governor Whitman tapped into growing discontent about the pace of development when she made preserving open space and managing suburban sprawl a top priority of her administration's second term this year. Her plan to preserve one million acres in the coming decade -- half the remaining open space in the state -- is considered one of the nation's most ambitious efforts.
The statewide ballot measure has bipartisan support. United States Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, joined Mrs. Whitman this week in campaigning in Hunterdon County to help draw attention to the ballot question.
Mrs. Whitman had first recommended asking voters to approve a 4-cent increase in the state's gasoline tax to pay for the open space program, but state lawmakers, and Mr. Perilli, balked. Legislative leaders maintained that a gasoline tax increase should be used for transportation purposes only, but they did agree to the Governor's next recommendation, letting voters decide whether they wanted to borrow the money. Under the plan, the state would dedicate $98 million annually from existing state tax revenue to pay for the $1 billion borrowing over 30 years. The total cost is estimated to exceed $2.5 billion.
Since 1961, New Jersey voters have approved nine bond referendums that have raised $1.39 billion to help protect more than 400,000 acres from development. In addition, 53 towns and 13 of the state's 21 counties have floated bonds or dedicated property tax revenue to set aside open space from development.
Governor Whitman and members of a coalition working to support the ballot measure say they are optimistic about the ballot question's fate. But Michael F. Catania, the executive director of the Nature Conservancy of New Jersey, said he was somewhat concerned about a low turnout, and about the effect it might have on the statewide and local ballot measures.
"We all worry that people are just kind of disgusted and don't want to hear about politics and government, and that could mean low voter turnout," Mr. Catania said. "Quite honestly, that is our biggest concern. I think it will win, but we have to get people out to vote."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED TAXPAYERS OF NEW JERSEY

ORGANIZATION: UNITED TAXPAYERS OF NEW JERSEY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTIONS; AGRICULTURE; PROPERTY TAXES; REFERENDUMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LAND USE POLICIES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BONDS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; PERILLI, SAM CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



64 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Negotiations Resume Today

 BODY:
With the start of the season still in the balance, the National Basketball Association's commissioner, David Stern, and his legal team are scheduled to meet today with Billy Hunter, the union's executive director, and his legal team in Manhattan.
The two sides are trying to seize some of last week's momentum at the bargaining table, where both parties made concessions and agreed on the loose framework of an economic plan. 
 Whether they will come to an agreement in principle in the next couple of days may depend on whether the owners and the players make major concessions on revenue distribution.
According to the league, player salaries accounted for 57 percent of the owners' basketball-related income a year ago. The union has proposed a 60-40 split, while the owners have proposed a 50-50 ratio. Agreeing how to limit the top salaries in the league is also a stumbling block.
"If the owners come up to 60 percent this week, we'll start the season Dec. 1," a union official said on condition of anonymity.
The numbers for both sides are said to be flexible. But given that 2 or 3 percentage points can represent hundreds of millions of dollars for either side over the life of a new agreement, both the owners and the players have several hours of negotiating ahead. Full bargaining teams from each side are scheduled to meet on Wednesday.
Tomorrow was supposed to be the league's opening night. Instead, the first month of the season has been eliminated because of the four-month-old labor dispute, and more cancellations are certain unless an agreement is reached by the weekend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (66%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LOCKOUTS (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); ATHLETES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); 

PERSON: DAVID STERN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



65 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Asserts It Will Consider Raids Unless Iraq Backs Down

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration said today that it would consider military strikes against Iraq if President Saddam Hussein does not back down from his decision to halt all cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors.
President Clinton said that the Iraqi move, announced this weekend, was a "clear violation" of United Nations Security Council resolutions and that "from my point of view, we should keep all our options open." 
 The threat of military strikes was made more directly by Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen, who said unilateral American military action against Iraq "has always been an option that we could pursue."
As he arrived home after cutting short a trip to Asia because of the latest in a series of crises involving arms inspections in Iraq, Mr. Cohen told reporters at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland that "everybody is getting weary of dealing with Saddam Hussein."
Administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that no military action was imminent, and that none was being actively considered for now.
But they said that if Iraq does not reverse its decision and allow inspections to resume, a military response would be considered far more seriously than it was in August, when Iraq imposed a more limited ban on spot inspections of its weapons sites.
In August, the Administration was notably cautious in discussing even the possibility of military action.
Officials said Iraq's actions on Saturday suggested that it had decided to provoke a far more serious crisis with the United Nations and the United States, and that Baghdad might intend to force teams of arms inspectors out of the country and bar virtually all international surveillance of its weapons programs.
"If Saddam means what he says this time, a military strike would be prominent among our list of options," a senior Administration official said. "This is a different, more serious situation than we faced last summer."
Richard Butler, the chief United Nations weapons inspector, said in an interview on CNN today that Iraq's decision to end all cooperation was "truly serious." Iraq, he said, is "in full-scale confrontation with the Security Council now."
Appearing on CNN from Baghdad, an Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, said Baghdad had decided to halt its cooperation out of frustration over the failure of the United Nations to lift crippling economic sanctions imposed on Iraq in 1991 at the end of the Persian Gulf war. The lifting of the sanctions has been been tied to Iraq's cooperation in the weapons inspection program.
"When the sanctions are not lifted, why should we go on working with Unscom?" he said, using the acronym for the United Nations Special Commission, which is charged with disarming Iraq. "We are not gambling, and we are not seeking confrontation. We are just protecting our rights. We have a full right to lifting the sanctions."
In recent months, the United States has been eager to portray Iraq's efforts to hinder weapons inspections as a struggle between Iraq and the United Nations, not Iraq and the United States.
And today, Mr. Cohen suggested that the pressure was on the United Nations and Secretary General Kofi Annan to resolve the latest crisis. Mr. Annan brokered a deal in February that ended a threat of American air strikes after Iraq agreed to provide inspectors with unlimited access to suspected weapons sites.
"Kofi Annan should be concerned because his credibility and that of the Security Council is on the line," Mr. Cohen said today. "Everyone in the Security Council should be concerned."
He acknowledged, however, that this showdown, like so many in the past with Iraq, might have to be resolved in the end through the threat of American military force.
Asked if a unilateral American strike would be considered, Mr. Cohen said, "We prefer to act through allies, and hopefully that will be the case if we have to take action at all." But he said unilateral action was a possibility. "We always have that capability," he said.
The United States maintains a large military presence near Iraq, including a fleet of more than 200 Air Force and Navy warplanes, an aircraft carrier and other warships capable of firing long-range Tomahawk cruise missiles.
Mr. Cohen attended a White House meeting late today with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright; Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser; George J. Tenet, the Director of Central Intelligence, and other senior officials to discuss the latest Iraqi moves.
After the meeting, aides said the Administration was closely monitoring the situation in Iraq but expected no decision on a American response immediately, and certainly not before Congressional elections on Tuesday. "The President's advisers reiterated that all options remain on the table," said David C. Leavy, a spokesman for the National Security Council.
Senior Administration officials said they were heartened by the tough language contained in a Security Council statement adopted on Saturday that described the Iraqi action as a "flagrant violation" of United Nations resolutions, and by the quick condemnation of Iraq by France and Russia, two nations that had pushed for more lenient treatment of Iraq.
"Clearly the confrontational approach Iraq has taken has left even its erstwhile supporters with little to say in their defense, and we are finding increasing unity in the Council," said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman. "This grave error that Saddam Hussein has committed has unified the international community in opposition to his policies and practices, which is very important."
He said Ms. Albright was expected to speak by telephone today with Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine of France and Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia about Iraq.
Other officials said the Administration's decision earlier this year to resist threats of American military action against Iraq in all but the most serious confrontations with the Iraqi Government was now paying dividends and could make it easier ultimately to gather international support for air strikes.
"We took a lot of heat earlier this year for what was perceived to be a tactical adjustment in our policy," a senior Administration official said. "But we knew that the more reasonable we were over the last few months, the greater the chance that countries like France and others would support tougher and tougher measures against Iraq if it took a step like the one it just took."
In his interview today with the American Urban Radio network, Mr. Clinton said President Hussein's latest moves were "a clear violation of the U.N. Security Council resolutions."
Mr. Clinton, who was interviewed in Baltimore, where he was campaigning for midterm elections, said he was "very pleased that the U.N. Security Council, including some people that I think have been a little tolerant with him in the past, strongly condemned what he did."
"From my point of view," he said, "we should keep all our options open, examine the nature of the action and where we are, and then do what's best for the integrity of the United Nations and the interest, the security interests, of the people of the United States." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



66 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: A THIRD-PARTY CANDIDATE;
Golisano May Lag in Polls, But His Stock Is Way Ahead

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 1

 BODY:
B. Thomas Golisano, a wealthy Rochester businessman, is spending $20 million of his fortune on a third-party campaign for Governor that nobody seems to think he can win.
Whether he does or not, Mr. Golisano's decision to run may turn out to have been another smart investment. During the campaign, the stock price of Mr. Golisano's payroll processing company, Paychex Inc., has jumped, just as it did when he ran for governor in 1994. 
 This summer, Forbes magazine called Mr. Golisano, Paychex's founder and chief executive, one of the 400 wealthiest Americans, with a net worth of about $800 million. And since Aug. 24, one week after Mr. Golisano's campaign began advertising, Paychex stock has risen 26 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has stood nearly unchanged. That has added about $200 million on paper to Mr. Golisano's personal assets, far exceeding the sum he is spending on his Independence Party candidacy.
Asked what correlation there was between his campaign and the price of Paychex stock, Mr. Golisano said: "None."
"We've had 28 consecutive quarters where earnings growth has been over 36 percent," he said last week in a telephone interview, maintaining that the stock had risen simply because the company was a good investment.
The stock price has climbed steadily since the company went public in 1983, consistently beating the market. But the margins are usually not as wide as in the last 10 weeks, when Mr. Golisano's ads have been an unavoidable feature of newspapers and television, stressing his role as head of Paychex and calling it one of the best-run companies in the nation.
In that time, Paychex stock has far outperformed not just the broader market, but the two other big payroll processing companies, Automatic Data Processing Inc., which gained 11 percent, and Ceridian Corporation, which remained almost unchanged. Paychex stock is traded on Nasdaq; the two others are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The funny thing about this is, when he announced to the Wall Street investment analysts that he was running again, they viewed it negatively because they thought he would be distracted from his business," said Stephen T. McClellan, an analyst with Merrill Lynch Global Securities in San Francisco. "But New York is a pretty good market for advertising to investors. It's not like running for governor in Idaho."
If Mr. Golisano's ads have attracted investors and perhaps even new customers to Paychex, then they have been a bargain. Television and radio stations and newspapers charge much less for political advertising than for commercial advertising.
Mr. Golisano says he is running because he is frustrated at the way state government works and disappointed in Gov. George E. Pataki, and and even aides to his opponents say there is no reason not to take him at his word. He might also be a looking for new challenges after 27 years at the helm of Paychex.
When the Independence Party was founded in 1994, it would not have attracted much attention but for Mr. Golisano's entering late in the campaign as the party's gubernatorial nominee and spending $6.6 million of his fortune. He quickly became a threat to tilt the balance in the close race between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mr. Pataki. The stock price jumped about 15 percent after he began his 1994 advertising, but then fell back slightly before Election Day.
He took 4.4 percent of the vote, enough to secure the Independence Party a place on all state ballots for the next four years, on the fourth line. (Lines are assigned in order of gubernatorial vote.) This year, polls have shown Mr. Golisano attracting close to 10 percent of the vote, according to poll respondents.
Earlier this year, he said he did not want to run again, but Independence Party officials, lacking another strong candidate, prevailed on him to wage another campaign. They hope to make the party a power that can tip elections and sway governments, in part by backing candidates from the major parties or withholding that support, as the state's Liberal and Conservative Parties have done.
This year, the Independence Party nominated three Democrats seeking statewide office: Representative Charles E. Schumer for Senate, Comptroller H. Carl McCall for re-election, and State Senator Catherine M. Abate for attorney general. Ms. Abate lost the Democratic primary, and while her name will appear on ballots, she is not running in the general election campaign.
The Independence Party advocates fiscal conservatism, term limits and tolerance on social issues like abortion and gay rights.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Keeping Track: Gaining In the Race" tracks the daily closing stock price of Paychex Inc, since August. (Source: Bloomberg Financial News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (92%); ADP (NASDAQ) (83%); ARB (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (81%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PAYCHEX INC PAYCHEX INC (92%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (83%); ARBITRON INC (81%); CERIDIAN CORP (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); INDEPENDENCE PARTY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAYCHEX INC INDEPENDENCE PARTY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); THIRD-PARTY MOVEMENTS (US); STOCKS AND BONDS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD B THOMAS GOLISANO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



67 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup President, Heir Apparent to Top Job, Quits Abruptly

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
James Dimon, the president of Citigroup, the world's largest financial services company, said yesterday that he would leave the company, a surprising move that raises questions about who will ultimately be tapped to manage the sprawling giant created by the recent merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc.
Sanford I. Weill and John S. Reed, Citigroup's co-chief executives, had been expected to groom Mr. Dimon, known as Jamie, as their successor. But Mr. Dimon had difficulties integrating the brokerage firm Salomon Smith Barney -- which Travelers created almost a year ago by acquiring the investment bank Salomon Brothers and merging it with its Smith Barney Unit -- into Travelers. 
 Combining the disparate corporate businesses of Citicorp and Travelers is an even more daunting task, and at a retreat at the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia last weekend, employees voiced concerns about how well that process was proceeding.
At that point, according to a Citigroup spokesman, Mr. Weill and Mr. Reed decided it was time to institute a clearer chain of command for managing key businesses like investment banking and lending to big corporations -- a new hierarchy that would have offered Mr. Dimon less authority at Citigroup than he wanted and that ultimately led to his departure yesterday.
In a move that will most likely lead to layoffs, Citigroup said it planned to combine all corporate banking activities into one unit jointly overseen by Michael A. Carpenter, former chairman of Travelers Life and Annuity, and Victor J. Menezes, former president of Citicorp. Deryck C. Maughan, who once ran Salomon Brothers before Travelers bought it, will become a vice chairman of Citigroup in a less crucial role that the company described as devising and implementing corporate strategy.
"This represents a very surprising move in the management of a key component of Citigroup, because I think most people assumed Jamie would be one of the two people running the corporate business, if not running it alone," said Diane Glossman, a banking analyst with Lehman Brothers Inc.
Moreover, the executive turmoil at Citigroup is evidence of the hurdles that must be overcome to make big mergers work despite abundant claims by corporations that size alone justifies these deals.
"I've said all along that successful mergers hinge on the quality of the execution," Ms. Glossman said. "If it were easy, everyone would do it."
In interviews yesterday, Mr. Reed, Mr. Weill, and Mr. Dimon all spoke amiably of one another and were optimistic about the financial prospects of a global investment banking business. Mr. Reed described Citigroup's corporate business as "in a class of our own," compared with such robust competitors as Merrill Lynch and Goldman, Sachs.
Nonetheless, Citigroup recently posted a 65 percent drop in third-quarter earnings, largely because of big losses incurred in increasingly risky and volatile global financial markets. Of course, many companies have been battered by global economic turmoil, but such uncertainty only added to the need for Citigroup to put its corporate businesses in order.
The departure of Mr. Dimon, 42, ends a long and financially fruitful relationship with Mr. Weill in which the two men worked closely for more than a decade building Travelers from the ground up.
Both men spoke affectionately of each other yesterday. But some analysts and Travelers employees suspect that a certain distance has come between the two executives ever since Mr. Weill's daughter, Jessica M. Bibliowicz, left her post last year as head of the Travelers mutual fund business after a series of run-ins with Mr. Dimon over the management of that business.
Mr. Weill said yesterday that his daughter's departure was "absolutely not" a factor in Mr. Dimon's resignation. "That happened a long time ago," he said.
Whatever discomfort existed because of that incident, neither Mr. Weill or Mr. Dimon were prepared for some of the trouble they encountered after Travelers bought Salomon Brothers last year. Mr. Weill recently closed Salomon's bond arbitrage business after the unit incurred hundreds of millions of dollars in trading losses.
In that regard, some analysts suggested that Mr. Dimon, widely regarded as an extremely capable executive, might be a scapegoat for Salomon's problems. Mr. Dimon, who lost his board seat in the merger, offered no indication of what he planned to do next.
Citigroup did not name a new president to replace Mr. Dimon, and Mr. Weill said there would not be a horse race between Mr. Menezes and Mr. Carpenter to fill that position.
Mr. Menezes is regarded by analysts as skilled in corporate politics and a capable, though not stellar, manager. Mr. Carpenter has won praise for his management of Travelers' life insurance and annuities business although he also ran Kidder Peabody & Company during the financial scandals involving Joseph Jett, the onetime bond-trading star.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC; CITICORP; TRAVELERS GROUP INC CITIGROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); TRAVELERS LIFE & ANNUITY CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; CITICORP; TRAVELERS GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; DIMON, JAMES; REED, JOHN S; WEILL, SANFORD I JAMES DIMON (92%); SANDY WEILL (89%); JACK REED (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



68 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: REFERENDUMS;
Popularity of Ballot Initiatives Leads to Questions

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 1

 BODY:
For Washington State residents who step into the polling place here on Tuesday, deciding whom to vote for may be the simple part. Then there are the whethers: whether to ban most forms of state-sponsored affirmative action; whether to approve the use of marijuana for medical purposes; whether to make it a felony crime to terminate "a fetus's life during the process of birth"; and whether to raise the state's minimum wage and, for the first time in any state, require automatic future increases tied to the inflation rate.
In California, voters have another dizzying array of choices, including a measure to expand Indian casino gambling that has sparked the most costly campaign battle over a ballot initiative in the nation's history. 
 In many other states, there are constitutional questions. Several states have so-called "mini Equal Rights Amendment" measures on their ballot, requiring more gender-neutral language in their constitutions.
South Carolinians will decide whether to remove a 103-year-old passage in their Constitution that forbids marriage between whites and blacks, a provision that the United States Supreme Court has already ruled unenforceable.
In South Dakota, voters will decide whether to change a technical oddity in that state's Constitution that allows anyone as young as 2 years old to be elected Governor. No toddler has ever managed to get elected to the post, but if voters agree, the official minimum age will be changed to 21.
And in Oregon, voters will go to the polls Tuesday to decide, well, whether they will ever go to the polls again. If Oregonians approve this initiative, as they are widely expected to do, all future elections in the state will be conducted entirely by mail.
Exactly 100 years after South Dakota became the first state in the union to allow direct citizen lawmaking through a process generally known as "initiative and referendum," voters around the nation face many such measures this week, with the battles around some of them so intense that they have generated at least as much attention as Congressional races.
All told, citizens in 16 states will decide on 61 such initiatives on Tuesday, while more than 170 other measures will deal with constitutional amendments and bond issues, according to the Initiative and Referendum Institute, a nonprofit organization based in Washington, D.C., that tracks the measures. About half the states, most west of the Mississippi where strong populist movements pushed for the right of citizens to make laws, have some method for getting initiatives on the ballot.
Over the last 100 years, initiatives have been used to advance a disparate collection of causes, including women's suffrage, the minimum wage, the taxpayer revolt, freezes on nuclear-weapons production and term limits for public officeholders.
In Alaska, initiatives would ban same-sex marriages; make English the state's official language; establish a term-limits pledge for political candidates; allow medical use of marijuana; ban billboards on state highways, and prohibit the trapping of wolves with snares.
And even as the 1990's are the most prolific decade for initiatives in the nation's history, including 1994, when a record 102 initiatives appeared on state ballots, there are growing signs of a backlash. Many lawmakers have complained that initiatives that sound good on paper can wreak havoc with state budgets or establish onerous constraints. But proponents of the process argue that many legislators do not like initiatives because they represent a direct usurpation of their own power, especially with term limits, which have been forced into law in several states through the initiative process.
In any event, in at least four states this year -- Mississippi, Missouri, Oregon and Wyoming -- there are measures on the ballot that would, in effect, limit the initiative process. Some of these measures would require "super-majorities," such as a two-thirds vote, for initiatives to pass, while in Wyoming, lawmakers are asking residents to approve new rules that critics say may make it impossible to get any future initiatives on the ballot.
Under the measure placed on the ballot by the Wyoming Legislature, supporters of future initiatives would be required to obtain signatures from 5 percent of all registered voters in at least two-thirds of the state's 23 counties.
The initiative process is facing a major legal challenge as well. Just this month, the United States Supreme Court heard arguments in a Colorado case involving new regulations in that state that would require that all signature gatherers for initiative petitions be registered state voters and that they wear identification badges. If upheld, critics say, the regulations could spark restrictions in other states that would make getting initiatives on the ballot even more onerous and expensive.
Still, with the proliferation of initiatives -- Oregon, California and Colorado all have at least seven this year -- there are concerns that the process could be overused. One measure that has aroused particular discussion is an Arizona initiative pushed by a tax-reform group hoping to influence the state's Presidential primary in 2000.
The measure would allow candidates for Congress or the Presidency to sign a pledge vowing to work for the abolition of the Internal Revenue Service and replacement of the income tax with a national sales tax. Those who sign the pledge would then get a special designation reading "Signed the I.R.S. Elimination Pledge" next to their names on ballots and in voter guides.
While critics in Arizona say the initiative could set a precedent leading to ballot chaos, with future candidates angling for special designations indicating their support for a range of other causes, like term limits or cancer research, a spokeswoman for the effort describes the tax designation as a valid way of "holding politicians' feet to the fire" on the tax issue. The pledges themselves would not be legally binding.
Across the nation, the most controversial and closely fought initiatives this fall include the gambling measure in California and another measure, promoted by Rob Reiner, the actor and film director, that would increase tobacco taxes by 50 cents a pack and designate the proceeds for children's programs.
Measures to restrict the late-term procedure that abortion opponents call "partial-birth abortion" are also being fiercely contested in Washington and Colorado. Voters in both states are being asked whether to criminalize the rarely used procedure, but abortion-rights advocates say the term "birth" is so vaguely defined that the measure could be used to impose much greater restrictions on abortion.
In Washington, the question before the voters is: "Shall the termination of a fetus's life during the process of birth be a felony crime except when necessary to prevent the pregnant woman's death?"
In Washington, D.C., Washington state, Oregon, Nevada and Alaska, voters will be asked whether to approve the use of marijuana for medical purposes. Such measures passed in California and Arizona in 1996 but have been blocked from implementation by Federal lawsuits. And while supporters say the drug is an effective way of alleviating pain for those who are ill, the Clinton Administration has come out four-square against the measures.
Barry R. McCaffrey, the administration's chief anti-narcotics official, solicited letters of opposition to the measures from former Presidents George Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald R. Ford, and this week Mr. McCaffrey denounced proponents of the ballot measures.
"Let's have none of this malarkey on marijuana smoking by cunning groups working to legalize drugs," said Mr. McCaffrey, a former Army general. "American medicine is the best in the world for pain management."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Some State Referendum Questions"
Some of the issues at stake in initiatives and proposed constitutional amendments on state ballots on Tuesday:
 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION -- Washington state residents decide whether to ban most forms of government- sponsored affirmative action.
 
MEDICAL MARIJUANA -- Washington, Oregon, Alaskaand Nevada decide whether to legalize the use of marijuana for approved medical purposes.
 
ABORTION -- In Washington and Colorado, measures would outlaw the late-term abortion procedure that critics call "partial-birth" abortion. Colorado residents also decide whether to require parental notification for minors' abortions.
 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE -- Massachusetts and Arizona will vote on major campaign-finance overhaul plans, including public financing of campaigns.
 
ENVIRONMENT -- An Oregon initiative would ban many timber harvest practices, including clear-cutting. California will vote on creating tax credits for air- quality improvements. New Jersey and Arizona residents decide whether to approve measures to preserve open-space lands.
 
ANIMAL RIGHTS -- Arizona and Missouri vote on whether to ban cockfighting, while Ohioans decide whether to outlaw the hunting of mourning doves.
 
SCHOOLS -- In California, voters decide whether to limit class size and to impose new competency standards for teachers. Colorado residents decide whether to create a tax credit for private-school tuition.
 
EQUAL RIGHTS -- In Florida, voters decide whether to add the clause "female and male alike" to the constitutional statement that "all natural persons are equal before the law." Iowans vote on whether to add "and women" to the constitutional guarantee that all men are "free and equal" and have "certain inalienable rights." In New Hampshire, where the Governor is a woman, voters decide whether to drop male pronouns from constitutional references to state officials, like the governor.
 
TAXES -- Californians vote on whether to increase cigarette taxes to 85 cents a pack from 35 cents. Montana voters decide whether to give state residents a veto power over most tax and fee increases. South Dakotans decide whether to prohibit future use of property taxes to pay for education. In Colorado, voters decide whether to extend a sales tax to pay for a new stadium for the Super Bowl champion Denver Broncos.
 
MINIMUM WAGE -- Washington voters decide whether to raise the minimum wage to $6.50 an hour by 2000 and become the first state to require annual increases in the wage linked to the inflation rate.
 
UTILITY RATES -- In California and Massachusetts, voters decide whether to scrap existing utility deregulation plans.
 
GAMBLING -- Californians decide whether to expand casino gambling on many Indian tribal lands.
 
GAY MARRIAGE -- In Alaska and Hawaii, voters are asked whether they wish to define marriage as a heterosexual union, thus heading off movements to legalize marriages between homosexuals.
 
MAIL-IN ELECTIONS -- Oregon voters decide whether their state will become the first in the nation to conduct elections entirely by mail.
 
TERM LIMITS -- In Alaska, Colorado, Idaho and Nevada, voters decide whether to establish a voluntary term limits pledge for political candidates.
 
RELIGION -- Alabama voters decide whether to add a constitutional amendment "to prohibit the burdening of the free exercise of religion unless government demonstrates that it has a compelling interest in doing so."
 
OFFICIAL ENGLISH -- Alaska voters decide whether to adopt English as the state's official language.
 
(Sources: National Conference of State Legislatures; Initiative and Referendum Institute; state voter guides.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); DENVER BRONCOS (59%); DENVER BRONCOS (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); DENVER BRONCOS (59%); DENVER BRONCOS (59%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); COLORADO, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION REFERENDUMS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); TERM LIMITS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); FELONIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); CASINOS (70%); BONDS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); MARRIAGE (66%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (57%); CANNABIS (57%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (56%); INFLATION (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); GAMING (54%); HISTORY (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



69 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE GOVERNOR;
Vallone Debates Alone as Pataki Draws Fire from Golisano for Ad Campaign

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Peter F. Vallone, the Democratic candidate for Governor, debated what he called "an empty chair" yesterday, participating in a televised forum without his Republican opponent, Governor George E. Pataki, who skipped the event and stumped upstate.
The Governor, who spoke to reporters at a Republican Party rally in Albany, said he had bypassed yesterday's face-off on WNBC-TV with Mr. Vallone, as well as other proposed debates, because the Democratic candidate "just never stopped with the personal attacks." 
 In fact, Mr. Vallone has said very little during this campaign that could be construed as personal, but he has been vigorous in attacking Mr. Pataki's policies. The Governor has simply pursued a traditional front-runner's strategy of refusing to meet his opponent in head-to-head debate, while insisting that he would like to.
And Mr. Pataki himself was under fire yesterday for a new set of attack advertisements. The ads are aimed not at Mr. Vallone, whom polls show to be trailing by a 2-to-1 margin, but at a third-party candidate -- B. Thomas Golisano of the Independence Party -- who polls show to be draining votes from Mr. Pataki. The ads accuse Mr. Golisano of favoring legalized drugs and prostitution.
Unable to negotiate a debate between the two major party candidates in the Governor's race, WNBC-TV's Gabe Pressman instead interviewed Mr. Vallone for 30 minutes, often being as combative in his questioning as the Governor himself might have been. Mr. Vallone, who is the Speaker of the City Council, used much of the time to lash out at Mr. Pataki for not appearing, repeatedly gesturing to the unoccupied seat next to him and asking, "What is he afraid of?"
The Speaker accused the Governor of ignoring the issue of campaign finance reform, cutting funds for education and child care, of vetoing a bill that would have given preferences to New York state firms competing for state business, and of raising tuition at the State University of New York.
Referring to the fact that Mr. Pataki has said that he speaks for honorariums partly because the cost of college for his children will be so prohibitive, Mr. Vallone said, "If George Pataki can't afford tuition and he makes $130,000 and has free room and board and a free mansion to live in, what's happening to the rest of the middle class? Why did he raise tuition by 30 percent?"
He also criticized the Governor for trying to divide the state, a reference to Mr. Pataki's remark on Saturday about the Democratic statewide ticket that "they're all from New York City."
But the Republican Governor, as has been his strategy throughout this most low-key of campaigns, ignored the opposition and skirted the media, for the most part, as he spoke at campaign rallies in Rochester, Elmira and Albany.
At a rally in a cavernous hangar at the Albany International Airport, 300 cheering, stomping supporters -- a good number of them political appointees to state jobs, and their families -- gave Mr. Pataki a rock star's welcome.
"Is New York State not a better place than it was four years ago?" he asked, to a thunderous response.
"You give us the opportunity to lead this state into the 21st Century, and in 1999 and 2000 and 2001 and 2002, New York will lead the nation in cutting taxes every one of those years," he said at the rally, which included Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco and a raft of other Republican candidates.
The Governor took credit for the state's economic expansion, the dropping crime rate and declining welfare rolls, as well as for his tax cuts.
As if the two men were conducting a virtual debate, Mr. Vallone repeatedly accused the Governor of taking credit for successes that were not his, particularly the state's economic expansion, the dropping crime rate, and declining welfare rolls. "He is responsible for all these things that have happened, including Mark McGwire's 70th home run. Whatever has happened, the rain comes, the sun shines, it's all because George Pataki's in office," Mr. Vallone said. "But it's all orchestrated, folks, it's all a paid commercial."
Mr. Vallone seemed so consumed by his absent opponent that he sometimes missed opportunities to define himself and his policy positions. Asked about his Quality First Health Care plan, a proposal that would provide health care to all New Yorkers, Mr. Vallone began by saying, "Wouldn't it be wonderful if Governor Pataki were sitting here, and I could say, Governor, do you understand that there are three million New Yorkers who are working right now who can't afford health insurance?" He barely explained how the plan would work.
Mr. Vallone was in a car accident on Friday in the Rockaways, and suffered bruises on his neck and back. Yesterday he wore an electrical device, with nodes attached to his neck and back, by which he can stimulate areas that feel pain. Mr. Pressman asked him how he was feeling, and Mr. Vallone jested, "Well, if the election was as far apart as they thought, they never would have tried to kill me."
Mr. Vallone noted that the accident occurred when a media van, driven by a freelance photographer, slammed into his car after it had stopped at a red light. The Democratic candidate, whose campaign has sometimes complained about media coverage, commented wryly, "You could say that maybe I've been rear-ended a little bit too often by the media in this campaign."
Mr. Golisano, the Independence Party candidate who is running a distant third in the polls, held a news conference in Albany, shortly before Mr. Pataki's rally. He angrily protested the Governor's new television advertisement. The ad, Republican strategists say, is aimed primarily at depressing the Independence Party line vote because the party's nominee for Senate is Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Democrat trying to unseat Mr. D'Amato.
Speaking of his four grandchildren, Mr. Golisano said, "Tonight they're going to be watching television, and they're going to see an ad saying their grandfather wants to legalize drugs and prostitution."
Mr. Golisano, who is spending up to $20 million of his own money on his race, has said repeatedly that he does not think the war on drugs is working, and that he does not believe people should routinely be jailed for low-level possession charges. "The punishment doesn't fit the crime," he said.
He conceded that one of the ideas he has spoken of as being worthy of consideration is making drugs available to addicts under a doctor's supervision. As for prostitution, he insisted that he had never advocated legalization, but rather has said it should somehow be more closely controlled to prevent the spread of the AIDS virus.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone, right, the Democratic candidate for governor, gestures to an empty seat yesterday during a televised forum with Gabe Pressman, left. Gov. George E. Pataki declined to take part in the event. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; PROSTITUTION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TUITION FEES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); DECRIMINALIZATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CHILDREN (67%); STUDENT EXPENSES (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); CITIES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); PRESSMAN, GABE; GOLISANO, B THOMAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



70 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: TURNOUT;
Leery of Backfiring TV Ads, Interest Groups Return to Doorbell, Phone and Pamphlet

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., Oct. 30

 BODY:
On the third floor of an old house here, Boyd McCamish unfurled a computer sheet listing his fellow members of Local 204 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. And he started dialing the phone.
"We're just calling some of our union brothers and sisters about this upcoming election," he said by way of introduction. Then he made a friendly but efficient pitch on behalf of John Edwards, the Democrat who is challenging Senator Lauch Faircloth here in one of the closest Senate races in the country. "Get the friends and family out there Nov. 3," he instructed into the phone. "Maybe we can turn the corner." 
 Mr. McCamish, 27, is a foot soldier in the battle to prod voters to turn out on Election Day. Here, and in scores of other tight House and Senate races, men and women are applying the personal touch and their powers of persuasion in these final hours to rally their most ardent supporters.
In a non-Presidential election year like this, with the economy humming and no national issues stirring passions, only committed voters -- less than 4 in 10 of those eligible -- are expected to vote. This means that candidates are in a fierce struggle to make sure that their core supporters vote, or as political professionals put it, that they "energize their base."
In such a climate, many of the big national interest groups that normally pump millions of dollars into television commercials have decided that television is a waste of money. It reaches too many people who do not care, and it has the potential to incite the opposition.
As a result, while the national political parties are still spending millions on television, many groups with specific constituencies have adopted a more back-to-basics strategy. They are going directly to their supporters with repeated personal phone calls, strolls through neighborhoods, small information sessions and multiple direct-mail appeals.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O., under whose umbrella Mr. McCamish was making his phone calls, has undergone the most noticeable transformation. In 1996, big labor spent $35 million on the election, all of it on television advertisements. This year, it is spending $20 million on grass-roots organizing, mail and phone banks, and almost nothing on television.
"We've found that one-on-one contact, with union members talking personally to union members, pays huge dividends," said Steve Rosenthal, political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. It is especially crucial in a state like North Carolina, he said, "where the right has proven it can get its vote out."
Because of the intensity of the Senate race here, state officials are predicting a turnout of about 47 percent of eligible voters, slightly higher than the average for a non-Presidential year and much higher than predictions for turnout nationally.
Curtis B. Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, estimated that nationwide a relatively low 36 percent to 38 percent of those eligible would vote. Still, he said, "Small amounts of votes might make a difference in a lot of close races."
The intense get-out-the-vote war is evident here, engaging groups as diverse as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Christian Coalition, Planned Parenthood and the National Rifle Association, the Friends of Tobacco and the black churches.
"Everything we're doing is targeted specifically to our base, to get them out to the polls," said Wayne LaPierre, the executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, which is concentrating on direct mail to its members here and a few strategically placed radio ads. "This election isn't about convincing people who's right; it's about getting your supporters who already believe you're right to the polls. Everyone is after that two, three or four percent that can turn these races."
Nina Miller, a strategist for the political arm of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said: "It's all mail and phones. We're hitting people as many times as they will tolerate being hit."
She said that one of the main reasons for campaigning strictly among Planned Parenthood's core supporters was that the mere mention of the incendiary issue of abortion in a scattershot radio or television commercial could rouse as many opponents as supporters to go to the polls.
"If we did a radio ad, for every pro-choice voter we'd reach, we'd reach an anti-choice voter," Ms. Miller said. "We don't want to get the wrong people out to vote."
The Christian Coalition here is augmenting the 35 million voter guides it puts out nationally with 160,000 postcards to North Carolina households that it has identified through church lists as Christian conservatives. "We try to place these cards in the hands of people who want them," said Simm Delapp, the state chairman. "We don't do the general marketplace, or churches that don't want us, or stores or windshields," he said. "That's litter."
Likewise, the United States Chamber of Commerce is sending mail and organizing phone banks on behalf of Mr. Faircloth. "Our money is better spent in specific, targeted, get-out-the-vote efforts for pro-business candidates" than on television, said J. T. Taylor, a lobbyist for the chamber.
North Carolina has more registered Democrats (53 percent) than Republicans (34 percent). But many Democrats are conservatives, known here as Jessecrats, after the state's senior Senator, Jesse Helms, and they cross party lines to vote Republican. They have harbored an intense dislike for President Clinton for years, long before the Monica Lewinsky scandal, and Senator Faircloth has been building on the anti-Clinton sentiment.
As he framed the matter in a visit here to North Carolina State University: "How long do you think Bill Clinton would last as a professor at a state college if he acted the way he has in Washington?"
The importance of the Jessecrats has forced Mr. Edwards, a millionaire trial lawyer, to disavow any liberal label. "I grew up in rural North Carolina," he declared during a visit Thursday to Mr. Faircloth's hometown. "I grew up in the Baptist church. I support the death penalty, a balanced budget, no tax increases and some tax cuts."
The state Republican Party has a huge operation dedicated to identifying the crossover voters, sending them mail and urging them to the polls. And for the first time this year, the party has also sent out hundreds of thousands of applications for absentee ballots that include a picture of Senator Faircloth.
In a further effort to win over the Jessecrats, the Republican Party is warning voters that if Mr. Edwards is elected, he will cancel out Mr. Helms's vote, effectively leaving North Carolina with no vote in the United States Senate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Lauch Faircloth, left, a North Carolina Republican, was joined at a rally Saturday by former Vice President Dan Quayle. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); A F L-C I O (70%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); A F L-C I O (70%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; TELEVISION; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (66%); 

PERSON: FAIRCLOTH, LAUCH (SEN); EDWARDS, JOHN; MCCAMISH, BOYD JOHN EDWARDS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



71 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Bailout: Too Soon to Worry

 BODY:

To the Editor:
An Oct. 29 front-page article on Brazil's economic recovery plan exaggerates the country's depletion of its foreign-currency reserves. When the financial crisis erupted in July, Brazil's currency reserves were close to $75 billion, a comfortable figure for a country whose annual import bill amounts to $60 billion.
Since July, its reserves have been reduced to about $45 billion but have hardly been used up. This is why the proposed package from outside backers is a contingency reserve rather than a loan. 
 It is true that Brazil's trade balance turned negative in 1995 and the current account balance has been in deficit. But for a rapidly developing economy attractive to foreign investors, this is not inherently unhealthy.
But if the Government devalues the real more precipitously than the current rate of about 7 percent a year, it will risk creating a merry-go-round of increased prices followed by increased wages, rents and other costs. That would mean the failure of the hard-won stabilization programs started by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso in 1994. Such a failure might undermine the democratic stability regained in 1985 after 21 years of military rule.
 
LINCOLN GORDON
Washington, Oct. 29, 1998
 
The writer was United States Ambassador to Brazil, 1961-66.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRY-GO-ROUND ENTERPRISES INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT BAILOUTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVALUATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TRENDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: GORDON, LINCOLN FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



72 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: MASSACHUSETTS;
In Campaign for Governor, A Bitter Fight to the Finish

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: QUINCY, Mass., Nov. 1

 BODY:
The "victory tour" buses glided into the Quincy town center this nippy, yellow-leaved afternoon, parked right near the 17th-century burial ground whose iron gate reads "Dust thou art & unto dust thou shalt return," and disgorged dozens of very much alive Republican stalwarts.
Dozens more local Quincy political cheerleaders, already in place and holding up signs with hands turning numb in the November air, chanted "Four more years!" 
 And then, looking as if he were sincerely having a good time, Argeo Paul Cellucci, the Republican Acting Governor of Massachusetts, who is running to remove the "acting" from his title, took to the open-air podium at his fourth rally of the day to pound on the points meant to cement his slim lead:
Did the state need a governor who would continue cutting taxes? ("Yes!" shouted the crowd.) And did it want a governor who stood for higher standards in the classrooms? ("Yes!") And who would protect the state by signing the death penalty into law? ("Yes!")
And how about his running mate, Jane Swift, whose newborn daughter and solid working relationship with him meant that "for the first time in history, we will have in the executive office a working mother making decisions for the families of Massachusetts"? (They liked her a lot, judging by the cheers.)
So it went on this penultimate campaign day on the Republican side of the race for governor -- a mix of energizing the ground troops who must get out the vote on Tuesday and repeating familiar themes, with a particular emphasis on pocketbook talk.
Things were little different on the Democratic side. Scott Harshbarger, the state Attorney General and Mr. Cellucci's Democratic challenger, took his messages from Sunday morning church services in urban Boston to rallies in the towns of New Bedford and Barnstable, unrelenting in his travels -- and in his salvos against Mr. Cellucci.
Mr. Harshbarger has emphasized financial and ethical issues in his attacks on the Acting Governor, accusing him of selling out to special interests and allowing his personal debt to get out of hand. Mr. Harshbarger's positive arguments have centered on his plans to foster education, health care and child care as governor. They have been backed by help from Hillary Rodham Clinton, Senator Edward M. Kennedy and other Democratic leaders.
This weekend, Mr. Harshbarger took advantage of a front-page article in The Boston Herald reporting on an Army investigation into whether the chief of the state National Guard had illegally helped raise money for Mr. Cellucci's campaign. He issued a statement declaring, "It's time to clean house in the executive branch of government."
The attacks and counterattacks have prompted local commentators to call this the nastiest state campaign since 1990, when Republican William Weld fought off Democrat John R. Silber, then the president of Boston University. So aggressive was a recent debate at Boston's Faneuil Hall Marketplace that a new phrase has entered the lexicon of Massachusetts political history: "The brawl at Faneuil Hall."
The verbal fisticuffs could be partly the fault of political consultants, said Michael Goldman, himself a Democratic consultant, with some chagrin. After Mr. Harshbarger seemed too passive in his first debate with Mr. Cellucci, Mr. Goldman said, he had been told that he had to do a better job of fighting back and not allowing himself to get beaten up.
So, he explained, in later debates "the perception is it was loud, it was noisy, it was undisciplined, but Harshbarger held his own."
But the toughness of the race seems to stem not so much from the arguments as from the natural advantage each candidate has. Mr. Harshbarger is a Democrat in a state that seems almost as Democratic as the Soviet Union was Communist. But Mr. Cellucci is an incumbent in a time of prosperity.
His final messages, Mr. Cellucci says, focus on the pocketbook. And pocketbook issues seemed to inspire his supporters at today's rallies.
"Cellucci's got the economy going for him," summed up Bob Ostiguy, who maintains an ice rink in South Boston. "There's money in the coffers and everybody's working."
Mr. Harshbarger, meanwhile, seemed to be focusing most on bringing voters to the polls who would support him -- including those whose pocketbooks have never bulged.
"I think the key for me is who votes," he said, emphasizing his search for support among "the people who've been left behind in the best economy of our lifetime."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts on the stump. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (51%); REPUBLICAN ACTING (72%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN ACTING (72%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CHEERLEADING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WORKING MOTHERS (71%); FAMILY (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (52%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY; CELLUCCI, ARGEO PAUL (ACTING GOV); HARSHBARGER, SCOTT (ATTY GEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



73 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 2;Column 3;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Hurricane Toll Exceeds 1,000 in Central America
Intense and widespread flooding in the wake of Hurricane Mitch has killed more than a thousand people in Central America, with hundreds more still missing, their villages buried under huge mudslides, relief and government officials said. A1
 
Memorial for Yitzak Rabin
Israel held its first nationwide memorial for Yitzak Rabin, the former Prime Minister, three years after his assassination, signaling a concerted effort to transform him from a partisan hero into a figure of consensus -- a national symbol of peace. A12 

Hamas Warns Arafat's Officers
The armed wing of the militant Islamic group Hamas warned for the first time that it may turn its guns on Yasir Arafat's police force. The Palestinian chief of police vowed that his men would respond, and he issued orders from his Gaza office to shoot at suspected assailants. The Hamas threat was a departure in its longstanding position that it would never be drawn into a civil war and signaled a deepening crisis for the Palestinian Authority. A12
 
New U.S.-Israeli Pact
President Clinton and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu signed an agreement that officials in both countries described as a significant intensification of the American commitment to safeguard Israel's security in a post-Soviet world. A13
 
U.S. Demands Iraqi Compliance
The Clinton Administration said it would consider military strikes against Iraq if President Saddam Hussein did not back down from his decision to halt all cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors. President Clinton said Iraq's move clearly violated United Nations Security Council resolutions. A12
 
Treaty Faces Tough Battle
International negotiators will resume talks today in Buenos Aires over details in the treaty to fight global warming, but with their expectations sharply lowered. Little progress has been made since the Kyoto Protocol was approved last year, and it appears unlikely that an agreement on the details will be reached in time for the United States Senate to vote on ratification before the elections in 2000. A6
 
Distress in South Korea
Growing numbers of "economic orphans," though still very rare, are just one symptom of the psychological distress tearing at families as South Korea's economy descends in a tailspin. A14
 
Adams Seeks I.R.A. Restraint
Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish Republican Army, said he would appeal to the overwhelmingly Roman Catholic guerrilla organization not to retaliate for the killing, apparently by Protestants, of a Catholic man in Belfast on Saturday. A8
 
NATIONAL A16-23
 
Clinton Leads a Drive To Galvanize Black Voters
President Clinton invoked Speaker Newt Gingrich, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks in an impassioned plea that was part of a drive by Democrats to spur turnout by black voters in the election on Tuesday. Mr. Clinton appeared at a predominantly black church in Baltimore in his final barnstorming trip of the campaign year. A1
 
In scores of tight House and Senate races across the country, campaign workers are applying the personal touch and powers of persuasion to rally supporters. In a non-Presidential election year like this, with the economy humming and no national issues stirring passions, only committed voters -- less than 4 in 10 of those eligible -- are expected to vote on Tuesday. A20
 
Voters across the nation this week face measures that would allow direct citizen lawmaking through a process generally known as "initiative and referendum," with the battles around some of them so intense that they have generated at least as much attention as Congressional races. A22
 
Democratic Governors in the 14-state interior West risk falling in status from endangered to nearly extinct. In the three states with Democratic Governors -- Colorado, Nebraska and Nevada -- Republican candidates approach the elections with leads in opinion polls. A22
 
Glenn Talks of Faith
Senator John Glenn said his return to space aboard the shuttle Discovery has strengthened his religious faith and illustrates the benefits of cooperating with other nations in space instead of competing with them, as was the case during his first flight three decades ago. A16
 
Citigroup President to Resign
Jamie Dimon, president of Citigroup, the world's largest financial services concern, said that he would leave the company, a surprising move that raises questions about a successor. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Old-Style Politicking Colors a Senate Race
Representative Charles E. Schumer campaigned for the Senate in black, Jewish and Hispanic neighborhoods across New York City, bringing in Vice President Al Gore in an effort to rally support in the election. His opponent, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, went to Orthodox Jewish communities in Brooklyn, portraying himself as an underdog in the final weekend of the bruising race. A1
 
The Democratic and Republican Parties are using a new technique -- calls to potential voters that feature recorded messages from the candidates and political celebrities -- along with the customary mailings, fliers and telephone banks to get their voters to the polls. A1
 
Peter F. Vallone, the Democratic candidate for Governor, debated what he called "an empty chair," participating in a televised forum without his Republican opponent, Governor Pataki, who skipped the event and stumped upstate. B5
 
B. Thomas Golisano's decision to spend $20 million of his fortune on a third-party campaign for governor may turn out to have been another smart investment. The stock price of Mr. Golisano's payroll processing company, Paychex, has jumped, just as it did when he ran for governor in 1994. B5
 
ARTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
Bulldog Turner
A Chicago Bears Hall of Fame center and linebacker who played on four National Football League championship teams in the 1940's, he was 79. B11
 
Peter Griffin
An algebra teacher with such a winning way with numbers that he unlocked the mathematics of blackjack with a wink and became a cult figure to a generation of casino card counters, along the way writing the authoritative "Theory of Blackjack," he was 61. B11
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 
Part-Timers as Full-Timers
A new class of part-timers, mostly women, is emerging and working what used to be considered full-time hours -- 35 or 40 hours a week. The employees want to cut back their official hours so they can spend more time with their children or deal with other responsibilities. A1
 
$1 Billion Software Deal
BMC Software, a software company based in Houston, is expected to announce today that it is acquiring Boole & Babbage, one of Silicon Valley's older companies, for nearly $1 billion in stock. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Jets Win, 20-17
John Hall kicked a winning field goal with 2 seconds remaining. D1
 
THE MARATHON F1-10
 
Marathon Winners
John Kagwe of Kenya repeated as champion of the New York City Marathon. Franca Fiacconi became the first Italian woman to win the New York race. F1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: New chill in China; vote no on New York City "reform"; vote yes for open space in New Jersey; Brent Staples on Jefferson.
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E6
 
Metro.Diary B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather B8

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 1998, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
The News Summary yesterday included an entry erroneously in some copies for an obituary of Rudolph J. Melone, founder of the Gilroy, Calif., Garlic Festival. It appears today, on page B11.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); 

COMPANY: HAMAS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); RELIGION (74%); APPROVALS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



74 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1969 words

HEADLINE: Part-Time Work for Some Adds Up to Full-Time Job

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
Working part time used to mean afternoons at home or two or three days off a week. But as many Americans find themselves working weeks that stretch to 60 or more hours, "part time" can mean something very different: the ability to leave the office most nights at 5 or schedule a half-day off every other week.
A new class of part-timers, mostly women, is emerging and working what used to be considered full-time hours -- 35 or 40 hours a week. Lawyers, consultants, managers and other professionals, they want to cut back their official hours so they can spend more time with their children or deal with other responsibilities. They want the freedom to miss a meeting occasionally to drop in on a Tumbling Tots class or visit an ailing parent. 
 When Sharon Katz Pearlman joined KPMG Peat Marwick five years ago as a tax lawyer, for example, she wanted to avoid the typical 14-hour days put in by consultants and lawyers and leave the office when she wished. As a mother of young children, "it's very important to me to make potato latkes at Hanukkah for nursery school," she explained. So she accepted a lower salary in exchange for a schedule of three and, later, four days a week.
Between the time she spent in the office and the late-night hours at her computer at home, she sometimes worked 40 hours a week anyway. By becoming more efficient, skipping lunch as well as chitchat at the office, and working at home after her four children had gone to bed, Ms. Pearlman discovered that she could "cram it all in."
"I have to be very productive in whatever time I have," she said. Partly because of the freedom to do the work wherever and whenever she can, she has in recent months been logging more like 60 hours a week, although she still does not feel obliged to make an appearance at the firm every day. In July, at her supervisor's insistence, her status was changed to full time -- and she made partner.
No one, including the Government, which classifies anyone who works 35 or more hours as full time, knows how many full-time part-timers there are. And companies, which can report to the minute how long hourly workers put in because they punch clocks or fill out time sheets, tend to be reluctant to acknowledge or measure just how much their salaried employees work.
But one study suggests that these workers are a sizable presence. Roughly a third of the salaried part-time employees surveyed in the 1997 National Study of the Changing Work Force said they spent at least 35 hours on the job, though the sample was small and statisticians say the actual number could be anywhere from a quarter to almost half of the millions of part-timers.
What is clear is that as the number of women who are professionals and managers has increased and the number of dual-career couples has grown, so has this new kind of part-timer. "The group that needs flexibility and lower work hours is so much larger than it was," said Robert Drago, who teaches economics and studies workplace issues at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.
Part of the need stems from the fact that many Americans are working more: the average workweek for a professional or manager has stretched in the last 20 years to almost 48 hours from 45, according to the 1997 work force study, which was conducted by the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit research group in New York.
Whether employees are turning their careers into some sort of modern religion or corporations are demanding more from them, these long hours have changed expectations on both sides. "The complicated issue is: If a full week is 60 to 80 hours, what is part time?" said Ellen Galinsky, president of the institute.
Part time often used to mean a casual commitment to the job on the part of both the employer and employee. Part-timers came and went, frequently holding positions with low visibility, and certainly could not expect much in the way of benefits, status or job security.
But now, employees who want to keep their careers are experimenting with different arrangements. Some are trying to manage nearly the same workload as the full-timers by working more at home and working more efficiently at the office. Others are cutting their workloads. Though they typically collect benefits, many take a cut in pay.
Some employees are thrilled with these more flexible workweeks. But many are frustrated by the perception among supervisors and colleagues that they are somehow shirking work unless they are in the office as long as everyone else is. And they can invite resentment from colleagues who feel that their own workloads will only increase to compensate for the part-timer's absence. "This is a culture change in process," said Ted Childs, the vice president for global work force diversity at the International Business Machines Corporation.
Many companies, however, still hew to old definitions and reward their employees based strictly on the amount of time they put in at the office. "It's very clear that, culturally, we still have work organized as if it were back in 1952," said Paula Rayman, the director of the Radcliffe Public Policy Institute in Cambridge, Mass., which studies work issues. Companies, she said, "still create a sense, the longer you work, the better, and face time counts."
Ms. Rayman recalls talking to one chief executive who was considering layoffs and was convinced that the least valuable employees were those who were out the company door the first chance they got. Though some of those people were not committed, he later realized that others were among the company's most efficient.
Colleagues may also resent a fellow worker who has the luxury of taking a day off or leaving early while they remain chained to their desks. One woman who works a short week recalls a male co-worker telling her that he could not believe that she escaped without a pay cut. "Men could never do that," he complained.
At I.B.M., roughly 1,000 people are considered "regular part time," meaning they have either adjusted or reduced their hours yet enjoy privileges of full-timers like pension contributions and health insurance. One of Mr. Childs's challenges is to make sure the employees who do put in traditional hours are not resentful because they "don't see a full glass," he said.
But as working husbands and wives, who now make up about 44 percent of the employed population, try to juggle their duties, they are forcing a change in thinking. They do not necessarily want less responsibility, according to Sheila W. Wellington, president of Catalyst, a nonprofit research group in New York that is devoted to women's work issues. "They just want to have control over their schedules at the margins," she said.
Companies are aiming to accommodate. Some are motivated by sympathetic managers or a desire to have a diverse work force. The threat or reality of high attrition, which costs an employer money by forcing it to hire and retrain workers, also pushes companies to experiment.
Not always with equal success. Maggie Oberst, the director of corporate communications for the Mastech Corporation, a Pittsburgh information technology company, took a 20 percent pay cut when she decided she wanted to work four days, not five. So when she finds herself putting in extra hours one week, she said, she pares back her hours the following week. As a result, her experience has been satisfying.
Melia Strittmatter, on the other hand, soon came to feel that she had shortchanged herself by agreeing to take a pay cut for essentially learning how to work smarter. When she decided to cut back to part time at I.B.M. in 1994, for example, her responsibilities in software marketing remained virtually unchanged. By becoming more efficient -- and skipping some late afternoon meetings -- she was able to shrink her 60-hour workweek by a third and accomplish about the same amount of work.
But Ms. Strittmatter, who left I.B.M. in 1997 to join her husband's interior-room design business for even greater flexibility, said that she came to resent the colleagues who were paid more simply for spending more time in the office because they socialized more or they tended to real estate businesses on the side. "Many times, many times, I felt, 'Why am I taking less pay for this?' " she recalled.
Often shouldering more of the burden of minding the children or caring for elderly relatives, women already make up more of the traditional part-time work force -- 68 percent, compared with 41 percent of the full-time work force -- and may be quicker to accept a deal that pays them less for essentially the same job.
"We are total suckers for doing that," said Kelly Zuckerman, who works for a California entertainment company. She said that she was adamant about collecting a full salary for her four-day week because her duties did not change.
And much of the problem lies not with company policies but inconsistent application of the rules by supervisors. Some employees are able to keep their full salaries, but tailor their hours to their needs, an arrangement typically known as flex-time. David and Kara Plonczynski, senior credit analysts at Motorola's two-way radio business, for instance, each get at least two days a week to work from home. Any time they give to their two small children, they make up by working in the evening.
At the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, where at least 500 employees take advantage of a reduced workweek, professionals who stop working at 40 hours take a pay cut -- but also have less work to do. Deloitte, for example, allows Chris Foster, a senior manager, to bill only three-quarters of what his peers bill so he can spend more time with his two small children, especially since his wife travels for her job, and his pay is docked proportionately. "I wouldn't have it any other way," he said.
But others are not so lucky. How companies treat these part-timers "is not equitable," said Carol Sladek, the head of work-life consulting at Hewitt Associates, a human resources consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill. "It is truly manager driven."
Companies like Merck, I.B.M. and Ralston Purina acknowledge an ongoing struggle to make sure managers follow through on corporate policies aimed at encouraging flexibility. "This is not something that is going to change overnight," said Michele Peterson, senior director of work/ life flexibility at Merck, which has changed how it compensates its managers to reflect how responsive subordinates and peers say the managers are to different arrangements. Deloitte, for instance, checks up quarterly on employees in their first year of reduced workweeks to make sure the arrangement is fair all around.
But employees also have to take responsibility for what they agree to do. "We need to be honest about how much we are willing to work," said Melanie Berry, who edits a newsletter for working mothers, Executive Baby, from Mount Airy, Md.
If someone takes a pay cut to gain some control over her hours and then decides that she is being underpaid -- comparing her deal with someone who gets a full salary and takes long lunches or to a flex-timer who collects full salary -- she has little recourse. Legal experts say the employee would be hard pressed to bring a discrimination suit as the person who initiated the change. The colleague whom she resents has "in a sense negotiated a better deal," said Carol Sanger, a family law professor at Columbia University who has looked into gender issues.
Changing the way people think about work will never be easy. Companies may be reluctant to acknowledge that they consider a full-time job to be 60 hours, and employees may not realize how inefficient they are at home. "There is no perfect solution," admits Ms. Strittmatter, the former I.B.M. employee.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Monday with a front-page article about part-time workers who put in full-time hours mislabeled figures representing the growth in dual-career couples. The figures represented the number of members of such couples, not the number of couples.

GRAPHIC: Photo. (Photograph by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 
Graph: "Signs Of a Backlash"
As more women like Melia Strittmatter (shown above with her husband, John) try to balance a demanding career with family responsibilities, they are trying to work fewer, more flexible hours.
 As the number of dual-career couples in the work force has risen, more women are working as professionals and managers.
 Professionals and managers are working a longer average week, and the percentage of people who say they would like to work fewer hours has risen, with women in full-time jobs, more than men, saying they would like to work part time. Graph provides statistics. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; 1997 National Study of the Changing Work Force)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (69%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; PROFESSIONS; WORKING HOURS PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (78%); LAWYERS (75%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); HANUKKAH (66%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998



75 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 18; Column 9; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 10592 words

HEADLINE: 1998 NEW YORK CITY MARATHON - PART FIFTEEN OF SIXTEEN;
Five Boroughs and Thousands of Stories

 BODY:

 28000 Caren, T, 23F 5:26:18
 28001 Tivel, R, 57M 5:26:18
 28002 Borle, A, 30F 5:26:18
 28003 Jones, G, 61M 5:26:20
 28004 Danne, M, 47M 5:26:20
 28005 Takada, C, 25F 5:26:21
 28006 Schmidt, J, 51M 5:26:21
 28007 Duffy, J, 48M 5:26:22
 28008 Goncalves, J, 37M 5:26:22
 28009 Sokol, D, 45F 5:26:22
 28010 Rampy, N, 31F 5:26:23
 28011 Albright, M, 50M 5:26:24
 28012 Capen, J, 61M 5:26:24
 28013 Mallory, M, 35M 5:26:25
 28014 Bryan, J, 40F 5:26:26
 28015 Meadows, D, 51M 5:26:26
 28016 Irving, A, 45M 5:26:29
28017 Kretschmar, G, 43F 5:26:30
 28018 Condon, M, 39F 5:26:30
 28019 Rosenberg, D, 30M 5:26:32
 28020 Litterio, L, 30F 5:26:35
 28021 Korner, F, 47M 5:26:36
 28022 Broekman, P, 42F 5:26:36
 28023 Silverberg, S, 39M 5:26:36
 28024 Nguyen, K, 31M 5:26:37
 28025 Clyne, V, 52M 5:26:37
28026 Kunzer, J, 28F 5:26:37
 28027 Sikes, E, 30F 5:26:38
 28028 Vanvliet, J, 27M 5:26:38
 28029 Liebert, D, 24F 5:26:38
 28030 McGuinness, M, 30M 5:26:39
 28031 Fink, J, 51M 5:26:41
 28032 Garcia, C, 36M 5:26:41
 28033 Teatini, S, 31M 5:26:44
 28034 Volpato, A, 54M 5:26:45
 28035 Levinstone, P, 42F 5:26:45
 28036 Ramsey, J, 30F 5:26:45
 28037 Viglietta, S, 39F 5:26:45
 28038 Schreier, G, 32M 5:26:45
 28039 Ramsey, R, 55M 5:26:45
 28040 Esquival, M, 32M 5:26:47
 28041 Campbell, G, 33M 5:26:47
 28042 Simmons, M, 43M 5:26:48
 28043 Stenson, S, 33M 5:26:48
 28044 Takeda, T, 30F 5:26:50
 28045 Kobayashi, Y, 43M 5:26:50
 28046 Piccoli, P, 45M 5:26:53
 28047 Rodgers, K, 39M 5:26:59
 28048 Buxbaum, L, 33F 5:27:00
 28049 Suppona, B, 45F 5:27:00
 28050 O'Gorman, F, 50F 5:27:02
28051 Ralph, R, 48F 5:27:02
 28052 Youtsey, M, 36F 5:27:02
 28053 Washington, R, 41F 5:27:03
 28054 Merkin, J, 42M 5:27:05
 28055 Little, J, 47F 5:27:05
 28056 Ginsberg, J, 31F 5:27:06
 28057 Cantu, J, 57M 5:27:06
 28058 Louis, J, 42F 5:27:06
 28059 Owens, R, 43M 5:27:07
 28060 Molek, C, 56F 5:27:07
 28061 Hitzel, A, 31M 5:27:08
 28062 Scheer, L, 73M 5:27:09
 28063 Motoki, A, 27M 5:27:11
 28064 Rios, M, 40F 5:27:12
 28065 Hirsch, L, 34M 5:27:14
 28066 Lane, S, 28F 5:27:14
 28067 Nelson, K, 28F 5:27:14
 28068 Morris, A, 41F 5:27:15
 28069 Breiger, E, 60F 5:27:16
 28070 Yount, W, 37M 5:27:17
 28071 Shott, C, 38F 5:27:17
 28072 Segarra, D, 55F 5:27:18
 28073 Perrett, T, 20F 5:27:18
 28074 Steinke, R, 22M 5:27:18
 28075 Burg, F, 47M 5:27:19
 28076 Starr, C, 43F 5:27:19
 28077 Nickel, J, 49M 5:27:19
 28078 Moore, J, 30F 5:27:20
 28079 Jacko, J, 33F 5:27:21
 28080 Smaldone, K, 41F 5:27:22
 28081 Dingemans, A, 44M 5:27:23
 28082 Anderson, E, 49M 5:27:24
 28083 Jones, P, 63M 5:27:24
 28084 Avallone, J, 33F 5:27:24
 28085 Peterson, T, 26F 5:27:25
 28086 Lohn, C, 24M 5:27:25
 28087 Manziana, C, 41M 5:27:26
 28088 McDonald, C, 30M 5:27:28
 28089 Rogers, S, 47F 5:27:29
 28090 Wright, G, 43M 5:27:33
 28091 Langdon, R, 29F 5:27:34
 28092 Dennis, C, 56M 5:27:37
 28093 Wu, K, 28F 5:27:38
 28094 Richards, T, 46M 5:27:39
 28095 Wooloughan, J, 64M 5:27:40
 28096 Kirchner, S, 32F 5:27:41
 28097 Panula, J, 33F 5:27:41
 28098 Kurula, P, 35M 5:27:42
 28099 Torhonen-Kopman, L, 44F 5:27:42
 28100 Penny, J, 37F 5:27:45
 28101 Ozbilge, S, 43M 5:27:45
 28102 Mello Neto, A, 54M 5:27:46
 28103 Reis, M, 34M 5:27:46
 28104 Dybowski, T, 40M 5:27:47
 28105 Sukezawe, T, 36M 5:27:48
 28106 Bell, D, 26F 5:27:48
 28107 Sukzzanz, T, 34F 5:27:48
 28108 Bossis, P, 47M 5:27:50
 28109 Hannan, J, 49F 5:27:50
 28110 Soljanich, E, 27F 5:27:50
 28111 Mitchell, T, 45M 5:27:50
 28112 Sautner, D, 66M 5:27:51
 28113 Pigato, E, 35F 5:27:51
 28114 Sautner, M, 29M 5:27:52
 28115 Whitmer, B, 63M 5:27:53
 28116 Martin, R, 51M 5:27:53
 28117 Mendes Filho, M, 47M 5:27:53
 28118 Wootton, J, 39F 5:27:54
 28119 Garcia, R, 50M 5:27:55
 28120 Bernard, F, 61F 5:27:57
 28121 Fujita, R, 30F 5:27:57
 28122 France, W, 41M 5:27:57
 28123 Spichtig, A, 49M 5:27:58
 28124 Sugeoi, H, 51M 5:27:59
 28125 Ferreira, G, 50M 5:27:59
 28126 Lipton, D, 40F 5:27:59
 28127 Lipton, S, 51M 5:27:59
 28128 Pliam, N, 47M 5:27:59
 28129 Prytz, A, 32F 5:28:00
 28130 Alexander, M, 31M 5:28:01
 28131 Rossi, G, 52M 5:28:02
 28132 Eysseric, H, 32F 5:28:02
 28133 Bernard, M, 56F 5:28:02
 28134 Fundin, F, 39M 5:28:02
 28135 Friedman, A, 42M 5:28:03
 28136 Carlier, M, 40F 5:28:03
 28137 Greenberg, G, 60M 5:28:04
 28138 Caldwell, R, 52M 5:28:04
 28139 Trebat, T, 53M 5:28:04
 28140 Leomiti, E, 28M 5:28:05
 28141 Thompson, J, 54M 5:28:06
 28142 Schumacher, L, 50F 5:28:06
 28143 Andrews, R, 50M 5:28:07
 28144 Kuhn, K, 27M 5:28:07
 28145 Tacchella, A, 55F 5:28:08
 28146 Clarke, K, 34F 5:28:09
 28147 Reilly, J, 56M 5:28:10
 28148 Gebel, F, 32F 5:28:10
 28149 Firschein, W, 31M 5:28:10
 28150 Nakagawa, F, 39M 5:28:11
 28151 Colon, N, 34M 5:28:12
 28152 Cattaneo, E, 41M 5:28:12
 28153 Rokose, M, 38M 5:28:13
 28154 Thiele, B, 45F 5:28:15
 28155 Forero, L, 60M 5:28:16
 28156 Olsson, C, 36F 5:28:16
 28157 Jonasson, K, 37F 5:28:17
 28158 Bouwmans, W, 46M 5:28:17
 28159 Moore, M, 37F 5:28:19
 28160 Novak, R, 46M 5:28:21
 28161 Wirth, R, 53M 5:28:21
 28162 Murray, J, 32F 5:28:22
 28163 Hudson, P, 53M 5:28:24
 28164 Adair, M, 44M 5:28:26
 28165 Sparaco, C, 28F 5:28:27
 28166 Minutilli, D, 40M 5:28:28
 28167 Koning, M, 36M 5:28:28
 28168 Wigren, L, 34M 5:28:29
 28169 Ricci, L, 52M 5:28:29
 28170 Wolff, J, 25M 5:28:31
 28171 Penenberg, D, 38M 5:28:32
 28172 Fisher, M, 54F 5:28:33
 28173 Hogg, E, 28F 5:28:34
 28174 McCracken, J, 52F 5:28:35
 28175 McCracken, W, 55M 5:28:35
 28176 Marino, K, 44F 5:28:35
 28177 Harvey, C, 53M 5:28:38
 28178 Awan, M, 24M 5:28:40
 28179 Gold, S, 55M 5:28:40
 28180 Fierro, J, 45F 5:28:40
 28181 Ravasio, R, 51M 5:28:42
 28182 Semans, C, 31F 5:28:43
 28183 Belelli, R, 46M 5:28:43
 28184 Weigel, F, 26M 5:28:46
 28185 Dipple, M, 38F 5:28:48
 28186 Paolo, J, 28M 5:28:49
 28187 Taylor, L, 69M 5:28:50
 28188 Somer, H, 79M 5:28:50
 28189 Bhatt, N, 20F 5:28:53
 28190 Wood, C, 33M 5:28:55
 28191 Gonzalez, R, 60M 5:28:56
 28192 Origlia, M, 31M 5:28:57
 28193 Beigbeder, T, 37M 5:28:57
 28194 Ingram, W, 40M 5:28:58
 28195 Somersby, M, 26F 5:28:59
 28196 Silverbush, L, 29F 5:29:01
 28197 Mach, S, 53F 5:29:02
 28198 Texidor, N, 55F 5:29:03
 28199 Negroni, T, 39F 5:29:03
 28200 Garrett, R, 51M 5:29:03
 28201 Gallagher, J, 47M 5:29:03
 28202 Medina, A, 55M 5:29:03
 28203 Matthews-Utere, R, 33F 5:29:06
 28204 Coyne, M, 33M 5:29:07
 28205 Scotti, F, 28M 5:29:07
 28206 Sims, S, 32F 5:29:08
 28207 Arneson, L, 23M 5:29:08
 28208 Reid, M, 52F 5:29:10
 28209 Gilroy, J, 44M 5:29:10
 28210 Ancona, M, 33F 5:29:11
 28211 Bjorkman, A, 43M 5:29:11
 28212 Marcenaro, G, 28F 5:29:15
 28213 Murphy, P, 47F 5:29:15
 28214 Murphy, M, 44M 5:29:15
 28215 Appel, W, 54M 5:29:16
 28216 Mahfood, D, 32F 5:29:16
 28217 Appel, A, 50F 5:29:18
 28218 Hulett, S, 51F 5:29:18
 28219 Goetz, D, 32M 5:29:18
 28220 Kane, M, 27M 5:29:19
 28221 Perkins, S, 44F 5:29:19
 28222 Perkins, R, 56M 5:29:19
 28223 Taylor, A, 30F 5:29:21
 28224 Clifford, B, 30M 5:29:22
 28225 Patel, S, 27F 5:29:22
 28226 Young, J, 28F 5:29:22
 28227 Hendrix, T, 49M 5:29:22
 28228 Ziegler, J, 27M 5:29:23
 28229 Umeda, J, 33M 5:29:23
 28230 Coltrin, N, 43F 5:29:24
 28231 Verducci, N, 36M 5:29:25
 28232 Videler, R, 34M 5:29:27
 28233 Bigatti, L, 36M 5:29:27
 28234 Findlay, N, 43M 5:29:28
 28235 Richardson, E, 50F 5:29:29
 28236 Bennett, M, 30F 5:29:30
 28237 Happee, M, 31F 5:29:31
 28238 Beth, B, 47M 5:29:31
 28239 Pantani, P, 49M 5:29:32
 28240 Basile, K, 29F 5:29:33
 28241 Rosenthal, L, 50M 5:29:34
 28242 Tsuji, T, 52M 5:29:35
 28243 Zellman, D, 30F 5:29:36
 28244 Moore, R, 44M 5:29:37
 28245 Stein, B, 60M 5:29:37
 28246 Lee, C, 40F 5:29:37
 28247 Bussinello, K, 26F 5:29:37
 28248 Albert, J, 53F 5:29:37
 28249 Kuscsik, N, 59F 5:29:37
 28250 Mallat, B, 37F 5:29:37
 28251 Young, R, 36M 5:29:38
 28252 Blackwell, J, 37M 5:29:38
 28253 Stevanella, R, 33M 5:29:38
 28254 Franz, M, 29F 5:29:39
 28255 Morales, J, 52M 5:29:39
 28256 Bussinello, T, 55M 5:29:40
 28257 Stevanella, R, 60M 5:29:40
 28258 Martinez, S, 42M 5:29:40
 28259 Owens, J, 52M 5:29:41
 28260 Bartolomeo, J, 30M 5:29:42
 28261 Douthat, J, 30M 5:29:43
 28262 Temponeras, C, 28F 5:29:43
 28263 Robinson, J, 69M 5:29:43
 28264 Blomqvist, H, 32F 5:29:44
 28265 Ballone, N, 29M 5:29:44
 28266 Alexander, K, 28F 5:29:45
 28267 Stone, K, 26F 5:29:45
 28268 Jones, A, 31F 5:29:45
 28269 Hubbard, E, 20F 5:29:46
 28270 Martini, M, 73M 5:29:46
 28271 Brown, M, 22M 5:29:46
 28272 Keelan, C, 38F 5:29:47
 28273 Fambrough, S, 29F 5:29:48
 28274 Baraoidan, M, 31F 5:29:48
 28275 Jones, W, 50M 5:29:48
 28276 Cullen, J, 54M 5:29:49
 28277 Quicray, J, 77M 5:29:50
 28278 Randall, T, 30F 5:29:51
 28279 Randall, G, 33M 5:29:51
 28280 Best, R, 22M 5:29:51
 28281 Mohamed, M, 34M 5:29:53
 28282 Rivieri, M, 34M 5:29:55
 28283 Sepulveda Silva, O, 44M 5:29:56
 28284 Trongone, J, 40M 5:29:56
 28285 Decious, R, 54F 5:29:57
 28286 Kirtcho, M, 45M 5:29:57
 28287 Ness, J, 42M 5:29:58
 28288 Laramee, P, 46F 5:29:58
 28289 Brancato, F, 60M 5:29:58
 28290 Harmsen, A, 24F 5:29:59
 28291 Wilson, L, 55F 5:29:59
 28292 Nuessler, G, 62M 5:30:00
 28293 Crisara, S, 44F 5:30:00
 28294 Just, C, 42M 5:30:00
 28295 Katerenchuk, J, 40M 5:30:00
 28296 Bailly, J, 33M 5:30:01
 28297 Tucker, J, 61M 5:30:01
 28298 Heyes, D, 38F 5:30:02
 28299 Ozzano, E, 40F 5:30:02
 28300 Van Lopik, E, 41F 5:30:03
 28301 Fries, R, 49M 5:30:04
 28302 Kane, E, 47M 5:30:05
 28303 Simons, R, 44M 5:30:05
 28304 Pater-Chasey, C, 36F 5:30:05
 28305 Rogers, P, 61M 5:30:06
 28306 Fitzgerald, S, 37M 5:30:07
 28307 Sievers, D, 38M 5:30:08
 28308 Grande, C, 36F 5:30:09
 28309 George, R, 40F 5:30:10
 28310 Hennessey, J, 31F 5:30:12
 28311 Stewart, S, 35F 5:30:12
 28312 Perticone, S, 70M 5:30:13
 28313 Klein, L, 61M 5:30:13
 28314 Ingvaldsen, T, 45F 5:30:13
 28315 Munson, L, 48F 5:30:14
 28316 Hoiby, J, 48F 5:30:15
 28317 Abbate, R, 57M 5:30:15
 28318 Yazzie, T, 20F 5:30:16
 28319 Franklin, C, 41M 5:30:18
 28320 Vilhelmsen, P, 43M 5:30:19
 28321 Lakhloufi, T, 40F 5:30:19
 28322 Scheucher, E, 38F 5:30:21
 28323 Nomura, H, 41M 5:30:26
 28324 Male, M, 51F 5:30:26
 28325 Mollard, D, 25M 5:30:28
 28326 De Luca de Garcia, R, 54F 5:30:31
 28327 Munoz, C, 39F 5:30:31
 28328 Aylesworth, K, 31F 5:30:32
 28329 Hassett, B, 29F 5:30:32
 28330 Kiewiet, P, 45M 5:30:33
 28331 Galloway, P, 46F 5:30:35
 28332 Carswell, D, 51M 5:30:35
 28333 O'Brien, P, 36M 5:30:37
 28334 Gonzales, J, 37M 5:30:39
 28335 Vazquez, S, 28F 5:30:39
 28336 Vinet, G, 52M 5:30:40
 28337 Torstensson, U, 55F 5:30:40
 28338 Han, Y, 35F 5:30:40
 28339 Torstensson, L, 56M 5:30:41
 28340 Katz, D, 28F 5:30:42
 28341 Botha, F, 53M 5:30:42
 28342 Katz, J, 29M 5:30:43
 28343 Brehm, D, 46F 5:30:43
 28344 Caro, R, 38M 5:30:46
 28345 Goings, E, 25F 5:30:48
 28346 Imatome, N, 21F 5:30:50
 28347 Imatome, H, 23F 5:30:50
 28348 Baiardi, A, 26M 5:30:52
 28349 Haslie, L, 39M 5:30:53
 28350 Valkeinen, M, 53M 5:30:54
 28351 O'Brien Ahlers, K, 30F 5:30:54
 28352 Kravitz, W, 30M 5:30:56
 28353 Spagnuolo, C, 31F 5:30:57
 28354 Siegel, D, 58M 5:30:59
 28355 Yee, V, 30F 5:30:59
 28356 Margaretten, M, 55F 5:31:01
 28357 Del Valle, L, 30F 5:31:02
 28358 Butwin, R, 39M 5:31:03
 28359 Denman, E, 64M 5:31:03
 28360 Windels, E, 66F 5:31:04
 28361 Reeves, L, 42M 5:31:05
 28362 Tatis, U, 37F 5:31:05
 28363 Gross, B, 56M 5:31:06
 28364 Arbuiso, M, 31M 5:31:07
 28365 Smith, C, 44F 5:31:07
 28366 Mock, C, 56F 5:31:07
 28367 Armant, R, 42F 5:31:08
 28368 Stark, U, 34F 5:31:09
 28369 Fatovic, E, 50M 5:31:09
 28370 McConnell, M, 36F 5:31:10
 28371 Gramss, D, 36M 5:31:11
 28372 Liimatainen, R, 27M 5:31:12
28373 Wilson, R, 56M 5:31:12
 28374 Piacentino, C, 50M 5:31:13
 28375 Tufodandria, V, 75M 5:31:14
 28376 Fanning Jr, T, 60M 5:31:15
 28377 Alvarez, T, 49M 5:31:16
 28378 Niimura, M, 58M 5:31:17
 28379 Tomlinson, J, 38M 5:31:17
 28380 Goetsch, F, 33M 5:31:18
 28381 Romo, M, 52M 5:31:20
 28382 Palmiere, C, 39F 5:31:20
 28383 Smith, B, 49F 5:31:20
 28384 Tuliao, M, 37F 5:31:20
 28385 Beahm, G, 55M 5:31:21
 28386 Beahm, M, 21M 5:31:21
 28387 White, E, 36F 5:31:25
 28388 Berkobien, R, 44M 5:31:27
 28389 Vergnon, D, 52F 5:31:27
 28390 Vergnon, J, 53M 5:31:28
 28391 Fuzaro, O, 38M 5:31:28
 28392 Cook, M, 38M 5:31:28
 28393 Heinick, C, 42F 5:31:31
 28394 Heinick, D, 43M 5:31:31
 28395 Lee, J, 32M 5:31:31
 28396 Gonfiantini, A, 39M 5:31:32
 28397 Parada Chavez, E, 39M 5:31:35
 28398 Weinberg, J, 32M 5:31:36
 28399 Van Den Brink, J, 34F 5:31:36
 28400 Paz, A, 67M 5:31:37
 28401 Poggiali, A, 42M 5:31:39
 28402 Gruenhagen, U, 56M 5:31:39
 28403 Laidler, L, 39F 5:31:39
 28404 Thorp, J, 30M 5:31:39
 28405 Martinez, R, 35M 5:31:40
 28406 Shapiro, S, 51M 5:31:40
28407 Barricella, K, 56F 5:31:42
 28408 Campbell, M, 43F 5:31:44
 28409 Lenardon, G, 45M 5:31:44
 28410 Antinori, C, 64M 5:31:45
 28411 Takehara, N, 26M 5:31:47
 28412 Reilly, A, 45F 5:31:48
 28413 Reilly, R, 51M 5:31:49
 28414 Englert, T, 38M 5:31:49
 28415 Roman, E, 51F 5:31:50
 28416 Gervasi, R, 48M 5:31:53
 28417 Kalinowski, M, 28M 5:31:59
 28418 Walsh, J, 51M 5:32:02
 28419 Nolan, K, 50M 5:32:04
 28420 Lissak, M, 40F 5:32:04
 28421 Stay, N, 49M 5:32:04
 28422 Kass, D, 41F 5:32:04
 28423 Moses, D, 49M 5:32:06
 28424 Luongo, J, 26F 5:32:09
 28425 Pidwell, C, 49F 5:32:10
 28426 Mandausch, L, 49F 5:32:10
 28427 Maduraud, F, 60F 5:32:10
 28428 Kyle, P, 45M 5:32:11
 28429 Godard, A, 62M 5:32:12
 28430 Wicklund, D, 47M 5:32:13
 28431 Quist, P, 41M 5:32:14
 28432 Palmer, J, 30M 5:32:15
 28433 Bloom, F, 62M 5:32:15
 28434 Nilsson, E, 53F 5:32:15
 28435 Nilsson, L, 47M 5:32:16
 28436 Weiss, S, 42F 5:32:17
 28437 Waltz, T, 27F 5:32:17
 28438 Vanwittenberghe, N, 29F 5:32:21
 28439 Tremelet, J, 44M 5:32:23
 28440 Allen, R, 45M 5:32:24
 28441 Kushiya, T, 32M 5:32:25
 28442 Mayring, J, 29F 5:32:25
 28443 Hafenbrack, D, 43M 5:32:25
 28444 Mora, J, 46M 5:32:26
 28445 Kerstein, F, 50M 5:32:27
 28446 Bosshard, J, 51F 5:32:27
 28447 Kiuchi, S, 44M 5:32:28
 28448 Lucas, R, 53M 5:32:29
 28449 Iida, K, 46M 5:32:29
 28450 Spencer, L, 35M 5:32:32
 28451 Saarto, A, 44F 5:32:32
 28452 Hakanson, R, 31M 5:32:33
 28453 Holz, B, 51M 5:32:33
 28454 Wieland, H, 66M 5:32:35
 28455 Alonso, G, 42M 5:32:35
 28456 Cohen, A, 28F 5:32:36
 28457 Masefield, D, 51F 5:32:37
 28458 Peyser, J, 49M 5:32:37
 28459 Torre, M, 53M 5:32:37
 28460 L'Heureux, M, 44M 5:32:39
 28461 Ersan, E, 30F 5:32:43
 28462 Johansson, B, 56M 5:32:44
 28463 Hagar, D, 33F 5:32:44
 28464 Mykietyn, P, 48M 5:32:44
 28465 Cavello, J, 60M 5:32:45
 28466 Laby, C, 47M 5:32:47
 28467 Sandullo, H, 54M 5:32:52
 28468 Ito, T, 40M 5:32:53
 28469 Kuharcik, C, 50F 5:32:54
 28470 Jacquin, J, 51M 5:32:54
 28471 Fleck, B, 53F 5:32:54
 28472 Herring, N, 47F 5:32:55
 28473 Timson, T, 44M 5:32:56
 28474 Vazquez, V, 46M 5:32:56
 28475 Tonelli, G, 46F 5:32:57
 28476 Prely, I, 37F 5:32:58
 28477 Dobias, J, 26M 5:32:58
 28478 Kubo, A, 31F 5:32:59
 28479 Cashin, M, 31M 5:33:00
 28480 Carlsson, M, 30M 5:33:00
 28481 Morales, C, 64M 5:33:02
 28482 Pujol, P, 43M 5:33:04
 28483 Tharin, S, 28F 5:33:05
 28484 Cook, D, 33M 5:33:05
 28485 Connolly, J, 29M 5:33:05
 28486 Moore, L, 48F 5:33:05
 28487 Rubbone, A, 47F 5:33:07
 28488 Hayashi, T, 31M 5:33:09
 28489 Callahan, T, 24F 5:33:09
 28490 Roven, J, 37F 5:33:10
 28491 Fujimoto, M, 28F 5:33:10
 28492 Gold, L, 41F 5:33:11
 28493 Rasmussen, B, 45F 5:33:11
 28494 Glanzer, J, 51F 5:33:14
 28495 Svetogorsky, B, 36M 5:33:14
 28496 Walker, M, 31M 5:33:14
 28497 McKinney, A, 30F 5:33:16
 28498 Martinez Lobato, C, 44F 5:33:16
 28499 Johnson, E, 47M 5:33:17
 28500 Sims, J, 46M 5:33:17
 28501 Dietz, J, 33M 5:33:17
 28502 Grant, C, 64M 5:33:19
 28503 Chun, J, 25F 5:33:19
 28504 Arrabal Nevot, A, 66M 5:33:20
 28505 Layos-Gomez, A, 42M 5:33:20
 28506 Combs, E, 64M 5:33:21
 28507 Frain, S, 29F 5:33:21
 28508 Yeh, K, 34F 5:33:24
 28509 Lettiere, W, 58M 5:33:25
 28510 Yamane, Y, 51M 5:33:28
 28511 Lann, R, 64M 5:33:28
 28512 Niedt, N, 41F 5:33:30
 28513 Macdonald, S, 40F 5:33:30
 28514 Collins, M, 23F 5:33:30
 28515 Layng, P, 28M 5:33:31
 28516 Flood, K, 41M 5:33:34
 28517 Polissar, N, 59M 5:33:35
 28518 RUNNER NO. X5852, 35M 5:33:36
 28519 Smith, C, 40F 5:33:38
 28520 Mallory, C, 49F 5:33:38
 28521 Hoover, E, 39F 5:33:38
 28522 Pelletier, A, 34F 5:33:38
 28523 Perez, M, 30F 5:33:39
 28524 Hadden, E, 31F 5:33:39
 28525 Hunt, J, 28F 5:33:40
 28526 Polissar, N, 54F 5:33:41
 28527 Kissiah, K, 27F 5:33:41
 28528 Onne, S, 50M 5:33:42
 28529 Fynn, D, 61M 5:33:43
 28530 Narang, I, 29F 5:33:44
 28531 Martinez, M, 34M 5:33:46
 28532 Riina, H, 34M 5:33:47
 28533 Armstrong, S, 34F 5:33:47
 28534 Cook, J, 33F 5:33:48
 28535 Giampalmo, G, 60M 5:33:48
 28536 Touw, S, 49M 5:33:48
 28537 Mikkelsen, H, 44F 5:33:49
 28538 Dolan, G, 31M 5:33:51
 28539 Shapiro, G, 65M 5:33:52
 28540 Slobom, N, 37M 5:33:53
 28541 Altbaum, S, 27F 5:33:58
 28542 Passov, I, 64M 5:33:58
 28543 Lazic, M, 36M 5:33:58
 28544 Paul, L, 54M 5:34:01
 28545 Meijer, C, 39F 5:34:02
 28546 Konicki, M, 28F 5:34:02
 28547 Contreras, L, 57M 5:34:03
 28548 Rossel, S, 20F 5:34:04
 28549 Spikes, L, 32M 5:34:04
 28550 Whitcomb, G, 30M 5:34:06
 28551 Palma, O, 59M 5:34:07
 28552 Petrocchi, C, 40F 5:34:08
 28553 Barker, E, 24F 5:34:09
 28554 Wilson, D, 30M 5:34:10
 28555 Von Kleeck, D, 52M 5:34:10
 28556 Christensen, L, 46M 5:34:11
 28557 Schneider, W, 45M 5:34:12
 28558 Andersen, L, 36F 5:34:13
 28559 Yaman, U, 34F 5:34:13
 28560 Connell, M, 41M 5:34:16
 28561 Yaman, T, 31M 5:34:16
 28562 Apgar, M, 41M 5:34:17
 28563 Lowenherz, J, 35F 5:34:17
 28564 Bushman, D, 43M 5:34:18
 28565 Staley, J, 44F 5:34:19
 28566 Panarello, A, 27F 5:34:20
 28567 Panarello, J, 26F 5:34:20
 28568 Yoshida, N, 30F 5:34:22
 28569 Yoshida, S, 30M 5:34:22
 28570 Yancoskie, B, 42F 5:34:22
 28571 Gonzalez, A, 56M 5:34:25
 28572 Passilongo, M, 55M 5:34:25
 28573 Hirt, C, 28F 5:34:26
 28574 Edwards, A, 26M 5:34:29
 28575 Hogan, J, 43M 5:34:30
 28576 Dibona, D, 55M 5:34:30
 28577 Marin, D, 51M 5:34:30
 28578 Ligorria, J, 50M 5:34:31
 28579 Solomon, E, 56M 5:34:31
28580 Macklow, B, 64F 5:34:32
 28581 Morales, A, 29F 5:34:32
 28582 Brown, A, 20M 5:34:33
 28583 White, A, 35F 5:34:34
 28584 Hachisu, S, 30M 5:34:35
 28585 Krieger, R, 42F 5:34:35
 28586 Jakob, M, 32M 5:34:35
 28587 Rabidou, N, 29F 5:34:36
 28588 Samoggia, P, 33F 5:34:36
 28589 Sterling, M, 46M 5:34:36
 28590 Schueler, C, 39F 5:34:37
 28591 Storm, J, 26F 5:34:38
 28592 Hauser, J, 40M 5:34:39
 28593 Weihenmayer, E, 30M 5:34:39
 28594 Karhu, B, 39F 5:34:39
 28595 Schue, G, 31F 5:34:39
 28596 Sakai, Y, 45F 5:34:39
 28597 Lepore, L, 50F 5:34:41
 28598 Leighton, M, 31M 5:34:41
 28599 Erberber, J, 50M 5:34:41
 28600 Shields, M, 37M 5:34:42
 28601 Lepeltier, M, 40F 5:34:42
 28602 Salter, J, 54M 5:34:42
 28603 Savary, A, 35F 5:34:42
 28604 Sylvia, T, 52M 5:34:43
 28605 Gracia, C, 31M 5:34:43
 28606 Daley, S, 39F 5:34:44
 28607 Sherman, R, 50M 5:34:44
 28608 Wolfe, J, 28F 5:34:44
 28609 Di Simone, R, 31F 5:34:45
 28610 Mezrahi, E, 38M 5:34:45
 28611 Zignelboim, J, 34F 5:34:45
 28612 Johal, K, 27M 5:34:46
 28613 Persillet, F, 36M 5:34:47
 28614 Helming, E, 30M 5:34:49
 28615 Stiefelhagen, D, 51F 5:34:49
 28616 Laffloer, H, 40F 5:34:50
 28617 Kempin, E, 55F 5:34:50
 28618 Overbye, E, 26F 5:34:51
 28619 Gisle, B, 36M 5:34:51
 28620 Gonzalez, A, 54M 5:34:52
 28621 Le Guelaff, M, 30M 5:34:54
 28622 Pezzica, R, 49F 5:34:54
 28623 Nussbaum, H, 31F 5:34:54
 28624 Young, M, 25F 5:34:55
 28625 Rice, J, 49M 5:34:56
 28626 Boddington, C, 32M 5:34:56
 28627 Okazaki, K, 39M 5:34:57
 28628 Costigan, M, 42F 5:34:58
 28629 Bouquier, M, 45F 5:34:59
 28630 Hardy, M, 46F 5:34:59
 28631 Spies, H, 64M 5:34:59
 28632 Karczewski, G, 56M 5:34:59
 28633 Sheridan, D, 29F 5:34:59
 28634 Karczewski, F, 55F 5:35:00
 28635 Lovell, S, 45F 5:35:00
 28636 Foster, S, 40M 5:35:01
 28637 Mu Iz, A, 42M 5:35:03
 28638 Gerdes, D, 60F 5:35:03
 28639 Baxter, K, 49F 5:35:06
 28640 Walsh, J, 40F 5:35:08
 28641 Ishiyama, K, 27F 5:35:09
 28642 Samuel, J, 37F 5:35:10
 28643 Dreux, S, 39M 5:35:11
 28644 Blin, R, 34M 5:35:11
 28645 Winters, R, 27M 5:35:12
 28646 Fullan, B, 35F 5:35:13
 28647 Longenecker, M, 38F 5:35:15
 28648 Schroth, C, 50F 5:35:17
 28649 Oliver, J, 42M 5:35:17
 28650 Schimansky, B, 56F 5:35:20
28651 Petrides, V, 33F 5:35:21
 28652 Chancellor, D, 36F 5:35:22
 28653 Hughes, M, 30F 5:35:24
 28654 Wynn Jr., R, 36M 5:35:26
 28655 Dinardo, O, 65F 5:35:27
 28656 Ravaldi, M, 62M 5:35:29
 28657 Evangelista, D, 28F 5:35:31
 28658 App, P, 51M 5:35:32
 28659 McKevitt, E, 38F 5:35:32
28660 Ceniza-Levine, S, 27M 5:35:33
 28661 Lennon, T, 55M 5:35:34
 28662 West, H, 26F 5:35:35
 28663 Armstrong, T, 37F 5:35:39
 28664 Philippa, A, 32M 5:35:39
 28665 Gonzalez, J, 31F 5:35:40
 28666 Taira, M, 63M 5:35:40
 28667 Coelho, C, 35M 5:35:43
 28668 Marchiori, E, 48M 5:35:45
28669 Bakaitis, T, 25F 5:35:47
 28670 Dean, W, 32M 5:35:47
 28671 McNulty, C, 29F 5:35:49
 28672 Feerick, K, 28F 5:35:50
 28673 Taylor, C, 38M 5:35:50
 28674 Kjaersgaard, I, 58F 5:35:52
 28675 Caraffini, C, 50M 5:35:56
 28676 Scudieri, R, 29M 5:35:57
 28677 Woodhouse, I, 37F 5:35:59
 28678 Economacos, V, 36F 5:35:59
 28679 Jonquois, T, 42M 5:36:01
 28680 Eaton, D, 36M 5:36:03
 28681 Belanger, M, 36M 5:36:03
 28682 O'Neill, R, 45M 5:36:04
 28683 Phelan, S, 39M 5:36:04
 28684 Gallin, N, 53F 5:36:05
 28685 Harrington, E, 33F 5:36:06
 28686 Almadani, A, 37F 5:36:06
 28687 Clifford, R, 36M 5:36:07
 28688 Shoulberg, K, 28F 5:36:07
 28689 Heinrich, D, 31M 5:36:08
 28690 Lehr, H, 32F 5:36:08
 28691 Parker, A, 40M 5:36:09
 28692 Chae, M, 50M 5:36:09
 28693 Perez, G, 28M 5:36:11
 28694 Smith, S, 44M 5:36:12
 28695 Lynch-Zazulyk, K, 42F 5:36:13
 28696 Digiacomo, V, 32M 5:36:13
 28697 Jaques, T, 29M 5:36:13
 28698 Nobrega, E, 60F 5:36:20
 28699 Nobrega, J, 37M 5:36:21
 28700 Nacionales, M, 30F 5:36:24
 28701 Maddalosso, G, 59M 5:36:24
 28702 Gamez, J, 50M 5:36:25
 28703 Durand, I, 40M 5:36:27
 28704 Zavodnick, H, 49M 5:36:27
 28705 Maita, G, 42M 5:36:28
 28706 Aaron, E, 49M 5:36:28
 28707 Feusi, M, 38F 5:36:29
 28708 Kacen, B, 50M 5:36:32
 28709 Kenul, J, 54M 5:36:33
 28710 Eyre, R, 31F 5:36:35
 28711 Merritt, E, 62M 5:36:36
 28712 Cianfrani, C, 57M 5:36:39
 28713 Peck, A, 42F 5:36:43
 28714 Lally, J, 42M 5:36:45
 28715 Johnstone, P, 49M 5:36:45
 28716 Zimmer, R, 55F 5:36:49
 28717 Schretzman, M, 40F 5:36:49
 28718 Gagneur, E, 53F 5:36:53
 28719 Schellberg, R, 26M 5:36:54
 28720 Fitts, F, 52M 5:36:56
 28721 Thurston, J, 45M 5:36:56
 28722 Kimura, Y, 43F 5:36:58
 28723 Linwood, C, 26F 5:36:59
 28724 Linwood, S, 26F 5:36:59
 28725 Mayo, S, 34F 5:36:59
 28726 WrubeL, L, 32F 5:36:59
 28727 Robe, L, 50F 5:36:59
 28728 Jenin, R, 29F 5:37:00
 28729 Garrahan, D, 28F 5:37:02
 28730 Goodman, E, 55M 5:37:03
 28731 Gregg, W, 51M 5:37:04
 28732 Loiseau, A, 51M 5:37:05
 28733 Weiner, J, 46M 5:37:05
 28734 Weiner, B, 42M 5:37:05
 28735 Pascutto, C, 29F 5:37:05
 28736 Hayne, B, 50M 5:37:06
 28737 Falk, S, 53M 5:37:06
 28738 Montoto, C, 50F 5:37:07
 28739 Hobbs, M, 42F 5:37:08
 28740 Lennane, A, 37M 5:37:11
 28741 Victori, B, 50M 5:37:14
 28742 Cooney, P, 49M 5:37:14
 28743 Rosenshine, B, 68M 5:37:18
 28744 McFadden, M, 47F 5:37:24
 28745 McFadden, J, 50M 5:37:24
 28746 Sonshine, S, 50M 5:37:24
 28747 Koch, G, 45M 5:37:25
 28748 Nowalk, P, 32F 5:37:25
 28749 Bellew, J, 57M 5:37:25
 28750 Kulikowski, N, 45F 5:37:27
 28751 Mokrzycki, G, 26M 5:37:30
 28752 Disher, M, 45F 5:37:30
 28753 O'Shea, K, 42F 5:37:30
 28754 Carlson, E, 33M 5:37:31
 28755 Jonas, L, 33F 5:37:32
 28756 Tannenbaum, J, 51M 5:37:34
 28757 Pagano, D, 45M 5:37:35
 28758 Leaderman, J, 26F 5:37:35
 28759 Bennett, E, 35F 5:37:36
 28760 Leaderman, S, 53M 5:37:36
 28761 Brennan, T, 50M 5:37:36
 28762 Sills, E, 29M 5:37:37
 28763 Banks, C, 43M 5:37:37
 28764 Bennett, P, 45M 5:37:37
 28765 Lucido, C, 42M 5:37:39
 28766 Odumody, C, 30F 5:37:39
 28767 Tomko, C, 29M 5:37:39
 28768 Bridgland, N, 25M 5:37:40
 28769 Gabonia, C, 66M 5:37:40
 28770 Nevill, A, 32M 5:37:41
 28771 Estrada, O, 40M 5:37:41
 28772 Wityk, L, 33F 5:37:41
 28773 Chretien, V, 36F 5:37:41
 28774 Ralston, D, 42M 5:37:42
 28775 Cronin, K, 40F 5:37:42
 28776 Bogni, D, 33M 5:37:43
 28777 Gelosa, A, 63M 5:37:43
 28778 Nakashima, L, 30F 5:37:44
 28779 Heyman, W, 50M 5:37:46
 28780 Diener, L, 26F 5:37:46
 28781 Shimeno, H, 36M 5:37:48
 28782 Chiocchi, S, 26F 5:37:50
 28783 Jawhary, A, 41M 5:37:52
 28784 Hidalgo-Olberding, I, 40F 5:37:55
 28785 Kropp, M, 31F 5:37:56
 28786 Pennacchi, N, 38M 5:37:56
 28787 Palumbo, A, 31M 5:37:56
 28788 Lehr, D, 55F 5:37:57
 28789 Ganzhorn, L, 36F 5:37:58
 28790 Pedot, B, 49M 5:37:58
 28791 Inkei, A, 33F 5:38:01
 28792 Cutler, B, 23F 5:38:01
 28793 Fanstone, W, 47M 5:38:01
 28794 Fanstone, J, 44F 5:38:01
 28795 Fraysse, A, 20M 5:38:03
 28796 Bruening, D, 22M 5:38:03
 28797 Uesaka, H, 38M 5:38:04
 28798 Aoki, Y, 32F 5:38:05
 28799 Cruz, R, 45M 5:38:05
 28800 Ramig, L, 48F 5:38:05
 28801 Takahashi, R, 58M 5:38:05
 28802 Brown, P, 47M 5:38:06
 28803 Van Leirsberghe, T, 20M 5:38:07
 28804 Juuti, M, 28F 5:38:08
 28805 Russeth, R, 42M 5:38:09
 28806 Manara, A, 37M 5:38:10
 28807 Jones, B, 52M 5:38:11
 28808 Tanoin, P, 18F 5:38:14
 28809 Barnard, A, 29F 5:38:15
 28810 Cazalet, G, 50M 5:38:15
 28811 Guzman, G, 54M 5:38:15
 28812 Schoneveld, M, 39F 5:38:16
 28813 Young, J, 34F 5:38:17
 28814 De Vries, A, 72M 5:38:17
 28815 Dixon, K, 26F 5:38:17
 28816 Bonacasa, A, 61M 5:38:17
 28817 Robertson, J, 39F 5:38:21
28818 Rees, P, 31F 5:38:21
 28819 Polito, J, 52M 5:38:21
 28820 Caiaffa, L, 34F 5:38:21
 28821 Monzani, G, 27F 5:38:24
 28822 Curtis, M, 40F 5:38:24
 28823 McCurdy, M, 32F 5:38:24
 28824 Montani, A, 26M 5:38:25
28825 Galvin, K, 32F 5:38:25
 28826 McCurdy, J, 30M 5:38:25
 28827 Kearney, P, 29F 5:38:25
 28828 Galvin, B, 34M 5:38:25
 28829 Stewart, C, 51M 5:38:26
 28830 Guglieri, L, 27F 5:38:27
 28831 Zefferi, C, 31F 5:38:27
 28832 Dessena, R, 24M 5:38:27
 28833 De Bellis, D, 32M 5:38:27
 28834 DeFrances, R, 65M 5:38:28
 28835 Hannigan, D, 33F 5:38:28
 28836 Vincent, T, 47F 5:38:31
 28837 Maldonado, G, 57M 5:38:32
 28838 Vidal, F, 69M 5:38:33
 28839 Okutsu, S, 57M 5:38:35
 28840 Simon, G, 40M 5:38:36
 28841 Aleotti, L, 55M 5:38:37
 28842 Wolff-Mcdonagh, P, 50F 5:38:37
 28843 Loeb, S, 30M 5:38:37
 28844 Fernandez, U, 29F 5:38:38
 28845 Conti, M, 40F 5:38:38
 28846 Albayati, S, 64M 5:38:39
 28847 Takemoto, K, 34F 5:38:40
 28848 Pirie, A, 42F 5:38:42
 28849 Schwartz, C, 60M 5:38:42
 28850 Dowell, T, 39F 5:38:46
 28851 Dowell, A, 40M 5:38:46
 28852 Hasegawa, Y, 34F 5:38:47
 28853 Benedetti, S, 43F 5:38:48
 28854 Cunego, G, 46M 5:38:48
 28855 Marinaro, F, 32M 5:38:48
 28856 Moten, B, 61F 5:38:49
 28857 Pittino, J, 53M 5:38:49
 28858 Touchot, B, 56M 5:38:51
 28859 Bertuzzi, L, 46M 5:38:53
 28860 Cunico, G, 51M 5:38:54
 28861 Akutsu, S, 42M 5:38:57
 28862 Cohen, L, 30F 5:38:57
 28863 Wilkey, J, 56M 5:38:58
 28864 Gaines, V, 51M 5:38:58
 28865 Nilsen, M, 40F 5:38:59
 28866 Holm, O, 45M 5:38:59
 28867 Tam, M, 26M 5:39:01
 28868 Hayes, J, 43M 5:39:02
 28869 Gillen, A, 30F 5:39:02
 28870 Pasuco, E, 40F 5:39:03
 28871 Watt, G, 35F 5:39:06
 28872 Lyons, P, 42M 5:39:06
 28873 Sofo, F, 55M 5:39:06
 28874 Villa, J, 54F 5:39:07
 28875 Fiore, C, 32F 5:39:07
 28876 Salter, K, 25F 5:39:08
 28877 Nickerson, L, 36F 5:39:08
 28878 Smart, S, 35M 5:39:08
 28879 Rappaport, S, 34F 5:39:10
 28880 Sofo, V, 45F 5:39:11
 28881 Natoli, G, 45F 5:39:11
 28882 Kuroiwa, A, 45M 5:39:12
 28883 Lawrence, M, 42M 5:39:12
 28884 Mueller, W, 50M 5:39:12
 28885 Carr, J, 34M 5:39:12
 28886 Lee, W, 22F 5:39:13
 28887 Barton, T, 22M 5:39:13
 28888 Dunn, J, 52M 5:39:14
 28889 Jaccarino, D, 37F 5:39:15
28890 Bieber, J, 40F 5:39:16
 28891 Buchsbaum, S, 25F 5:39:16
 28892 Yamao, M, 25F 5:39:17
 28893 Roy, B, 36F 5:39:18
 28894 Liefvengren, H, 45M 5:39:18
 28895 Leta, M, 32M 5:39:19
 28896 Brand, R, 46F 5:39:19
 28897 Wallace, H, 29F 5:39:20
 28898 Shendalman, L, 59M 5:39:20
 28899 Leigh, T, 37M 5:39:20
 28900 Fanelli, T, 67F 5:39:21
 28901 Jaeckle, M, 59F 5:39:22
 28902 Munro, J, 56M 5:39:26
 28903 Ho, T, 47M 5:39:26
 28904 Genovesi, S, 48F 5:39:27
 28905 Kay, F, 38F 5:39:27
 28906 Nolan, S, 37F 5:39:28
 28907 Du Toit, I, 36F 5:39:29
 28908 Hui, L, 42F 5:39:30
 28909 Wascura, J, 51M 5:39:31
 28910 Du Toit, P, 46M 5:39:32
 28911 Herczeg, A, 33F 5:39:32
 28912 Torres, E, 47M 5:39:33
 28913 Luna, S, 30F 5:39:35
 28914 Spevack, M, 54F 5:39:36
 28915 Epton, J, 32M 5:39:36
 28916 Spevack, A, 57M 5:39:36
 28917 Gotto, J, 39M 5:39:36
 28918 Kearny, J, 50F 5:39:37
 28919 Angeloni, M, 42F 5:39:37
 28920 Bortolot, V, 56M 5:39:38
 28921 Rapone, A, 61M 5:39:39
 28922 Waters, M, 41F 5:39:39
 28923 Glauberman, N, 52F 5:39:39
 28924 Creel, C, 36M 5:39:39
 28925 Tasker, V, 21F 5:39:41
 28926 Weait, J, 20M 5:39:41
 28927 Morgan, N, 27F 5:39:44
 28928 O'Brien, J, 37F 5:39:45
 28929 Berg, P, 30M 5:39:47
 28930 Warren, F, 57M 5:39:47
 28931 Taylor, M, 40M 5:39:47
 28932 Nunez, A, 38F 5:39:47
 28933 Legman, K, 38F 5:39:48
 28934 Huibert, C, 31F 5:39:48
 28935 Haury, R, 47M 5:39:49
 28936 Dukehart, E, 24M 5:39:52
 28937 Karayannides, D, 55M 5:39:52
 28938 Seal, Y, 26F 5:39:52
 28939 Yamamoto, J, 26F 5:39:52
 28940 Bond, S, 61F 5:39:53
 28941 Tabuchi, Y, 35F 5:39:53
 28942 Coenraad, M, 38F 5:39:53
 28943 Jacobs, A, 51M 5:39:54
 28944 Krenteras, N, 28M 5:39:54
 28945 Wolbert-Meyers, J, 38F 5:39:54
 28946 Song, J, 28F 5:39:54
 28947 Uitslag-Van Noort, M, 49F 5:39:54
 28948 Rasch, M, 27F 5:39:55
 28949 Maxwell, M, 24F 5:39:57
 28950 Blanco, L, 36M 5:40:02
 28951 Roden, G, 40M 5:40:03
 28952 Legrand, C, 29M 5:40:03
 28953 Wainwright, D, 49M 5:40:04
 28954 Nolan, M, 49F 5:40:05
 28955 Landy, N, 34F 5:40:05
 28956 Carbone, B, 40F 5:40:07
 28957 Lowe, J, 50M 5:40:08
 28958 Rogers, J, 22F 5:40:09
 28959 Golob, C, 33F 5:40:09
 28960 Davies, C, 31M 5:40:10
 28961 Lagedamont, M, 56M 5:40:10
 28962 Van Der Geest-De Rood, J, 39F 5:40:11
 28963 Robinson, T, 52M 5:40:11
 28964 Dupuis, J, 53F 5:40:12
 28965 Segal, A, 39F 5:40:12
 28966 Soleski, A, 42F 5:40:12
 28967 Dizier, M, 45F 5:40:12
 28968 Turford, P, 39M 5:40:12
 28969 Pitkaranta, A, 42F 5:40:12
 28970 Pascale, P, 44F 5:40:15
 28971 Palma, E, 25M 5:40:15
 28972 Rodriguez, D, 47F 5:40:17
 28973 Hunter, S, 27F 5:40:17
 28974 Jones, M, 43M 5:40:18
 28975 Naicker, J, 42M 5:40:19
 28976 Terlizzese, J, 38M 5:40:20
 28977 Anderson, E, 55M 5:40:20
 28978 Campocci, F, 56M 5:40:20
 28979 Cabral, L, 30F 5:40:27
 28980 Swarbrick, H, 37F 5:40:27
 28981 Shurgin, S, 48M 5:40:29
 28982 Fox, N, 26F 5:40:30
 28983 Mesard, M, 28M 5:40:30
 28984 Regorelli, M, 51M 5:40:31
 28985 Boselli, D, 21F 5:40:32
 28986 Jobba, L, 44F 5:40:32
 28987 Nakamura, T, 52M 5:40:35
 28988 Pond, D, 27M 5:40:36
 28989 Bitcon, D, 40M 5:40:38
 28990 Inomata, N, 42M 5:40:39
 28991 Kramedjian, A, 54M 5:40:41
 28992 Voss, S, 59M 5:40:41
 28993 Myrill, C, 44M 5:40:41
 28994 Schiemann, M, 28M 5:40:44
 28995 McDonald, J, 31M 5:40:44
 28996 Durif, C, 49M 5:40:44
 28997 Dretke, C, 31F 5:40:45
 28998 Grillet, B, 43F 5:40:45
 28999 Raty, V, 50F 5:40:45
 29000 Hickenlooper, S, 56M 5:40:45
 29001 Schiemann, O, 60M 5:40:46
 29002 Smith, M, 44F 5:40:46
 29003 Smith, J, 45M 5:40:47
 29004 Anderson, D, 47F 5:40:50
 29005 Atwell, J, 49M 5:40:50
 29006 Morgan, H, 24F 5:40:50
 29007 Huot, J, 23M 5:40:51
 29008 Tiso, C, 26M 5:40:51
 29009 Bendorius, P, 57M 5:40:51
 29010 Morris, L, 25F 5:40:51
 29011 Eichler, I, 40F 5:40:51
 29012 Beatty, B, 38F 5:40:51
 29013 Smith, D, 40F 5:40:52
 29014 Stevenson, J, 23F 5:40:52
 29015 Feinberg, R, 27F 5:40:52
 29016 Riedl, J, 33M 5:40:52
 29017 Mant, R, 24M 5:40:53
 29018 Goodrich, B, 49M 5:40:53
 29019 Dgiacomo, G, 43F 5:40:54
 29020 Neal, T, 48M 5:40:55
 29021 Hass, A, 48F 5:40:55
 29022 Velazquez, R, 38M 5:40:55
 29023 Brooks, G, 53F 5:40:55
 29024 Purcell, M, 48F 5:40:56
 29025 King, D, 28F 5:40:56
 29026 Todd, F, 34M 5:40:56
 29027 Sanders, A, 61M 5:40:56
 29028 Delhom Puig, R, 68M 5:40:56
 29029 Wallis, A, 29M 5:40:59
 29030 Rosen, R, 35M 5:41:01
 29031 Grill, S, 25F 5:41:01
 29032 Mehta, A, 24F 5:41:01
 29033 Sherman, A, 62M 5:41:02
 29034 Ryymin, M, 44M 5:41:02
 29035 Corona, C, 44F 5:41:03
 29036 Bochinski, K, 41M 5:41:04
 29037 Chun, G, 24M 5:41:07
 29038 Mora, S, 46F 5:41:09
 29039 Peugeot, M, 57F 5:41:11
 29040 Marshall, P, 58M 5:41:13
 29041 Bowbliss, J, 29M 5:41:14
 29042 Smith, L, 28F 5:41:17
 29043 Seahorn, V, 43F 5:41:18
 29044 Diaz, A, 61M 5:41:18
 29045 Burk, P, 44F 5:41:19
 29046 Thibodeaux, R, 38M 5:41:19
 29047 Klonowski, E, 42F 5:41:20
 29048 Harper, L, 38F 5:41:20
 29049 Hashimi, S, 40F 5:41:20
 29050 Sherbet, M, 34F 5:41:21
 29051 Oliveira, B, 38F 5:41:23
 29052 Pokorski, H, 27F 5:41:24
 29053 Dell, M, 28F 5:41:24
29054 Kono, M, 49F 5:41:26
 29055 Cawley, W, 27M 5:41:27
 29056 Jennerich, M, 30F 5:41:29
 29057 Yee, J, 39M 5:41:29
 29058 Sato, S, 26M 5:41:29
 29059 Finneran, V, 37F 5:41:29
 29060 Sato, K, 25F 5:41:30
 29061 Sato, K, 30M 5:41:30
 29062 Digilio, M, 23F 5:41:31
 29063 Svegard, D, 48M 5:41:31
 29064 Melendez, R, 45F 5:41:32
 29065 Blue, E, 54F 5:41:33
 29066 Calder, W, 58M 5:41:35
 29067 Kavouriadis, E, 34M 5:41:36
 29068 Sellitri, C, 40M 5:41:37
 29069 Wilson, J, 53M 5:41:38
 29070 Speck, D, 51F 5:41:40
 29071 Bryan, D, 51F 5:41:41
 29072 Bryan, A, 25F 5:41:41
 29073 Ginzel, M, 37M 5:41:43
 29074 Glasser, E, 33F 5:41:46
 29075 Portnoy, J, 33M 5:41:47
 29076 Matson, B, 28M 5:41:48
 29077 Petrecca, K, 29F 5:41:51
 29078 Mott, M, 37M 5:41:51
 29079 Raybould, K, 28F 5:41:52
 29080 Whitmee, S, 30F 5:41:54
 29081 Summer, H, 42M 5:41:54
 29082 Tighe, J, 40M 5:41:54
 29083 Smith, T, 32M 5:41:55
 29084 Ruiz, T, 56F 5:41:56
 29085 Tingen, T, 37M 5:41:56
 29086 Civiero, R, 44F 5:42:01
 29087 Haesaert, S, 26F 5:42:01
 29088 Chernack, A, 56M 5:42:02
 29089 Enquist, J, 43M 5:42:04
 29090 Klusmann, M, 45F 5:42:05
 29091 Mullady, J, 40M 5:42:05
 29092 Boutoille, D, 26M 5:42:06
 29093 Vontz, T, 34M 5:42:10
 29094 Manganello, J, 47M 5:42:11
 29095 Archibald, L, 24F 5:42:12
 29096 O'Brien, E, 41M 5:42:13
 29097 Ackerman, J, 33M 5:42:14
 29098 Parsons, T, 56M 5:42:15
 29099 Magee, S, 40M 5:42:16
 29100 Tsang, A, 45M 5:42:17
 29101 Mosolgo, B, 43M 5:42:19
 29102 Ursfalt, H, 46M 5:42:19
 29103 Mattone, R, 36M 5:42:19
 29104 Nykopp, Y, 48F 5:42:25
 29105 Lehuen, E, 45F 5:42:28
 29106 Marle, M, 61M 5:42:28
 29107 Sell, K, 54M 5:42:29
 29108 Gabbard, A, 32F 5:42:30
 29109 Hwee, D, 30M 5:42:32
 29110 Keefe, J, 30M 5:42:32
 29111 Plesa, P, 52M 5:42:33
 29112 Sperber, P, 43M 5:42:34
 29113 Gerkens, C, 49M 5:42:37
 29114 Leeuwen Van, M, 49M 5:42:37
 29115 Brockman, E, 37F 5:42:38
 29116 Lutece, M, 25M 5:42:38
 29117 Whitworth, E, 30F 5:42:39
 29118 Williams, M, 23F 5:42:40
 29119 Williams, D, 47M 5:42:42
 29120 Hames, C, 36F 5:42:44
 29121 Sturtewagen, M, 29M 5:42:45
 29122 Rhodes, T, 31F 5:42:48
 29123 Baguley, E, 50M 5:42:48
 29124 Heaton, M, 47F 5:42:50
 29125 Icaza, G, 43F 5:42:50
 29126 Galette, F, 30M 5:42:55
 29127 Zarouhliotis, H, 29F 5:42:56
 29128 Fields, M, 42F 5:42:56
 29129 Bowden, M, 29M 5:42:57
 29130 McNaughton, G, 45M 5:42:58
 29131 Giovannini, R, 68M 5:42:59
 29132 Gaughran, C, 26F 5:43:00
 29133 Nicola, A, 22M 5:43:00
 29134 Mizumoto, N, 42M 5:43:03
 29135 Eggel, C, 35F 5:43:05
 29136 Browne, S, 52M 5:43:05
 29137 Watkins, M, 45M 5:43:05
 29138 Speakman, J, 38F 5:43:12
 29139 Speakman, D, 47M 5:43:12
 29140 Churchill, M, 47F 5:43:13
 29141 Rothman, J, 49M 5:43:13
 29142 Hanagasaki, M, 23M 5:43:14
 29143 Badrinauth, R, 33F 5:43:14
 29144 Bloomberg, K, 52F 5:43:15
 29145 Sissman, M, 35M 5:43:15
 29146 Veres, T, 37M 5:43:15
 29147 Nilsson, S, 25F 5:43:18
 29148 Barrett, D, 30M 5:43:19
 29149 Harlow, R, 33M 5:43:19
 29150 Sheff, L, 37F 5:43:20
 29151 Payne, P, 30F 5:43:21
 29152 Oshinaya, J, 40M 5:43:21
 29153 Shahnazarian, C, 39F 5:43:22
 29154 Ferrer, G, 51M 5:43:22
 29155 Collas, A, 47M 5:43:23
 29156 Secondi, D, 47M 5:43:23
 29157 Stote, T, 26F 5:43:23
 29158 Slowik, C, 29M 5:43:24
 29159 Klimitz, J, 56M 5:43:24
 29160 Posey, C, 52M 5:43:30
 29161 Lagerstrom, M, 53F 5:43:33
29162 Milligan, D, 48F 5:43:34
 29163 Bellabe, C, 27F 5:43:35
 29164 Haymond, J, 62M 5:43:37
 29165 Henry, B, 50F 5:43:40
 29166 Drake, D, 57F 5:43:40
 29167 Grasso, F, 47M 5:43:40
 29168 Isenberg, J, 46F 5:43:41
 29169 Green, A, 26F 5:43:44
 29170 Bond, J, 29F 5:43:44
 29171 Da Silva, S, 42F 5:43:44
 29172 Horne, J, 30F 5:43:45
 29173 Lovik, R, 29M 5:43:45
 29174 Olla, A, 42F 5:43:46
 29175 Hokanson, L, 26F 5:43:47
 29176 Manson, R, 52M 5:43:48
 29177 Jones, P, 51F 5:43:50
 29178 Ng, S, 35F 5:43:52
 29179 Albertoni, A, 26M 5:43:53
 29180 Morrison, M, 30F 5:43:53
 29181 Bianchi, R, 26F 5:43:53
 29182 Custer, J, 45F 5:43:54
 29183 Delgado, M, 33M 5:43:54
 29184 Melendez, E, 23M 5:43:56
 29185 Pecoraro, D, 25F 5:43:57
 29186 De Flora, J, 31M 5:44:01
 29187 Nahas, P, 34F 5:44:01
 29188 Cassidy, J, 40M 5:44:03
 29189 Serra, R, 45M 5:44:05
29190 Mirri, M, 27M 5:44:06
 29191 Pini, M, 29M 5:44:06
 29192 Fitzpatrick, G, 55M 5:44:07
 29193 Volpicelli, J, 58M 5:44:09
 29194 Collins, E, 40F 5:44:09
 29195 Zweig, B, 49M 5:44:10
 29196 Stanley, J, 31M 5:44:10
 29197 Guerin, C, 49F 5:44:13
 29198 Gordon, C, 52F 5:44:13
 29199 Egan, K, 29M 5:44:15
 29200 Cassidy, C, 41F 5:44:15
 29201 Hayashi, K, 31F 5:44:15
 29202 Kono, H, 31M 5:44:18
 29203 Fujimoto, M, 31M 5:44:20
 29204 Taylor, A, 36F 5:44:21
 29205 Gegg, R, 54M 5:44:23
 29206 Hannon, R, 58M 5:44:24
 29207 Hayworth, M, 27M 5:44:24
 29208 Wynne, J, 39M 5:44:25
 29209 Bernstein, D, 36F 5:44:25
 29210 Wexler, L, 38F 5:44:26
 29211 Kroon-Kopelson, S, 42F 5:44:28
 29212 Dannunzio, S, 46F 5:44:30
 29213 Fry, R, 40F 5:44:30
 29214 Trascierra, E, 36F 5:44:31
 29215 Lachapelle, L, 52F 5:44:35
 29216 Jevens, A, 27F 5:44:36
 29217 Burnette, C, 25F 5:44:36
 29218 Millo, F, 46M 5:44:41
 29219 De Pina, H, 37M 5:44:41
 29220 Righetti, S, 48M 5:44:42
 29221 Vantini, A, 45F 5:44:42
 29222 Otis, J, 34M 5:44:43
 29223 Wills, N, 30F 5:44:44
 29224 Millot, C, 51F 5:44:44
 29225 McCallister, D, 54M 5:44:46
 29226 Ornstein, N, 28F 5:44:47
 29227 Arnoux, C, 49F 5:44:48
 29228 Arnoux, J, 47M 5:44:49
29229 Rheingold, P, 65M 5:44:51
 29230 Molinari, F, 29F 5:44:51
 29231 Molinari, S, 30M 5:44:52
 29232 Faggiani, E, 26M 5:44:52
 29233 Belanger, D, 39F 5:44:54
 29234 Eberstadt, G, 32M 5:44:56
 29235 Macpherson, J, 39M 5:44:57
 29236 Ellis, B, 58F 5:44:58
 29237 Nunes, A, 49F 5:44:58
 29238 Raessler, C, 49F 5:44:58
 29239 Simmons, M, 21F 5:44:59
 29240 Simmons, L, 23F 5:44:59
 29241 Plaza, M, 24M 5:45:01
 29242 Kramer, V, 39F 5:45:03
 29243 Tower, D, 48F 5:45:05
 29244 Andrews, D, 51M 5:45:05
 29245 Silva, S, 73M 5:45:06
 29246 Guldan, H, 32M 5:45:08
 29247 Boylan, J, 36M 5:45:08
 29248 Olson, B, 59M 5:45:10
 29249 Sato, N, 38F 5:45:11
 29250 Papazoglu, N, 40M 5:45:12
 29251 Brookes, R, 33M 5:45:14
 29252 Hudson, M, 27F 5:45:14
 29253 O'Brien, T, 34M 5:45:14
 29254 Rosas, N, 41F 5:45:15
 29255 Giorda, J, 49F 5:45:16
 29256 Maignan, E, 29F 5:45:19
 29257 DiPietro, S, 39M 5:45:19
 29258 Van Pelt, L, 29F 5:45:21
 29259 Burnett, F, 59M 5:45:22
 29260 Hirota, A, 29F 5:45:25
 29261 Gover, L, 57M 5:45:29
 29262 Iannotta, C, 41M 5:45:30
 29263 Uebler, U, 28F 5:45:31
 29264 Uebler, L, 35M 5:45:32
 29265 Crispino, B, 40M 5:45:32
 29266 Lax, D, 32M 5:45:34
 29267 Cottrell, P, 42M 5:45:35
 29268 Van Schaijik, M, 29M 5:45:35
 29269 Bonneau, L, 26M 5:45:35
 29270 Friedman, S, 38F 5:45:36
 29271 Legendre, J, 22M 5:45:37
 29272 Angell, K, 42M 5:45:37
 29273 Manning, M, 26F 5:45:40
 29274 Miller, D, 39M 5:45:41
 29275 Bishop, M, 22F 5:45:42
 29276 Bishop, N, 47M 5:45:42
 29277 Hattink, M, 26F 5:45:42
 29278 Thede, D, 40F 5:45:42
 29279 Stump, D, 51M 5:45:43
 29280 Tink, P, 67M 5:45:43
 29281 D'Anjou, G, 45M 5:45:45
 29282 Sedel Friol, D, 56F 5:45:45
 29283 Evertowski, L, 28F 5:45:46
 29284 Redford, R, 69M 5:45:48
 29285 Flaherty, J, 32F 5:45:50
 29286 Dodson, D, 40M 5:45:51
 29287 Tannehill, T, 43F 5:45:51
 29288 Eberlein, W, 29M 5:45:52
 29289 Alquier Gayraud, C, 49F 5:45:53
 29290 Sinclair, A, 24M 5:45:54
 29291 Liebel, G, 68M 5:45:57
 29292 Koemling, G, 58M 5:45:57
 29293 Gallardo, L, 52F 5:46:01
 29294 Padrock, R, 54F 5:46:03
 29295 Schmilewski, J, 50M 5:46:03
 29296 Toya, F, 41M 5:46:05
 29297 Renaudin, M, 41F 5:46:05
 29298 Cohenson, S, 39F 5:46:06
 29299 Cohenson, M, 39M 5:46:07
 29300 Martire, J, 47M 5:46:08
 29301 Carey, W, 67M 5:46:08
 29302 Zanelli, M, 34F 5:46:10
 29303 Cavan, J, 62M 5:46:11
 29304 Merk, J, 47M 5:46:11
 29305 Kahn, T, 29F 5:46:13
 29306 Giovannetti, G, 27F 5:46:15
 29307 Arroyo, I, 31F 5:46:20
 29308 Giannoni, M, 41F 5:46:23
 29309 Turnbull, A, 62M 5:46:23
 29310 Fezzuoglio, E, 23M 5:46:24
 29311 Graham, D, 49M 5:46:24
 29312 Altomare, A, 40M 5:46:25
 29313 Mishkin, N, 30F 5:46:28
 29314 Roney, B, 57F 5:46:30
 29315 Aragones, C, 45F 5:46:31
 29316 Yoshida, H, 39M 5:46:32
 29317 Tehrani, B, 35M 5:46:32
29318 Dadone, D, 58M 5:46:34
 29319 Kennedy, A, 34F 5:46:34
 29320 Imperiale, J, 49M 5:46:34
 29321 Lee, D, 35F 5:46:34
 29322 Lee, T, 37M 5:46:34
 29323 Friedman, J, 63M 5:46:37
 29324 Mendonca, R, 36F 5:46:38
29325 Thomas, M, 41F 5:46:44
 29326 Danne, P, 45M 5:46:44
 29327 Emery, G, 50F 5:46:45
 29328 Villanueva, L, 46M 5:46:45
 29329 Marshall, C, 39M 5:46:48
 29330 Geller, G, 28M 5:46:48
 29331 Nelson, J, 59M 5:46:50
 29332 Bringman, C, 29M 5:46:51
 29333 Snyder, W, 31M 5:46:51
 29334 Gallagher, D, 29F 5:46:52
 29335 Bullard, P, 37F 5:46:52
 29336 Goodman, M, 40F 5:46:52
 29337 Doherty, J, 31M 5:46:52
 29338 Rinne, S, 27F 5:46:53
 29339 Forssell, T, 33F 5:46:55
 29340 Portas, C, 27F 5:46:55
 29341 Kuenne, T, 40M 5:46:57
 29342 Myers, M, 31M 5:47:00
 29343 Peck, D, 26F 5:47:00
 29344 Henry, S, 53M 5:47:00
 29345 Porter, C, 43F 5:47:01
 29346 Grevelius, C, 26M 5:47:01
 29347 Schlauss, U, 55F 5:47:02
 29348 Schlauss, E, 55M 5:47:03
 29349 Spurgeon, L, 28F 5:47:03
 29350 Noble, S, 33M 5:47:03
 29351 Lucca, A, 49M 5:47:04
 29352 Barbeau, D, 51M 5:47:04
 29353 Barak, T, 64M 5:47:05
 29354 Mulford, R, 27F 5:47:07
 29355 Pathamanthan, K, 57M 5:47:07
 29356 D'Andrea, L, 38M 5:47:08
 29357 Miller, D, 50M 5:47:08
 29358 Schulman, E, 51F 5:47:09
 29359 Simon, N, 37F 5:47:10
 29360 Heckendorn, C, 43M 5:47:11
 29361 Fritsche, G, 52M 5:47:13
 29362 Haynes, J, 33M 5:47:14
 29363 Van Overveld, M, 28F 5:47:14
 29364 Oosterman, J, 44M 5:47:15
 29365 Leyte, H, 32F 5:47:15
 29366 Ohalloran, E, 51F 5:47:16
 29367 Tackitt, G, 52F 5:47:16
 29368 Oomen, P, 50M 5:47:17
 29369 Andersen, H, 51F 5:47:19
 29370 Shepard, G, 39F 5:47:22
 29371 Moha, J, 71M 5:47:27
 29372 Caprais, J, 46M 5:47:27
 29373 Stace, R, 29M 5:47:29
 29374 Johnson, T, 64M 5:47:30
 29375 Nattes, O, 30M 5:47:32
 29376 Islam, B, 57F 5:47:32
 29377 Astakhov, I, 34M 5:47:34
 29378 Kalandia, M, 48M 5:47:34
 29379 Farronato, C, 45F 5:47:34
 29380 Beeby, A, 25F 5:47:35
 29381 Melloni, G, 54M 5:47:35
 29382 Wong, T, 47M 5:47:36
 29383 Joncour, Y, 52F 5:47:36
 29384 Madey, J, 51M 5:47:37
 29385 Kiessner, U, 60F 5:47:38
 29386 Tanaka, S, 54M 5:47:39
 29387 Takayanagi, M, 61M 5:47:40
 29388 Tanaka, H, 49F 5:47:40
 29389 Palma, L, 20M 5:47:40
 29390 Lannak, S, 47F 5:47:40
 29391 Heule, R, 31M 5:47:40
 29392 Uhlmann, H, 34M 5:47:40
 29393 Blumer, U, 36M 5:47:46
29394 Tilly, P, 32M 5:47:47
 29395 Kelly, M, 34M 5:47:47
 29396 Spilberg, J, 53M 5:47:52
 29397 Joustra, Y, 33M 5:47:53
 29398 Nicola, S, 47F 5:47:54
 29399 LaForge, L, 51M 5:47:54
 29400 Thompson, M, 37F 5:47:55
 29401 Byron, B, 65F 5:47:55
 29402 Pietri, J, 55F 5:47:55
 29403 Rolin, J, 57M 5:47:56
 29404 Bettinger, E, 43F 5:47:56
 29405 Calistri, S, 51M 5:47:56
 29406 Amerini, G, 44M 5:47:57
 29407 Laren, P, 31F 5:47:57
 29408 Echeveste, R, 36M 5:47:59
 29409 Plantenga, C, 48F 5:47:59
 29410 Daza, F, 54F 5:47:59
 29411 Somers, T, 45M 5:48:00
 29412 Salvagno, R, 48M 5:48:00
 29413 Glen, J, 48F 5:48:00
 29414 Delattre, C, 38F 5:48:03
 29415 Makinen, R, 44M 5:48:03
 29416 Carlsen, R, 53M 5:48:04
 29417 Ghedi, O, 31M 5:48:04
 29418 Bailey, J, 41M 5:48:05
 29419 Byrne, T, 38M 5:48:06
 29420 Gefell, D, 31M 5:48:07
 29421 Del Rosario, M, 56M 5:48:11
 29422 Lennon, J, 47M 5:48:12
 29423 Hubner, P, 42F 5:48:13
 29424 McWilliams, J, 43M 5:48:13
 29425 Harry, P, 46F 5:48:14
 29426 Pistek, A, 31F 5:48:15
 29427 Middeloorp, A, 30M 5:48:16
 29428 Valsesia, U, 60M 5:48:16
 29429 Le Chevallier, G, 32M 5:48:16
 29430 Weng, J, 46M 5:48:17
 29431 Barrett, M, 39M 5:48:17
 29432 Ballarini, S, 53M 5:48:18
 29433 Lang, D, 64M 5:48:19
 29434 Tissot, P, 42M 5:48:19
 29435 Muehlhuber, W, 54M 5:48:20
 29436 Patterson, J, 40M 5:48:22
 29437 Borwick, A, 23F 5:48:22
 29438 Allen, B, 43M 5:48:25
 29439 Jost, S, 26F 5:48:26
 29440 Stolba, A, 38F 5:48:29
 29441 L'Huillier, V, 33F 5:48:29
 29442 Darragh, L, 26F 5:48:31
 29443 Chiodelli, E, 56M 5:48:33
 29444 Jones, S, 25F 5:48:33
 29445 Bodecchi, G, 34M 5:48:33
 29446 Dilone, P, 43M 5:48:34
 29447 Olsson, E, 31M 5:48:34
 29448 Bates, J, 34M 5:48:35
 29449 Fujii, K, 41M 5:48:39
 29450 Klawsnik, M, 38M 5:48:39
 29451 Freeman, P, 29M 5:48:40
 29452 Dodd, E, 33F 5:48:40
 29453 Simonnot, J, 51M 5:48:41
 29454 Walker, K, 57F 5:48:41
 29455 Kummer, Y, 33M 5:48:41
 29456 Strandlod, J, 26M 5:48:45
 29457 Stulberg, L, 54F 5:48:45
 29458 Moyer, K, 37F 5:48:46
 29459 Sease, D, 44F 5:48:48
 29460 Moyer, M, 32F 5:48:51
 29461 Brenner, J, 54F 5:48:51
 29462 Lieb, D, 33M 5:48:51
 29463 Briggs, L, 18F 5:48:52
 29464 Dignum, W, 33F 5:48:54
 29465 Beckwith, S, 39M 5:48:55
 29466 Wallack, M, 53M 5:48:59
 29467 Parker, J, 28F 5:49:01
 29468 Gonzalez, A, 34F 5:49:02
 29469 Witts, S, 32F 5:49:02
 29470 Nieves, V, 41M 5:49:02
 29471 Rossetti, F, 42M 5:49:03
 29472 Debellis, K, 40M 5:49:03
 29473 Lee, S, 42M 5:49:08
 29474 Marcais, M, 46F 5:49:11
 29475 Sheehan, N, 45M 5:49:12
 29476 Maher, J, 37M 5:49:12
 29477 Bryce, M, 48M 5:49:12
 29478 Brickner, A, 20F 5:49:14
 29479 Glass, S, 31F 5:49:14
 29480 Rothschild, A, 31F 5:49:15
 29481 Samios, G, 70M 5:49:15
 29482 Pontello, A, 57M 5:49:15
 29483 Oberbeck, M, 64M 5:49:16
 29484 Fontverne, C, 32M 5:49:17
 29485 Nuhn, A, 36F 5:49:18
 29486 Jeffers, J, 39F 5:49:19
 29487 Fox, S, 40M 5:49:19
 29488 Caruth, B, 44M 5:49:20
 29489 Minoli, S, 71F 5:49:20
 29490 Amato, G, 50F 5:49:21
29491 Amato, A, 24F 5:49:21
 29492 Stelling, M, 59F 5:49:22
 29493 Blitz, J, 59F 5:49:22
 29494 Bracci, M, 38M 5:49:23
 29495 Nembrini, M, 39F 5:49:24
 29496 Druckenmiller, E, 36F 5:49:25
 29497 Rodriguez, A, 28M 5:49:25
 29498 Pigny, G, 25M 5:49:26
 29499 Monnet, M, 55F 5:49:27
 29500 Monnet, J, 55M 5:49:27
 29501 Tarpey, M, 39M 5:49:29
 29502 Slick, K, 42F 5:49:29
 29503 Byrd, R, 26F 5:49:34
 29504 Kerkhoff, R, 36F 5:49:36
 29505 Platen, E, 35M 5:49:36
 29506 Gatti, M, 71M 5:49:37
 29507 Torres, D, 35F 5:49:39
 29508 Heningburg Jr., M, 33M 5:49:42
 29509 Chmielewski, T, 30F 5:49:44
 29510 Wasels, F, 50M 5:49:46
 29511 Delavalle, N, 48F 5:49:47
 29512 Oliff, R, 67M 5:49:48
 29513 Nyman, M, 41F 5:49:48
 29514 Falconer, J, 41F 5:49:50
 29515 Falconer, A, 41M 5:49:50
 29516 McAllister, K, 35M 5:49:53
 29517 Sager, V, 33F 5:49:54
 29518 Stehlik, S, 49F 5:49:55
 29519 Mesta, R, 54F 5:49:55
 29520 Jenson, M, 41F 5:50:09
 29521 Cohen, I, 30M 5:50:10
 29522 Schwartz, H, 58M 5:50:11
 29523 Giudici, G, 28M 5:50:12
 29524 Fisher, P, 48M 5:50:12
 29525 Murphy, J, 37F 5:50:13
 29526 Aoi, R, 49F 5:50:15
 29527 Marttinen, A, 50F 5:50:15
 29528 Ferreira, I, 45F 5:50:16
 29529 Johnsen, J, 27F 5:50:17
 29530 Schoenfeld, R, 45F 5:50:18
 29531 Shapiro, E, 46F 5:50:19
 29532 Garcia Velasco, G, 58M 5:50:21
 29533 Bryant, K, 49F 5:50:21
 29534 Mougin, A, 41F 5:50:22
 29535 Virlouvet, C, 43M 5:50:22
 29536 Mougin, D, 43M 5:50:23
 29537 Matsunaga, T, 37F 5:50:24
 29538 Colin, B, 53M 5:50:25
 29539 Yokoi, J, 31M 5:50:25
 29540 Richert, Y, 46F 5:50:31
 29541 Coyne, W, 76M 5:50:31
 29542 Linyard, G, 51F 5:50:35
 29543 Lee, R, 54M 5:50:36
 29544 Kawamura, T, 31M 5:50:36
 29545 Perry, M, 33F 5:50:37
 29546 Hardy, C, 47F 5:50:37
 29547 Jones, D, 38F 5:50:38
 29548 Luzzi, S, 41F 5:50:39
 29549 Gallardo, R, 49F 5:50:40
 29550 Burns, B, 51F 5:50:41
 29551 Calingasan, V, 29M 5:50:42
 29552 Pell, V, 29F 5:50:45
 29553 Grabars, E, 55M 5:50:46
 29554 Boeck, P, 49M 5:50:47
 29555 Slonaker, M, 42M 5:50:48
 29556 Walsh, G, 30F 5:50:48
 29557 Kurland, O, 42F 5:50:48
 29558 Lisby, M, 29M 5:50:49
 29559 Dimarco, A, 26F 5:50:50
 29560 Cadotte, R, 35M 5:50:51
 29561 Leonardos, M, 38F 5:50:52
 29562 Campbell, R, 46M 5:50:53
 29563 Szczesiul, S, 47M 5:50:54
 29564 Grillo, M, 29M 5:50:55
 29565 Silva, M, 41F 5:51:03
 29566 Pommeret, F, 49M 5:51:03
 29567 Burke, F, 32F 5:51:04
 29568 Burke, E, 36M 5:51:04
 29569 Ponda, A, 30M 5:51:05
 29570 Gerstner, R, 50M 5:51:06
 29571 Bottene, G, 51M 5:51:07
 29572 Brown, D, 53M 5:51:08
 29573 Rios Lanz, M, 29F 5:51:09
 29574 Beahm, J, 53F 5:51:09
 29575 Young, J, 51M 5:51:12
 29576 Otten, A, 48F 5:51:13
 29577 Rhodes, F, 63F 5:51:13
 29578 Greenberg, A, 62M 5:51:15
 29579 Kane, S, 51F 5:51:15
 29580 Carman, D, 52M 5:51:15
 29581 Kuderka, C, 50F 5:51:16
 29582 Wenmark, W, 50M 5:51:16
 29583 Hosein, E, 53M 5:51:17
 29584 Shime, K, 33M 5:51:24
 29585 Perez, Y, 46F 5:51:24
 29586 Hernandez, U, 51M 5:51:25
 29587 Gonzalez, E, 25M 5:51:26
 29588 O'Donovan, J, 39F 5:51:30
 29589 Kuraoka, N, 49M 5:51:31
 29590 Murdoch, J, 32M 5:51:31
 29591 Brooks, G, 33M 5:51:32
 29592 Robbins, B, 55M 5:51:35
 29593 Ashley, R, 26F 5:51:36
 29594 Espaillat, M, 49F 5:51:36
 29595 Cespedes, C, 54M 5:51:37
 29596 Suringar, A, 29F 5:51:37
 29597 Sheehan, J, 66M 5:51:38
 29598 Blanco, M, 27F 5:51:39
 29599 Lang, R, 52F 5:51:39
 29600 Fujieda, K, 68M 5:51:40
 29601 Dittberner-Hardt, M, 49F 5:51:44
 29602 Hardt, H, 45M 5:51:47
 29603 Pearson, M, 43F 5:51:48
 29604 Nemoto, R, 28F 5:51:50
 29605 July, L, 31M 5:51:51
 29606 Deloison, H, 35M 5:51:52
 29607 Kralle, D, 27F 5:51:52
 29608 Gerber, S, 33M 5:52:00
 29609 Day, K, 42F 5:52:01
 29610 Bluth, M, 53F 5:52:01
 29611 Jimenez, M, 60F 5:52:01
 29612 White, W, 32M 5:52:02
 29613 Siegel, T, 32M 5:52:03
 29614 Taylor, A, 51F 5:52:03
 29615 Taylor, V, 51M 5:52:06
 29616 Ishida, M, 41M 5:52:07
 29617 Guizzetti, L, 30F 5:52:07
 29618 Chin, C, 47F 5:52:07
 29619 Christian, G, 50M 5:52:08
 29620 Standish, S, 42F 5:52:10
 29621 Bloom, R, 68M 5:52:11
 29622 Weinman, A, 61F 5:52:11
 29623 Lazarowtiz, M, 30F 5:52:13
 29624 Cipollone, D, 35M 5:52:13
 29625 Minguez, M, 58M 5:52:17
 29626 Muscolo, A, 54M 5:52:18
 29627 Veneziano, A, 43M 5:52:22
 29628 Sunneborn, L, 68F 5:52:22
29629 Reyes Nieves, M, 22F 5:52:23
 29630 Mora Quesada, W, 49M 5:52:23
29631 Melendez, A, 56F 5:52:23
 29632 Mora Quesada, C, 45M 5:52:24
 29633 Takeda, H, 38M 5:52:24
 29634 Panvusyheva, N, 41F 5:52:25
 29635 Kolesnikov, G, 41M 5:52:25
 29636 Shimazaki, A, 50F 5:52:25
 29637 Shimazaki, A, 56M 5:52:27
 29638 Winston, J, 56F 5:52:28
 29639 Derosse, R, 23F 5:52:29
 29640 Balseiro, R, 59M 5:52:29
 29641 Cooksey, R, 63M 5:52:32
 29642 Bertola, I, 59M 5:52:32
 29643 Ambrosetti, E, 61M 5:52:33
 29644 Peschek, H, 57M 5:52:35
 29645 Rodrigvez, A, 36F 5:52:35
 29646 Bondanza, A, 27F 5:52:35
 29647 Carter, D, 47F 5:52:35
 29648 Garino, C, 58F 5:52:36
 29649 Garino, R, 60M 5:52:36
 29650 Williams, R, 50F 5:52:37
 29651 Williams, P, 58M 5:52:37
 29652 Shea, W, 51M 5:52:37
 29653 Bright, S, 47F 5:52:38
 29654 Reinertsen, S, 23F 5:52:38
 29655 Yajima, M, 40M 5:52:41
 29656 Kamm, L, 28F 5:52:42
 29657 Rhodes, E, 29F 5:52:44
 29658 Ginocchio, R, 31M 5:52:45
 29659 Wadwell, R, 56M 5:52:49
 29660 McGrath, J, 51M 5:52:49
 29661 Ogawa, T, 32M 5:52:50
 29662 Remari, I, 57M 5:52:51
 29663 Van Dyke, C, 50F 5:52:52
 29664 Araujo, J, 56F 5:52:53
 29665 Wermelinger, R, 33F 5:52:54
 29666 Bahadori, M, 40F 5:52:54
29667 Lombardo Jr., R, 32M 5:52:56
 29668 Cawthorne, M, 39F 5:52:57
 29669 Binetti, D, 48M 5:52:58
 29670 Campbell, E, 26F 5:52:59
 29671 Druckenmiller, E, 35F 5:53:03
 29672 Rizzotto, M, 59M 5:53:04
 29673 Siegel, M, 41M 5:53:05
 29674 Rundquist, D, 22M 5:53:07
 29675 Strandlod, M, 28F 5:53:09
 29676 Angelo, M, 31M 5:53:10
 29677 Agajanian, A, 19F 5:53:10
 29678 Costello, C, 41M 5:53:10
 29679 Bulock Jr, J, 46M 5:53:11
 29680 Denker, A, 47F 5:53:12
 29681 Intiso, D, 43F 5:53:14
 29682 Borges, L, 53F 5:53:14
 29683 Dalton, K, 50F 5:53:14
 29684 Sonenschein, P, 52M 5:53:15
 29685 Abueg, M, 33M 5:53:17
 29686 McGill, L, 26F 5:53:18
 29687 Ippers, U, 48F 5:53:22
 29688 Niphon, C, 19F 5:53:22
 29689 De La Bastida, M, 19F 5:53:22
 29690 Djellali, A, 19F 5:53:23
 29691 Hindaoui, S, 19F 5:53:24
 29692 Beekhuizen, A, 54M 5:53:25
 29693 Bell, J, 45F 5:53:25
 29694 Miyata, R, 30F 5:53:26
 29695 Balduzzi, M, 28F 5:53:27
29696 Coramusi, F, 28F 5:53:28
 29697 Elliott, H, 47F 5:53:28
 29698 James, K, 30F 5:53:29
 29699 James, A, 35M 5:53:30
 29700 Vanginneken, M, 45M 5:53:30
 29701 Scordato, D, 35M 5:53:31
 29702 Cornnell, C, 31M 5:53:31
 29703 Ferry, C, 33F 5:53:31
 29704 Deppierraz, M, 34F 5:53:32
 29705 Grossman, F, 63M 5:53:32
 29706 Boyd, N, 51F 5:53:33
 29707 Brown, K, 50F 5:53:33
 29708 Kahil, C, 26F 5:53:34
 29709 Kahil, S, 23F 5:53:34
 29710 Muenzer, B, 36F 5:53:34
 29711 Mathe, J, 32M 5:53:35
 29712 Fazio, F, 36M 5:53:36
 29713 Martin, E, 33F 5:53:36
 29714 Vidal, J, 37M 5:53:36
 29715 Evanitsky, P, 45F 5:53:37
 29716 Arnegard, F, 34M 5:53:37
 29717 Eaton, K, 40F 5:53:37
 29718 Kats, C, 51M 5:53:38
 29719 Van Wyland, H, 56M 5:53:38
 29720 Lotte, M, 51M 5:53:39
 29721 Van Wyland, P, 24M 5:53:41
 29722 Haskell, S, 38M 5:53:43
 29723 Fraytet, J, 51F 5:53:45
 29724 Inoue, S, 33M 5:53:45
 29725 Menzel, O, 26F 5:53:47
 29726 Menzel, J, 57M 5:53:48
 29727 Ortiz, E, 27M 5:53:48
 29728 Wolfgramm, M, 35M 5:53:51
 29729 Richards, D, 45M 5:53:53
 29730 Bouzoukashvili, M, 56M 5:53:54
 29731 Bohanon, D, 49F 5:53:56
 29732 Cicero, P, 47M 5:53:56
 29733 Meyer, J, 58M 5:53:57
 29734 Meyer, J, 31M 5:53:57
 29735 Pauly, H, 41F 5:53:58
 29736 Spriggs, H, 25F 5:54:02
 29737 Kishi, T, 32M 5:54:05
 29738 Everett, C, 46M 5:54:05
 29739 Summers, J, 41M 5:54:06
 29740 Riccardi, B, 27M 5:54:06
 29741 Kubo, S, 34M 5:54:07
 29742 Feldman, G, 45M 5:54:07
 29743 Cunningham, S, 43F 5:54:08
 29744 Hurff, S, 35F 5:54:10
 29745 Crawford, K, 30F 5:54:11
 29746 Williams, M, 38M 5:54:12
 29747 Reid, D, 54M 5:54:12
 29748 Keating, L, 31F 5:54:14
 29749 Marin, B, 47F 5:54:14
 29750 Zaini, A, 39M 5:54:14
 29751 Orhand, L, 58F 5:54:15
 29752 Purcaro, A, 23F 5:54:25
 29753 Purcaro, J, 27F 5:54:25
 29754 Purcaro, E, 50M 5:54:25
 29755 Langevin, E, 46F 5:54:26
29756 Chenoweth, P, 52M 5:54:27
 29757 Marin, A, 30M 5:54:27
 29758 Garry, P, 49F 5:54:32
 29759 Vanrossum, A, 44F 5:54:36
 29760 Cohen, K, 25F 5:54:37
 29761 Cohen, P, 26M 5:54:37
 29762 Toro, R, 46F 5:54:38
 29763 Dunne, M, 32M 5:54:40
 29764 Brestlin, C, 29F 5:54:42
 29765 Blanco, A, 64M 5:54:46
 29766 Kolev, K, 37M 5:54:49
 29767 Mizoguchi, S, 32M 5:54:50
 29768 Mizoguchi, C, 25F 5:54:50
 29769 Kittner, R, 24F 5:54:51
 29770 Kittner, N, 21F 5:54:52
 29771 Healy, C, 53F 5:54:54
 29772 Boninsegna, L, 56M 5:54:55
 29773 Fessenden, L, 43F 5:55:02
 29774 Foley, P, 56M 5:55:03
 29775 Escalante Martinez, T, 42F 5:55:06
 29776 Dell, S, 47M 5:55:06
 29777 Kaplan, G, 46M 5:55:07
 29778 Persaud, A, 37M 5:55:08
 29779 Mallin, E, 34F 5:55:09
 29780 Vosberg, J, 45F 5:55:11
 29781 Poirier, M, 46F 5:55:14
 29782 Young, T, 60M 5:55:15
 29783 Young, T, 26M 5:55:15
 29784 Young, D, 28M 5:55:15
 29785 Merola, E, 39F 5:55:15
 29786 Studer, B, 35M 5:55:17
 29787 Fullshire, L, 50F 5:55:22
 29788 Seppanen, T, 54F 5:55:23
 29789 Gowar, D, 53M 5:55:23
 29790 Fernandes, E, 41F 5:55:26
 29791 Blass, P, 33M 5:55:30
 29792 Minuti, A, 29F 5:55:30
 29793 Miller, L, 37F 5:55:30
 29794 Foote, T, 44F 5:55:31
 29795 Davies, T, 59F 5:55:32
 29796 Zalkin, R, 71M 5:55:36
 29797 Tochiya, M, 64M 5:55:37
 29798 Tochiya, R, 55F 5:55:43
 29799 Yates, D, 56M 5:55:44
 29800 Duffy, L, 40F 5:55:46
 29801 Hawco, K, 48M 5:55:47
 29802 Goldmeier, B, 34M 5:55:48
 29803 Abrary, N, 22F 5:55:53
 29804 Casey, T, 41M 5:55:54
 29805 Lowitt, S, 64M 5:55:55
 29806 Miller, A, 59M 5:55:56
 29807 Diener, S, 52M 5:55:56
 29808 Salsi, C, 41F 5:55:57
 29809 Ianello, S, 39M 5:55:58
 29810 Kerr, J, 29F 5:55:58
 29811 Kerr, D, 57M 5:55:58
 29812 Kelley, P, 38F 5:56:04
 29813 Semel, J, 57F 5:56:04
 29814 Anderson, F, 22F 5:56:04
 29815 Frame, M, 39F 5:56:05
 29816 Frame, J, 42M 5:56:05
 29817 Alonso-Garcia, C, 32F 5:56:06
 29818 Smidt, E, 31M 5:56:06
 29819 Smidt, N, 30F 5:56:08
 29820 Weisner, D, 51M 5:56:09
29821 Vigouroux, C, 58M 5:56:09
 29822 Noonan, E, 55F 5:56:11
 29823 Cosenza, A, 38M 5:56:14
 29824 Casey, B, 28M 5:56:14
 29825 Gobbo, A, 21F 5:56:15
 29826 Argnani, R, 32M 5:56:15
 29827 Hakid, K, 32M 5:56:15
29828 Hobbs, C, 42M 5:56:16
 29829 Bigel, M, 36M 5:56:17
 29830 Parzen, S, 30M 5:56:18
 29831 George, V, 47F 5:56:21
 29832 Youtsey, T, 36M 5:56:23
 29833 Burke, R, 69M 5:56:26
 29834 Barker, K, 34F 5:56:27
 29835 Moore, E, 40F 5:56:29
 29836 Gordon, E, 41F 5:56:30
 29837 Gamero, G, 61M 5:56:32
 29838 Menaggia, G, 42M 5:56:32
 29839 Freedman, M, 32F 5:56:34
 29840 Barret, G, 33F 5:56:40
 29841 White, R, 18F 5:56:40
 29842 Gough, B, 54M 5:56:45
 29843 Cattaneo, D, 63M 5:56:46
 29844 Carter, P, 66M 5:56:47
 29845 Smith, W, 46F 5:56:47
 29846 Cortes, E, 44F 5:56:48
 29847 Koschwitz, S, 37F 5:56:53
 29848 Gauthier, N, 43F 5:56:55
 29849 Herbert, J, 37M 5:56:57
 29850 Whatley, M, 25M 5:56:57
 29851 Bhanderi, M, 40M 5:56:59
 29852 Cummings, K, 28F 5:56:59
 29853 Malek, K, 26M 5:56:59
 29854 Aspden, G, 22M 5:57:00
 29855 Goodman, P, 54F 5:57:02
 29856 Nielsen, P, 31M 5:57:02
 29857 Helle, M, 39F 5:57:04
 29858 Shimmel, A, 34F 5:57:04
 29859 Klopper, C, 41F 5:57:06
 29860 Bolwerk, E, 44M 5:57:07
 29861 Briceno, L, 60M 5:57:07
 29862 Sapseid, G, 42F 5:57:07
 29863 Hughes-Jones, G, 41M 5:57:09
 29864 Harris, K, 32M 5:57:09
29865 Altman, S, 30M 5:57:10
 29866 Ozgu, M, 29M 5:57:10
 29867 Droogan, C, 29F 5:57:10
 29868 Lambe, R, 29M 5:57:11
 29869 Perless, R, 61M 5:57:11
 29870 Schmidt, T, 45M 5:57:11
 29871 Santana, A, 37F 5:57:12
 29872 Forte, M, 52M 5:57:12
 29873 Rosci, A, 28M 5:57:12
 29874 Baldini, L, 23M 5:57:13
 29875 Finley, R, 51F 5:57:14
 29876 Finley, E, 29F 5:57:14
 29877 Beckles, D, 31M 5:57:15
 29878 Wagt, E, 30M 5:57:17
 29879 McKeown, R, 35M 5:57:18
 29880 Mazuka, S, 52M 5:57:19
 29881 Gonzalez, G, 60F 5:57:20
 29882 Li, E, 40M 5:57:21
 29883 Dami, A, 50M 5:57:22
 29884 Steinman, M, 34M 5:57:22
 29885 Fortin Keefe, N, 38F 5:57:22
 29886 Garcia Moreno, H, 40M 5:57:24
 29887 Seele, G, 55M 5:57:24
 29888 Keaney, M, 32M 5:57:24
 29889 Dickerson, T, 34M 5:57:25
 29890 Richards, J, 24M 5:57:25
 29891 Richards, V, 28F 5:57:25
 29892 Ahlstrom, C, 29F 5:57:26
 29893 Andrews, T, 38M 5:57:26
 29894 Nathan, W, 45M 5:57:31
29895 Crockenberg, S, 50F 5:57:31
 29896 Endo, M, 36F 5:57:34
 29897 Croce, M, 63F 5:57:35
 29898 Eromosele, M, 44M 5:57:35
 29899 Young, U, 41F 5:57:36
 29900 Silver, N, 48F 5:57:38
 29901 Ames, S, 37F 5:57:38
29902 Gutierrez, E, 50M 5:57:40
 29903 Heaney, T, 59M 5:57:40
 29904 Quimby, C, 44M 5:57:43
 29905 Hadden, J, 30M 5:57:45
 29906 Dischiena, N, 49M 5:57:46
 29907 Bavanandan, R, 36M 5:57:47
 29908 McGuinness, N, 52M 5:57:48
 29909 McLean, D, 29M 5:57:49
 29910 Hewins, B, 17M 5:57:50
29911 Master, R, 45M 5:57:51
 29912 Montoro, C, 57F 5:57:52
 29913 Montoro, J, 62M 5:57:53
 29914 Troisi, C, 52F 5:57:53
 29915 Decaro, E, 54M 5:57:54
 29916 Weston, S, 37M 5:57:54
 29917 Oginsky, P, 36M 5:57:54
 29918 Holden, J, 37M 5:57:55
 29919 Harrison, D, 35M 5:57:55
 29920 Morris, J, 51M 5:57:55
 29921 Mazuka, K, 49F 5:57:56
 29922 Ackroyd, C, 33M 5:58:09
 29923 Leigh, A, 36F 5:58:10
 29924 Ferraris, D, 52F 5:58:10
 29925 Gattoni, M, 27F 5:58:11
 29926 Vonhollander, M, 41F 5:58:11
 29927 Reilly, P, 60M 5:58:12
 29928 Blair, T, 52M 5:58:12
 29929 Covey, D, 43M 5:58:15
 29930 Burgio, M, 47M 5:58:16
 29931 Burgess, B, 33F 5:58:18
 29932 Hulett, A, 39F 5:58:19
 29933 Blythe, M, 35F 5:58:20
 29934 Soter, W, 65M 5:58:20
 29935 Gobbin, J, 57M 5:58:21
 29936 Binder, H, 31M 5:58:21
 29937 Jansen, F, 70M 5:58:22
 29938 Sluyter, J, 56M 5:58:23
 29939 La-Magra, V, 41M 5:58:24
 29940 Hughes, T, 40F 5:58:28
 29941 Welch, W, 27M 5:58:32
 29942 Chavez, J, 54M 5:58:32
 29943 Atique, M, 30M 5:58:33
 29944 Gomez, J, 21M 5:58:33
 29945 Rodriguez, M, 36M 5:58:33
 29946 Crespo, X, 49F 5:58:33
 29947 Seta, T, 34M 5:58:34
 29948 Gatti, A, 69F 5:58:41
 29949 Fioole, S, 38M 5:58:41
 29950 McGruder, B, 70F 5:58:42
 29951 Bondanza, S, 29F 5:58:42
 29952 Rasmussen, K, 50F 5:58:45
 29953 Sweetland, J, 51M 5:58:46
 29954 Martcheva, V, 27F 5:58:47
 29955 Kilmer, T, 56M 5:58:47
 29956 Dovesi, P, 56M 5:58:48
 29957 Kolb, A, 71M 5:58:49
 29958 Vandegraaf, R, 23M 5:58:51
 29959 Koiter, C, 21F 5:58:51
 29960 Hatton, B, 55M 5:58:53
 29961 Lametti, A, 40F 5:58:56
 29962 Kobayashi, A, 42M 5:59:00
 29963 Lekas, A, 29F 5:59:02
 29964 Kemmerer, B, 50M 5:59:02
 29965 Watt, D, 41M 5:59:02
 29966 Nilsson, A, 62F 5:59:03
 29967 Dallas, B, 49M 5:59:03
 29968 Chukwudebe, A, 42M 5:59:04
 29969 Kupersmit, L, 56M 5:59:08
 29970 Franceschi, G, 52M 5:59:10
 29971 Polito, F, 41M 5:59:12
 29972 Layfield, J, 27M 5:59:13
 29973 Vanturini, J, 59F 5:59:16
 29974 Ciccone, C, 56F 5:59:17
 29975 Krebs, N, 50F 5:59:19
 29976 Signore, A, 57M 5:59:20
 29977 Toesca, A, 32F 5:59:20
 29978 Matsuo, K, 32M 5:59:21
 29979 Hayashi, R, 32F 5:59:22
 29980 Kramer, N, 43F 5:59:22
 29981 Macvaugh, P, 52F 5:59:22
 29982 Farrel, P, 50F 5:59:23
 29983 Hoover, A, 41F 5:59:24
 29984 Veil, R, 66M 5:59:25
 29985 Cooper, A, 57F 5:59:26
 29986 Conrad, L, 46F 5:59:27
 29987 Kalin, D, 46M 5:59:28
 29988 Mandart, J, 18M 5:59:28
 29989 Krayboon, N, 20F 5:59:29
 29990 Ford, C, 69M 5:59:33
 29991 Chae, E, 22F 5:59:34
 29992 Yee, B, 28M 5:59:36
 29993 Appelt, C, 54F 5:59:37
 29994 Makinohara, T, 59M 5:59:37
 29995 Otten, G, 44M 5:59:37
 29996 Campion, C, 51F 5:59:38
 29997 Anderson, D, 47F 5:59:39
 29998 Whiteaker, A, 40M 5:59:39
 29999 Hughes, T, 61M 5:59:40

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS (79%); MARATHONS (79%); 

PERSON: MENDES FILHO (57%); MELLO NETO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998



76 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
London Futures Exchange to Reorganize

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Under pressure to make its trading system faster and cheaper, the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange announced a sweeping reorganization today intended to cut its operating costs in half by the end of next year. The changes will mean a loss of 600 of its 1,000 jobs.
The announcement was the latest indication that the exchange, known as Liffe, is under growing pressure -- predominantly from the new German-Swiss Eurex futures exchange -- to accelerate its move toward screen-based trading and away from the slower and more costly open-outcry system. 
 Brian Williamson, the new chairman of the exchange, said it "needs to act decisively and quickly" against sharp competition. The London derivatives market, once unchallenged as the biggest of its kind in Europe, has been under increasing pressure since the Deutsche Terminborse, Frankfurt's futures market, seized control of the benchmark 10-year German bond market earlier this year.
With the creation of a German-Swiss electronic futures exchange, Liffe has been caught up in such competition between European exchanges in advance of the January introduction of the euro, the single European currency, which will change European trading by creating huge bond and stock markets denominated in the new currency.
Liffe executives said at a news conference today that the reorganization would proceed on three levels: cost savings, including a cut in the number of employees to 400 by the end of 1999; a quest for new partners in different time zones, and changes in regulations now modeled on the Chicago trading-pit exchanges.
"It is clear that nothing remotely like our current cost base is sustainable and that we shall have to cut jobs to remain competitive," Mr. Williamson said. The cuts are supposed to reduce the exchange's operating budget to about $100 million by the end of 1999 from more than $200 million now. "We have to deliver an efficient trading platform and products that our customers want at a price they are prepared to pay," he said. "It is clear we shall have to cut jobs to remain competitive."
Liffe executives declined to comment on potential new partners. In the past, traders have spoken of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as a possible partner, mirroring negotiations reportedly under way between Frankfurt-based futures traders and the Chicago Board of Trade.
Liffe and the London Clearing House have also discussed closer cooperation. Mr. Williamson also said that "one of the strategies is to talk to Chicago and Frankfurt."
He is scheduled to travel to Chicago this week, but ruled out an announcement there. "We have a program starting quite soon where we will take up offers of interest and we will initiate talks," Mr. Williamson said.
The third aspect of the changes involves drawing up regulations for automated trading, Liffe executives said.
The announcement showed how much the introduction of the euro is pushing markets into alliances beyond their traditional boundaries. Frankfurt and London have become the main rivals for derivatives trading, while some smaller futures exchanges, such as the Matif in Paris, have thus far been squeezed out.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONDON INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL FUTURES AND OPTIONS EXCHANGE CME GROUP INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONDON INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL FUTURES AND OPTIONS EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES FUTURES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); EURO (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (65%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN BRIAN WILLIAMSON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



77 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Discusses War in Congo With Zambia

BYLINE: Agence France-Presse 

DATELINE: LUSAKA, Zambia, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The United States Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, Susan E. Rice, began talks today on the conflict in Congo with President Frederick Chiluba of Zambia, who wants a peaceful settlement.
Ms. Rice met with Mr. Chiluba after talks with Deputy Foreign Minister Valentine Kayope as part of a seven-nation tour, which brought her to Lusaka from Kinshasa, Congo's capital, late Sunday. She left here later today for Zimbabwe for more consultations. 
 Several African countries have sent troops to join the war in Congo, where President Laurent Kabila's forces have been battling the Tutsi-led rebels who have seized much of the eastern part of the vast, impoverished but resource-rich country.
Mr. Kabila won control of the country in May 1997 after his Rwandan-backed forces ousted Mobutu Sese Seko, the longtime dictator of the country, which was then known as Zaire. Mr. Kabila has since broken ties with Rwanda, which is now believed to be supporting the rebellion against him.
Ms. Rice told Zambian officials today that the United States thanked their Government for its leadership in working with the Southern African Development Community and the Organization of African Unity to try to achieve a settlement.
"We hope very much in the near term to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis," she said. "There is absolutely no military solution which is viable," she added.
Mr. Kayope said the conflict is of great concern to Zambia because his country shares a border of more than 1,350 miles along five of its nine provinces.
He added that what happens in Congo "therefore has real and immediate consequences on Zambia, affecting our national security, economic interests and ethnic ties."
A meeting in Lusaka last week brought together foreign and defense ministers from countries backing Mr. Kabila, including Zimbabwe, Angola and Namibia, as well as countries that are believed to be providing military and political support for the rebels, particularly Rwanda and Uganda. Nations perceived as neutral, including Zambia and Tanzania, also took part.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ZAMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RWANDA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UGANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: LUSAKA, ZAMBIA (56%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (55%); AFRICAN UNION (55%); SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (55%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (55%); AFRICAN UNION (55%); SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (55%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); ZAMBIA; ZAMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (94%); RWANDA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UGANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); LUSAKA, ZAMBIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ZAMBIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CHILUBA, FREDERICK (PRES); RICE, SUSAN E (ASST SEC) SUSAN RICE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



78 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
French Bottler of Water Buying a U.S. Rival

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Widening its reach in the bottled-water business, Groupe Danone announced yesterday that it was buying the Aqua Penn Spring Water Company for $112 million, or $13 a share.
The move gives Groupe Danone, of Paris, access to three spring-water sources in Florida, California and Pennsylvania in addition to the Utah and Quebec springs it now uses for its Dannon brand of bottled water, which is distributed nationwide. 
 It also links Danone for the first time to big customers like McDonald's, where Aqua Penn sells bottled water in some areas, and doubles the company's production capacity in the United States, a spokesman, Michael Neuwirth, said. "We will remain focused on the fastest-growing and most profitable segment, natural spring water in packages of 1.5 liters or smaller," he said.
Aqua Penn water will now be packaged under the Dannon label, which Danone introduced as a cheaper alternative to Evian, its imported brand. Groupe Danone's American depository receipts rose 37.5 cents yesterday, to $53; shares of Aqua Penn were up sharply, gaining $2.9375, to $12.625.
The acquisition, which Aqua Penn's founder and chairman, Edward J. Lauth 3d, described in a statement as "a tremendous opportunity for our shareholders, employees and customers," is the latest example of the surging demand for bottled water.
The noncarbonated water business grew by 13 percent last year, said John D. Sicher, publisher of Beverage Digest, while sales of single-serving packages jumped 25 percent. Pepsico began national distribution of its own brand, a filtered water called Aquafina, earlier this year.
Aquafina, which is made by running tap water through filtration systems in bottling plants, has become the sixth-biggest brand in grocery stores, a company spokesman, Larry Jabbonsky, said, citing data compiled by Information Resources Inc. through early October.
Many in the beverage industry expect Coca-Cola to introduce a competing product before long. "It would make a great deal of sense," Mr. Sicher said. "I think they're going to do it in the first quarter of 1999."
A spokeswoman for Coke refused to confirm the speculation. "At any given time, we're looking at a whole host of opportunities and we don't comment on anything," the spokeswoman, Polly Howes, said.
Coca-Cola already packages and sells a bottled water called Bonaqua in 35 countries. Analysts and others said getting into the water business in the United States had been deliberately slow because Coke executives wanted to be sure the economic model would work.
Bill Pecoriello of Sanford C. Bernstein said bottled water would be a good strategic move for Coke. "You can't ignore water right now," he said. "You can put the brand marketing of Coke to work, with Coke owning the brand and using their skill on the marketing side, and give the bottlers a water that works with their economics and their operations."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (97%); BN (PAR) (97%); KO (NYSE) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: AQUA PENN SPRING WATER CO; GROUPE DANONE DANONE SA (FRANCE) (97%); INFORMATION RESOURCES INC (65%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); PEPSICO INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AQUA PENN SPRING WATER CO; GROUPE DANONE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BOTTLED WATER (95%); BOTTLED WATER MFG (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); BRANDING (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); BEVERAGE MFG (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (72%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



79 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Again Off Sharply As 30-Year Yield Hits 5.25%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bonds tumbled for a second session yesterday, and the yield on the 30-year bond rose to a six-week high as gains in global stocks, a weaker dollar and sales of $79 billion of new Government debt this week dampened demand for Treasuries.
The benchmark long bond plunged 1 14/32, to 103 26/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.25 percent, the highest since Sept. 15, from 5.15 percent. 
 Declines in global stocks, prompted by Russia's debt default and currency devaluation in August, sent investors rushing to the safety of Treasury debt. That sparked a rally, which sent 30-year bond yields to a 31-year low of 4.69 percent on Oct. 5.
Now, with stability returning after two interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve and plans by the Group of Seven industrialized nations, announced on Friday, to help ease financial turmoil -- including increased lending to emerging-market nations -- Treasuries are losing some of their appeal, traders said. Moreover, a revival of demand for corporate debt sapped some buying of Treasuries.
"It's a reverse of the flight to quality," said Richard Schwartz, who oversees $21 billion in bonds at New York Life Asset Management in Parsippany, N.J.
Bonds briefly pared losses after the National Association of Purchasing Management said its monthly manufacturing index fell to 48.3 for October from 49.4 a month earlier, a sign the economy is losing steam.
"The realities of rallying stock markets and the Treasury's quarterly refunding will, at the end of the day, be what weighs on U.S. Treasuries," said Patrick Dimick, a Treasury market analyst at Warburg Dillon Read Inc. in Stamford, Conn.
The Treasury kicked off auctions yesterday, with sales of $8 billion each of three- and six-month bills, and $25 billion of 79-day cash-management bills. As part of its quarterly sales, it will auction $16 billion of five-year notes today, $12 billion of 10-year notes tomorrow and $10 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday.
Following are the results of the auction for three- and six-month bills and 79-day cash-management bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.881	97.796	High Rate	4.42%	4.36%	Investment Rate	4.53%	4.52%	Low Rate	4.35%	4.28%	Median Rate	4.42%	4.33%	Total applied for	$28,732,944	$26,865,434	Accepted	$11,390,402	$12,245,634	Noncompetitive	$1,321,145	$1,158,564	
 
Both issues are dated Nov. 5, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 4, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on May 6, 1999.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 98.975
Investment rate: 4.78%
High rate: 4.67%
Low rate: 4.60%
Median rate: 4.64%
Total applied for: $53,976,620
Accepted: $25,000,370
Noncompetitive: $7,620
 
The 79-day cash-management bills mature Jan. 21, 1999.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); AUCTIONS (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); 

PERSON: RICHARD SCHWARTZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



80 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Russian Stir on Unsurprising Issue: Corruption

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Russia's capital city, which has seemed unwilling to muster even medium dudgeon anymore on questions of politicians and politics, is suddenly buzzing over an allegation that virtually all Muscovites regard as a given: that the Government is corrupt.
The accuser is Grigory A. Yavlinsky, a respected if ideological reformer and legislator who was the first politician to tout Yevgeny M. Primakov for the post of Prime Minister last month. 
 Today, in a move blunt even by the bare-knuckled rules of Russian political debate, Mr. Yavlinsky gave Mr. Primakov a letter seeking investigations of the conduct of his two highest-ranking aides, two subordinates directly beneath them, and a ranking official of the State Tax Service.
The letter is signed by three members of Mr. Yavlinsky's Yabloko political faction, which holds a sliver of seats in the lower house of Parliament. But the message belonged to Mr. Yavlinsky himself, who said at a news conference tonight that "corruption is an absolutely rotting element of all power bodies, and probably most of all in the Russian Government."
Among 16 specific charges, Mr. Yavlinsky's letter questions whether First Deputy Prime Minister Yuri D. Maslyukov, a Communist and the Government's senior economic adviser, steered Government money or favors to businesses in which he or his relatives held an interest. It also asks whether First Deputy Prime Minister Vadim Gustov, the former Governor of the Leningrad region, has funneled favors to businesses that financed his gubernatorial campaign.
Elsewhere, Mr. Yavlinsky's letter raises questions about the Agriculture Minister's conduct when he held the same post in the last days of the Soviet Union, and later as an official of a major bank. And it asks what favors several officials granted to businesses seeking exemptions from Government rules, and what benefits those exemptions brought about.
Mr. Maslyukov's office alone has received more than 300 requests for special treatment from businesses and other groups, he said.
A spokesman for Mr. Maslyukov, perhaps the central target of Mr. Yavlinsky's charges, called them baseless and shallow, and said they were an attempt to split the Government so free-market advocates could retake power.
Tonight Mr. Primakov responded dismissively to the complaints, calling the charges "general phrases" and adding that Mr. Yavlinsky's blanket allegation of Government rot suggested that the Yabloko faction was infected with corruption as well.
Mr. Primakov also joked about Mr. Yavlinsky's decision last month to turn down his offer of a job in the new Government, saying Mr. Yavlinsky must have rejected it "because he did not have enough money to pay for the post."
Ordinary Russians may fail to see the humor. The network television program "Itogi," a blend of America's "60 Minutes" and "Meet the Press" with a dash of Larry King tossed in, focused on Mr. Yavlinsky's charges on Sunday, before the Yabloko letter was released.
Asked to register their opinion on whether Mr. Primakov's Government was indeed corrupt, 16,500 people responded within a few hours. More than 92 percent of them answered "yes."
That is not entirely unexpected. Corruption was a fact under Soviet rule, both among regular citizens striving to eke out a living and high officeholders. It is probably safe to say a majority of Russians and many foreigners have been shaken down by a local policeman or city official, and it is accepted fact that the shift to capitalism made many Government officials rich overnight.
On the other hand, Mr. Primakov's gruff, fatherly manner and his lifetime career in foreign affairs rather than politics ran counter to that image. He has become not just the most popular figure in the Russian Government -- not exactly a high honor these days -- but also one of the few seen as having clean hands.
In that respect, Mr. Yavlinsky has suggested, the Government's defensive response has not been encouraging. A senior official in President Boris N. Yeltsin's administration has said there is no known evidence to support the charges, and the state prosecutor general has threatened to sue Mr. Yavlinsky for libel if he cannot prove them.
Mr. Primakov has gone no further than to suggest that Mr. Yavlinsky take his evidence to prosecutors.
Just why Russians might get exercised about bribery and theft now, when expectations of politicians' performance already are dragging bottom, is not completely clear. Communists were unable to summon a healthy showing for a protest last month against Mr. Yeltsin, the man blamed for most of Russia's troubles. Nor has the public generated much enthusiasm for any of the candidates who want to succeed him.
Mr. Yavlinsky is one of them, and there was speculation this week that he was campaigning against corruption to set himself apart from the pack. That he is campaigning seems beyond doubt: he began railing against bribery and theft in vague terms a week ago on television, and has gradually gotten more specific and more ominous in subsequent interviews in The Daily Telegraph of London and on Russian radio.
His news conference today, in which he also blasted Mr. Primakov's economic program as aimless, capped a week in which he has claimed a prime spot on national television and on the front pages of most major newspapers.
Mr. Yavlinsky has said he still supports Mr. Primakov, who draws support from both Communists and liberal reformers, as the best choice to unite Russia in a time of turmoil.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grigory A. Yavlinsky, leader of the Yabloko faction, in Moscow. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RANKINGS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (61%); GOVERNORS (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: YAVLINSKY, GRIGORY; PRIMAKOV, YEVEGNY (PRIME MIN); WINES, MICHAEL GRIGORY A YAVLINSKY (96%); YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (91%); YURI D MASLYUKOV (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



81 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Negative Rate For Savings In September

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
United States manufacturing was weaker last month than at any time in more than two and a half years, and consumers saw their incomes weaken in September as the savings rate turned negative for the first time in 40 years.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's factory index fell to 48.3 in October from 49.4 in September -- the lowest reading since 47.3 in March 1996. The index has hovered just below 50 since June, a sign of a decline in manufacturing and slower economic growth over all. 
 Personal income growth slowed in September, rising two-tenths of a percent -- half the previous month's gain -- as spending rose, Commerce Department figures showed. September's savings rate fell to minus two-tenths of a percent. That is the first time the statistics have showed people spent more than they earned since the Government began tracking savings monthly in 1959. The only times the savings rate was negative for a year was during the Great Depression.
Today's reports suggest falling exports and weaker consumer confidence were slowing the economy and suggested subdued growth in the months ahead. "Manufacturing is still in deep trouble," said Astrid Adolfson, an economist at MCM Moneywatch in New York. Consumers, meantime, "just aren't saving," and they cannot live beyond their means for long, said Kevin Flanagan, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York.
While manufacturing is slowing, builders are still reporting growth. Construction spending rose four-tenths of a percent in September after showing no change in August, Commerce Department figures showed. Construction, especially of single-family homes, had been a mainstay of the economy all year.
And the factory decline had not yet pushed the United States toward a recession, analysts said. A reading below 50 in the purchasers' index means the number of manufacturers who said business deteriorated was greater than the number of those saying it improved. Still, only when the index falls below 43.6 for a time does it generally signal a contraction in the broader economy, officials of the purchasers' association said.
The association's production index, a gauge of current output, fell to 52.6 in October from 53.4 during September. The new orders index, a gauge of current demand, fell to 45.7 in October from 50.1 during September. The export orders index, a gauge of Asian and other international demand, fell to 42 in October from 45.8 during September.
The association's price index showed little change, holding close to the lowest reading in half a decade. Its index of prices paid edged up slightly, to 35.8 in October from 34.4 during September, the lowest since July 1949.
Businesses are bracing for a slowdown. Facing a potential inventory buildup, the Ford Motor Company, the world's No. 2 auto maker, will shut down a Missouri car plant for three weeks and an Ohio van factory for one week beginning today, idling 4,000 workers. Citing declining exports and pressures from imports, the LTV Steel Corporation said on Thursday that it would idle 40 percent of its Cleveland steel operation for one week and furlough 320 workers.
The Commerce Department's income and spending report, meantime, suggested consumers' buying could slow. Spending rose five-tenths of a percent in September, following a revised four-tenths of a percent rise in August. The two-tenths of a percent increase in incomes was the weakest since a drop in April 1997 and followed a four-tenths of a percent increase in August.

GRAPHIC: Graph "Personal Income" tracks total personal income, in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates since April 1997.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FORD MOTOR CO (84%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); SAVINGS RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



82 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Tower Realty Says Crescent Cancels Deal

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Crescent Real Estate Equities Company, an investment trust controlled by the billionaire Richard E. Rainwater, and the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation have called off their $734 million joint purchase of the New York office developer Tower Realty Trust, Tower said yesterday.
Tower said it considered the move a "willful breach of the merger agreement" and filed a lawsuit against Crescent and Reckson in New York State Supreme Court for at least $75 million in damages. 
 Speculation had increased in recent months that the transaction would not be completed after Crescent, which is based in Fort Worth, backed out of least $2 billion in other acquisitions amid a decline in its stock price and dwindling financing available for real estate.
"Regrettably, Tower Realty Trust is the latest victim of Crescent's desperate attempts to unwind many of its financial obligations in light of current market conditions," Tower said in a statement.
Officials at Crescent, Reckson and Tower were not immediately available for comment. Tower did not say why Crescent and Reckson had called off the purchase.
Tower shares fell 11 percent yesterday, dropping $2.3125, to $17.9375. Crescent was unchanged at $25.0625, and Reckson rose 18.75 cents, to $22.875.
Officials at Crescent, where Mr. Rainwater is the chairman and founder, said in recent interviews that with real estate values coming down, they wanted to conserve their capital, which would allow them to buy properties at better prices than earlier this year.
Analysts have called the agreement between Crescent and Reckson legally "airtight," with neither able to walk away without stiff monetary penalties.
In recent interviews Reckson officials said they were still committed to buying Tower, and some analysts and investors expect the company to find a new partner.
"We'll probably see this deal come back in one form or another," said James Grissett, a Tower shareholder who heads Parthenon Group, a real estate securities money management firm .
In July, Crescent and Reckson teamed up in a 50-50 venture to buy Tower for $454 million, or $24 a share, cash and $280 million in assumed debt. All three companies are real estate investment trusts, or REIT's.
Reckson, which is based in Melville, N.Y., is Long Island's biggest commercial property landlord. Crescent, one of the nation's largest real estate companies, has stakes in everything from office buildings to psychiatric hospitals and residential developments.
The purchase was to give Crescent and Reckson an entree into the New York office market. Tower owns 24 office buildings with 4.6 million square feet of space in New York, Phoenix and Tucson, Ariz., and Orlando, Fla. About two-thirds of Tower's revenue comes from its New York office properties.
Since the agreement was announced, REIT stocks have tumbled on concern about a slowing economy and increased development. Crescent shares are down 35 percent this year, while Reckson is down 11 percent.
Other recent transactions Crescent has walked away from include the $1.7 billion purchase of the Las Vegas gambling company Station Casinos Inc. and the acquisition of $456 million of office buildings from the Prudential Insurance Company of America. Station has filed a lawsuit against Crescent seeking $400 million in damages.
Investors said Crescent's decision to walk away from these agreements might give the company a negative reputation among sellers, shutting it out of the market for desirable properties that become available.
"They have an evolving credibility problem," Mr. Grissett said. "Probably the only way they can get deals going forward is as a buyer or lender of last resort."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TOWER REALTY TRUST INC; CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO; RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO (93%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (91%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOWER REALTY TRUST INC; CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO; RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (93%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DAMAGES (77%); MERGERS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (56%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: RAINWATER, RICHARD E

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



83 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Albright Will Visit Jakarta This Month

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright will visit Indonesia later this month for the first time since the downfall of President Suharto, who was an American ally for several decades, the State Department said today.
Ms. Albright, who will be in Asia this month for the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, will also visit Thailand for meetings with Thai leaders, the State Department said. 
 Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia have been hard hit by the Asian financial crisis, which began with the collapse of the Thai currency in July 1997.
The crisis spread to Indonesia, where rioting and mass protests forced Mr. Suharto to resign on May 21. He was replaced by Vice President B. J. Habibie, but unrest and economic distress have continued.
In recent speeches, Ms. Albright has advocated that Asian governments follow policies of free trade, market economics, democratization and respect for human rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (94%); ASIA (94%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (70%); 

COMPANY: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (58%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (58%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; MALAYSIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (94%); ASIA (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RIOTS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (52%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: SUHARTO; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) MADELEINE K ALBRIGHT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



84 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Up 114.05 as Stocks Gain for Fourth Straight Session

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices continued to plow ahead yesterday as investors gained more confidence that the days and weeks of instability that were the norm from mid-July until late September are over.
"Everything is good right now, for now," one stock trader said. 
 "There is a continued belief the Fed will ease interest rates again," he added. "Foreign markets are stable. There is not a lot of new supply because there are not any deals. And mutual-fund inflows continue."
Once again, equities turned in a broad-based advance. The Dow Jones industrial average yesterday rose 114.05 points, or 1.33 percent, to 8,706.15.
It was the fourth consecutive session to end with a gain for the blue-chip gauge and the first time it has closed above 8,700 points since Aug. 18. For the year, the Dow is up slightly more than 10 percent.
Among broader market measures, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.93 points, or 1.18 percent, to 1,111.60. The Nasdaq composite index rose 29.52 points, or 1.67 percent, to 1,800.91. And the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks gained 8.66 points, or 2.3 percent, to 386.82.
For the second consecutive session, investors bought stocks despite a sharp rise in market interest rates.
Rates rose on all manner of Treasury securities yesterday. The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell by more than a point, and the yield rose to 5.25 percent, its highest level in six weeks.
Analysts said the recent selloff in the Government debt market was a sign that investors were increasingly confident that conditions no longer warranted the safety of Treasury notes and bonds.
"By and large, the Treasury bond market got way ahead of itself in terms of being a flight-to-quality haven," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management. "Now, money is redistributing itself among all financial markets. If people start getting nervous again, it may reverse."
Mr. Fine said that developments over the last week had slightly altered what had been a near-unanimous view in the credit markets that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates again later this month.
In the stock market, however, that view is still widely if not universally held. Moreover, there is little doubt that the Fed's decision to cut rates in late September and again last month has been vitally significant to the stock market's rally.
"The key thing is that we now have financial leadership worldwide, led by the Fed," said Jack Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest Inc. in Boston.
In a weekly letter sent to clients yesterday, analysts at International Strategy and Investment noted that concerns about the world financial crisis prompted 17 central banks, including the Fed, to cut interest rates last month. Six countries that lowered rates are European, and those cuts have helped reinvigorate stock markets on the Continent.
Most European markets posted strong gains yesterday, with indexes in Britain, France and Germany all rising by more than 1 percent.
Michael Clark, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston, said that American equities had benefited from what has been happening in Europe.
The Western European markets, he said, "are picking up steam as we move toward the end of the year and the birth of the European monetary union. That has given support to all industrialized country markets."
Worries that a global economic downturn would hurt companies that rely on overseas sales for a big part of their profits helped to lower share prices of many multinational companies through the last six weeks of the summer. Those concerns have abated somewhat, and the stocks are beginning to rebound.
Yesterday Coca-Cola, which relies on foreign sales for more than 75 percent of its profits, was the Dow's best-performing issue. Coke rose 3 7/16 a share, to 71. Boeing, another Dow stock, gained 3 3/4, to 41 5/16.
A third Dow component, Citigroup, fell 7/8 a share, to 46 1/8, after James Dimon, co-chief of its investment banking unit and the presumed heir apparent to Sanford I. Weill, Citigroup's co-chairman, abruptly announced his resignation.
Takeover stocks were big gainers yesterday.
Sofamor Danek Group, a surgical equipment maker, rose 8 1/2 a share, to 110 1/8, after it agreed to be acquired by Medtronic Inc., one of the world's biggest manufacturers of pacemakers, in a stock deal valued at $3.6 billion, or $115 a share. Medtronic shares rose 1 9/16 , to 66 9/16.
Boole & Babbage Inc. gained 3 1/2, to 30 1/8, after BMC Software Inc., a leading maker of software to manage programs on computer networks, agreed to buy the company for about $900 million in stock, or $32.44 a share, based on Friday's closing prices. BMC shares fell 2, to 46 1/16.
Among other Nasdaq stocks, Intel rose 2 5/8 a share, to 91 13/16 . And Cisco Systems, which is expected to report its third-quarter results tomorrow, gained 1 11/16, to 64 11/16.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since October 1997 . (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



85 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Good Times Mean Hard Sell for the Military

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WALDORF, Md., Oct. 29

 BODY:
Christopher Thompson was a prime target for the two older men roaming the St. Charles Towne Center mall today dressed in black uniforms. He was young. He looked fit. He was in the mall in the middle of the morning.
"You play sports?" Mr. Thompson was asked by way of introduction. More importantly, Keith L. Dixon wondered, had Mr. Thompson ever considered enlisting in the Navy? 
 Petty Officer Dixon and his fellow recruiter got little more than a shrug from Mr. Thompson, 19, a response all too familiar these days.
Recruiting young men and women into the nation's all-volunteer military has never been easy, but the military now faces a crisis in recruiting that has been building for some time and, many commanders fear, could very well get worse.
The Pentagon has announced that the Army and the Navy have each failed to reach their goals in signing up new recruits for the fiscal year that just ended. It was the first time since the draft ended in 1973 that the Navy had fallen short, and it did so disastrously, enlisting 12 percent fewer recruits than its goal of 55,300.
The Pentagon attributes its difficulties to many things. The economy is thriving. The unemployment rate is at its lowest since the days of the draft. Young people are more likely than ever to go straight to college after graduating from high school -- nearly 70 percent now, compared with less than half just a decade ago.
But many officials believe the armed services face a deeper problem and one more difficult to overcome. The military, simply put, no longer looms very large in young people's lives and families.
"More people are into just having fun," said Mr. Thompson, who recently moved to Maryland from Charlotte, N.C.
The sharp drawdown of personnel that followed the end of the cold war -- and the collapse of the nation's only overarching enemy -- has left the military as small as it has been since right after World War II. With 1.4 million soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines on active duty, the military is 40 percent the size it was at the peak of the Vietnam War in 1968.
That has meant a steady decline in the number of veterans in the population and in the number of those the recruiters call "influencers," the relatives, friends, teachers or others with military service who often inspire young people to sign up.
Mr. Thompson's generation -- the teen-agers and 20-somethings born after 1973 -- is the first whose fathers never had to face conscription.
"I can remember, when I was a little kid growing up, all I heard about was the military service of my parents," said Adm. Barbara E. McGann, the Navy's two-star commander in charge of recruiting. "Both my parents served. And you do grow up hearing these stories and being curious about what military service would be all about.
"I mean that's gone forever," Admiral McGann added.
The recruiting difficulties have led to shortages of enlisted personnel in the field, raising concerns about the "readiness" of the armed forces to fight -- and win -- a war.
Since Navy recruits almost always go straight to sea after basic training, the Navy's shortfall has contributed disproportionately to shortages of enlisted sailors in the fleet. Navy ships, on average, now set sail with only 90 percent of a full crew.
The Army missed its goal to recruit 72,600 soldiers by 1 percent, but it fell far shorter in enlisting recruits for harder-to-fill specialities.
The Air Force and Marines, both smaller forces with more specialized appeals, met their goals for the last fiscal year, though, in the Air Force's case, only after speeding up the start dates of those who signed up but decided to wait to enter the service.
The Pentagon is scrambling to address the shortfalls. The $1.1 billion that Congress approved for military readiness two weeks ago included $113 million to aid recruiting, including an increase in enlistment bonuses for areas hit hardest by recruiting woes.
The cost of recruiting has risen. Without the infusion of new money, it now costs, on average, $7,187 per recruit, including advertising, enlistment bonuses and money for college. At the end of the cold war in 1989, each recruit cost $5,460, in dollars adjusted for inflation.
The Navy and the Army have hired hundreds of new recruiters, and they have flooded television with ads they hope will reach youths.
In mid-October, the Army began broadcasting new commercials. The jolting advertisements mix staccato Nike-like images and pulsating music. "Are you ready to make real noise?" one of them asks.
"It's still 'Be all that you can be,' but we took the experience the Army can offer and packaged it in a more contemporary fashion," said Lieut. Col. James P. Sullivan, the Army's chief of marketing and advertising.
In a few weeks, the Navy will broadcast its first "infomercial" on cable, touting the service in a medium more often used to sell beauty products and financial investments.
"This generation watches cable late into the evening," Admiral McGann said.
The Admiral and other Pentagon officials express optimism that a redoubled effort will fix any serious recruiting problems before they endanger the services.
But others argue that recruiting will thrive only when more chronic problems are addressed. In a memorandum sent to every Army general on Oct. 7, the Army Chief of Staff, Gen. Dennis J. Reimer, warned that the perceived gap between civilian and military pay and benefits and the high pace of Army operations would continue to hurt recruiting until the situation was addressed.
The memorandum cited the lament of an Army recruiting sergeant in Ohio, who summarized the problem like this: "We are asking today's youth to leave home, deploy at a moment's notice and give his life for his country for the same pay as a fry cook."
All of which makes recruiters like Petty Officer Dixon more important than ever. He works out of a small office along Highway 301 in Waldorf, about 25 miles southeast of Washington. The office and another in Lexington Park handle recruiting in most of rural southern Maryland.
An 18-year veteran, Petty Officer Dixon has spent the last two and a half years trying to sell prospective recruits on the Navy.
He scours the high schools and recreation centers, but also improvises. He once left his business card in each sneaker in the mall's shoe store and, surprising even himself, received a call from a prospect, who a week later was on his way to a Navy boot camp.
In the last two years, he has been the second best recruiter in a region that stretches from northern Virginia to New Jersey, but it was always a struggle, he said.
"There's a real lack of interest," he said, cheerful nonetheless, as he cruised the mall, which, he explained, is crawling with prospects.
In a way, the Navy is a victim of its own success.
Like the other services, the Navy has increased the quality of its recruits by requiring a high school diploma and above-average scores on aptitude tests. The Navy also turns down anyone with physical or mental defects, or a history of drug use. Those standards, the Navy estimates, eliminate two-thirds of the pool; more often than not those are the ones who volunteer.
"Most of the people who walk into the office have something wrong with them," said Petty Officer Benny J. Granillo, a 10-year veteran who works mostly from Lexington Park.
That is why recruiters rely more on contacts they cultivate. At the mall, for example, Petty Officers Dixon and Granillo each went to check up on prospects, like Patricia Overstreet, 19, who signed up to be a medical corpsman but wanted to wait until after Christmas to start.
Since the mall has a ban on soliciting, recruiters approach prospects like Mr. Thompson indirectly. In this case, they chatted a bit about basketball and high school, learning that Mr. Thompson was waiting for his girlfriend to get off from her job at a store. Petty Officer Dixon invited him to join a basketball game on Saturday. "No strings attached," he said, handing him a card.
After leaving Mr. Thompson, Petty Officer Dixon asked, "Do you know what the problem with that guy is?"
He and Petty Officer Granillo answered in tandem, "The girlfriend."
"He might be interested, but the girlfriend won't want him to leave," Petty Officer Dixon explained. Then he made a note to himself to drop by the store every now and then and see how the relationship was going.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph A. Willis Jr., a Navy recruiter, with William Waldron, 18, of Fort Washington, Md. The Navy missed its recruiting goal by 12 percent. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMIES; NAVIES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR ARMIES (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COLD WAR (75%); WORLD WAR II (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FAMILY (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



86 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Tours West Coast to Whip Voters Into a Poll-Going Frenzy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Nov. 2

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore ended his long and labored campaign season today with a long and laboring day on the West Coast, joining major Democratic candidates for a rally in Sacramento, Calif., and along a four-stop, 130-mile bus tour through western Washington.
In the final hours before the elections, Mr. Gore delivered a fiery speech at every event, each generally focused on urging Democrats to vote on Tuesday. As he raised his voice to an assemblage of 800 noisy, card-waving partisans in Sacramento to start the day: "The enthusiasm level in this room is very high. You have to translate that into a very high turnout tomorrow. I know you are determined to do that." 
 For Democrats across the country, the stakes are unusually high, measured against predicted losses for the party in the House, the Senate and Governors' mansions, in part because of the eleventh-hour Republican strategy to make President Clinton's involvement in a sex scandal a major campaign issue.
Mr. Gore and the candidates who accompanied him today countered by stressing issues that Democrats have made the hallmarks of their fall campaigning -- education, health care, economic progress and environmental protections -- while taking steady swipes at Speaker Newt Gingrich and the right wing of the Republican Party.
After his remarks at a park in Olympia, the Washington state capital, Mr. Gore took the additional step of calling aside Jay Inslee, a former House Democrat who is trying to regain a seat this year, to acknowledge his efforts as the first Democrat anywhere to air a television commercial criticizing Republicans who made the sex scandal a campaign issue.
Mr. Gore told reporters that Mr. Inslee was the first "to sound the trumpet and say, 'Hey, wait a minute, this election ought to be about the future of the American people and not about investigating President Clinton.' He's taken that message to the people, and the people have responded by saying, 'That is right.' "
In his speech, Mr. Gore reprised a favorite laugh-line when he told the crowd of several thousand: "The Republican party in 1998 is in such disarray that the right hand doesn't know what the far right hand is doing."
At the University of Washington at Tacoma, Mr. Gore seemed to contradict the disarray joke by saying Republicans were "united in their hatred for President Clinton and their fondness for personal attacks and negative advertisements."
But Mr. Gore repeated the joke, anyway.
For Mr. Gore, as well, the stakes in the elections are elevated, in that all his recent campaign appearances -- more than 100 events in 26 states since late August -- have also been designed to help solidify his political base for a Presidential run in 2000.
But aside from a smattering of "Gore 2000" signs along the way today and a reference to him by Art Torres, the state Democratic Party chairman, as "the next President of the United States," most references to the future were limited to the next 24 hours.
Aides to Mr. Gore said that part of the political calculation for ending the campaign with a two-day trip that began on Sunday in New York and Wisconsin was to provide a final boost for four candidates caught in Senate races that remained too close to call: Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn, Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, Senator Barbara Boxer of California and Senator Patty Murray of Washington. Ms. Murray accompanied the Vice President on each stop today.
The Republicans hold a majority of 55 seats in the Senate and hope to add several more. But the Vice President had generous words for almost any Democrat running, including the entire statewide Democratic slate in California and most of the Democratic House candidates in Washington State, including the two challengers who have the best chance of winning: Mr. Inslee, who is in an even race with Representative Rick White, and Brian Baird, who is seeking to succeed Representative Linda Smith, the Republican who is challenging Senator Murray.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Gore at a Seattle rally with Representative Jim McDermott, left, and Jay Inslee, a Democratic candidate for the House. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SCANDALS (67%); SEX SCANDALS (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JAY INSLEE (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JIM MCDERMOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



87 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2324 words

HEADLINE: Boston Leading a Renewal of Old Northern Cities

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Boston, of course, would never do anything so uncouth as to boom.
But consider: Big cranes are in such demand here that builders have been looking for them as far west as the Mississippi. Architects are in short supply. Downtown commercial real estate has the lowest vacancy rate of any city center in the country, local monitors say, and the highest average rents, topping even San Francisco's and Manhattan's. Hotel rooms are often so impossible to get that reservation clerks might as well be Cabots or Lodges, for all the airs they put on. 
 Consider, too, that for the first time in more than five years new office towers are going up in downtown Boston, with one planned to rise higher than the landmark Prudential Center. Warnings of the dreaded "Manhattanization" of downtown can again be heard.
And this: Boston, its face already changing strikingly as the $11 billion construction project known as the Big Dig sinks the city's unsightly main highway underground, is embarking on a project so monumental that it has been compared to the landfill creation of the graceful Back Bay section a century ago. The project is the development of a 1,000-acre seaport district in South Boston, the last great chunk of convenient empty land on the water. (Water that was once the filthiest urban harbor in the country and is now, thanks to a nearly complete $4 billion cleanup, possibly the cleanest.)
The city, said the Boston Redevelopment Authority director, Thomas N. O'Brien, using the local vernacular, "is wicked hot."
For some, it is too hot. In legendary working-class neighborhoods like the Italian North End and traditionally Irish South Boston, the costs of buying and renting apartments have nearly doubled in the last two years, as the white collar has invaded and some blue collars have been squeezed out. And advocates for the poorest Bostonians worry about still-greater crowding and displacement.
But overall, Boston's resurgence is seen by many urban experts as spearheading a hopeful trend among aging northern cities that have experienced decades of decay. Planners talk about an "urban surge" or "comeback cities," spurred by factors as varied as plummeting crime rates, a strong national economy, a return of empty-nesters to walkable lives and the disdain that many young, educated professionals feel for the suburbs they grew up in.
They qualify carefully. The greatest population and employment growth is still occurring in the suburbs and "exurbs," farther out, and many urban cores continue to crumble, losing people and jobs. Many parents still spurn urban school systems. And of course it is the sunny cities like Atlanta, Phoenix and Las Vegas that are booming loudest.
But from Chicago to Cleveland to Pittsburgh to Baltimore, experts in urban affairs also note mounting signs of a willingness -- even eagerness -- to live and work and play in once-shunned downtowns and centers, and of both a public and private willingness to invest there.
"I think the traditional downtowns or older cities are now being kind of re-imagined by people," said Alex Krieger, chairman of the department of urban planning and design at Harvard University. "Instead of places where you get blue-collar jobs, which is the midcentury view of the city, they're being re-assimilated in the consciousness of Americans as places of culture, leisure, entertainment, bar-hopping and service-sector jobs."
"This is one of the most interesting changes in turn-of-the-century American society," he said. "There's this amazing shift from the city as a place where you live because you can't afford to live anywhere else to a place where you go to have fun."
And among resurging Eastern and Midwestern cities, some urban-affairs experts say, Boston seems to be coming back the best, helped by huge public projects but also by being the right place at the right time in the strong economy.
 
After a Hard Fall, A Welcome Bounce
In a way, such a high-stepping comeback seems only fair. Boston, the 20th most-populous city in the United States, with nearly 600,000 people, suffered disproportionately in the last recession. In the 1980's, New England hit the worst economic times any region had since the Depression. Speculative overbuilding in and around Boston in the mid-80's resulted, by the end of the decade, in despair.
It took until last year to regain all the recession jobs lost and sop up the extra office space. But now, history seems to be smiling again on an intellectual and cultural peacock of a town that calls itself the Hub and the Athens of America. In a traditional toast, Boston is also called the Home of the Bean and the Cod; but now, at just the right time, it is more of a home to the bit and the doc -- a capital of financial services, medicine and high technology, all fields that have particularly thrived in this thriving economy.
That economic diversity should help cushion Boston from financial shocks like this summer's stock market "correction," said Mayor Thomas M. Menino, the first Italian-American in to hold that office in Boston and a nuts-and-bolts kind of guy whose business-friendly approach has helped fuel the city's growth.
"Boston depends on four different economies -- academia, health care, mutual funds and tourism," he said, speaking in his cavernous City Hall office. "Most cities depend on one segment of the economy."
Lately, economic uncertainty has led to tighter credit for commercial real estate deals here, and economists predict a slowing of the city's growth. They also warn of an impending labor shortage, particularly of skilled workers. At the same time, they point to the striking breadth of Boston's non-boom.
In the Italian North End, for example, Nancy Caruso, a pillar of the dense, sauce-scented neighborhood who has lived there for 50 years, said she got cards and letters almost every day asking whether she would consider selling her small building. Buildings bought by speculators in the 1980's for $200,000 would now bring perhaps $600,000, she said.
"Within the last two years," she said, "it's started to boom again, and last year it was very booming, and this year, it's just gone crazy," to the point that Italian families who had moved to the suburbs and want to come back find they cannot afford it.
The North End situation, though nice for owners, also illustrates the great downside of the city's current vigor. Boston housing has long been some of the most expensive in the nation, but the soaring prices lately have been squeezing poorer residents, particularly new immigrants, ever harder.
"Every neighborhood in Boston has very strong pressures in its residential market," said Mr. O'Brien, of the Boston Redevelopment Authority.
Real estate brokers say that in South Boston, the heavily Irish enclave that gained ill-fame for its opposition to school busing in the 1970's, rents have shot up perhaps 70 percent in the last 18 months; and in the traditional triple-deckers that have usually housed a family on each floor, the population is changing.
"What's happening is that the families that have lived here for so long are really becoming displaced," said Mike Foley, regional vice president for Jack Conway and Company Realtors. Apartments that once housed single families are being shared by individuals bringing in multiple incomes. "We're renting to three or four individuals who can pay $500 a piece," Mr. Foley said. "Two years ago, you might have been getting $800 for those same apartments. The marketplace has increased so drastically that South Boston families can't afford these rents."
Among Boston's poorest, the economic energy has helped some. Marc Germain, a social worker in the Dorchester section, said, "It's easier to get a lot of young people -- who are traditionally unable to get into the labor market -- jobs."
But it has also hurt, said Charlotte Kahn, director of the Boston Foundation's Persistent Poverty Project. With the city's high cost of living, she said, "for people on fixed incomes or minimum wage, it has always been tough, and in this kind of boom environment, it becomes that much tougher. And when you factor in welfare reform, which is due to start in December, nobody knows what that's really going to mean for people."
"We're already seeing an increase in homelessness," she said.
Boston's growth also creates problems for those in the path of development -- like George Hagerty, an artist in the historic Fenway Studios building near the chi-chi boutiques of Newbury Street. He protests that his light will be ruined if plans go forward for a neighboring skyscraper over the Massachusetts Turnpike, and that in times like these, sometimes "people get squished."
"We could either succeed or fail very badly at changing the face of Boston," he warned.
 
Economic Changes, Yes, but Social, Too
The burst in Boston's civic energy, some city leaders say, seems to come not only from economic forces but from social changes as well, changes in a city so known for paralyzing political fights that the former Governor of Massachusetts William Weld recently said Boston had boomed "in spite of itself."
For well over three decades, for example, an elite, rather secretive group called the Vault, founded in 1959 mainly by Yankee bankers and businessmen to help create a "New Boston" in the dismal post-war years, was seen as a leading force in shaping the city. That group imploded about two years ago and is officially defunct.
Now, said Ira Jackson, an executive vice president at Bankboston, a broader, more open, more inclusive group of business, labor, neighborhood and political leaders has formed a loose coalition, with more of a friendly, collaborative, "getting-it-done" approach to everything from crime to education.
Take Boston's push to have the Democratic National Convention in 2000. Boston has never been host of the convention, Mr. Jackson noted, in part because it could not get its act together to compete for it. This time it is in the running. When Democratic scouts came around, they visited the city's tallest building, the blue-mirrored John Hancock tower, and took the popular new Duck Tours in amphibious vehicles on the Charles River and around town.
"The notion you could get business guys to sit down with labor and community leaders and the Republican governor and the Democratic Speaker and everybody at a big lovefest at the top of the Hancock or at 7 o'clock in the morning at Filene's Basement!" Mr. Jackson exclaimed. "Or taking a Duck Tour with delegates and driving the thing onto the floor of the Fleet Center! All those things happened. It couldn't have happened in Boston ever before."
The new model for city development, said Thomas Piper, an urban-planning research scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is the way Boston is approaching the gargantuan development of the new seaport district, which is expected to take decades to complete.
The area, which already includes the World Trade Center exhibition complex, the just-opened $220-million Federal courthouse and the just-opened Seaport Hotel, was the subject of a special town-meeting type of conference in May, and the city's plan for it is now absorbing widespread comment from neighborhood defenders and the Boston Society of Architects, among others. Interested residents can even check out a three-dimensional seaport plan on the Internet.
"It's a challenge to the imagination," Mr. Piper said, comparing the project's scale to the development of Battery Park City in Manhattan. The seaport can also be seen, Mr. Piper said, as the shape of the urban future: a project made possible by an environmental cleanup and offering enticing recreational spots, serving pedestrians well and reflecting the ideas and desires of the public.
Lively debate is also already under way about what to do with the empty 27-acre swath that will be left over the sunken highway, the Central Artery.
 
Building From Ground, And Beneath, Up
Boston has recovered and then some, but not all by itself, all acknowledge. It has been blessed by $17 billion in infrastructure investments, including a $1 billion renovation of Logan International Airport. Some of the investment was brought home by long-serving and powerful Congressmen and some was provided by a wealthy state that makes its capital here. The seaport district will have a subway line and turnpike exits once the Big Dig is completed, for example, and the North End is red-hot in part because it will no longer be cut off from the rest of the city by the Central Artery.
"Boston is exceptional" in its comeback, said Alan Altshuler, a professor of urban planning at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and a skeptic about the talk of a general urban resurgence. "There's been massive infrastructure investment focused here."
Other skeptics would agree, pointing out that the concentration of poverty in many cities has continued to rise. They also note that, while there are many projections of a coming urban population influx, not even fashionable centers like Denver and Portland, Ore., have seen much population growth in the 1990's compared with that in the suburbs. That cities are doing better is undeniable, they say, but at best that means a new stability, not a full-fledged renaissance.
A recent survey of cities by the Brookings Institution and the Fanny Mae Foundation projected, for example, that the downtown population of Cleveland would grow by 228 percent by the year 2010, while Denver's would grow by 165 percent and Columbus, Ohio's, by 53 percent.
Harvard's Professor Krieger, like other urban enthusiasts, sees the half-full glass:
"The point is that, thought about most broadly, there is substantial reinvestment in the cores of our cities," he said, "and that is quite different from a generation or two ago in America, or even a decade ago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists and residents alike can now see Boston by land and by water on the amphibious vehicles operated by Duck Tours, a new city attraction. The $450 million Millennium Place project at the edge of Boston's Chinatown will include a hotel, residential buildings and a retail complex. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Map/Chart: "IN THE WORKS: More Buildings In Boston"
For the first time in more than five years, new office towers and hotels are being built in downtown Boston.
 
Millennium Place
Hotel, residential, retail
COST: $450 million
SIZE: 1.4 million sq. ft.
OPEN: 2000
 
Prudential Center Office Tower
Commercial offices
COST: $250 million
SIZE: 1 million sq. ft.
OPEN: 2003
 
South Station Office Tower
Hotel, retail, commercial
COST: $600 million
SIZE: 2.1 million sq. ft.
OPEN: 2002
 
Federal Courthouse
COST: $185 million
SIZE: 400,000 sq. ft.
OPEN: September 1998
 
Hotel (Parcel F)
COST: $89 million
SIZE: 400 rooms
OPEN: 2002
 
East Office Tower
COST: $130 million
SIZE: 504,000 sq. ft.
OPEN: 2000
 
Seaport Hotel
COST: $40 million
SIZE: 427 rooms
OPEN: August 1998
 
Boston Harbor
Cleaner water, as a $4.6 billion cleanup nears completion.
 
Central Artery Land
27 acres of open space from moving the Central Artery underground.
 
(Source: Boston Redevelopment Authority)(pg. A20)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRENDS (89%); SUBURBS (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); LANDFILLS (66%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EMPTY NESTERS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



88 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Union Official Expects No Games Before January

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
On the day before the season was supposed to start, Billy Hunter, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, said yesterday that no agreement was imminent in the labor impasse and that he thought the season would not begin until next year.
Hunter's remarks dispelled any notion that the team owners and the players were headed toward a settlement any time soon, despite long, intensive bargaining sessions last week. 
 "My gut tells me that in January we could be playing," he said in a conference call with reporters. "I would anticipate the season would start around the first part of January."
Russ Granik, deputy commissioner of the National Basketball Association, said he agreed with Hunter that an agreement was not close.
Hunter's declaration came after representatives of the owners and players met for about two and a half hours at a Manhattan law firm. Union officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the divide was over the mechanics of an escrow system proposed by the owners.
The plan would have been put into effect after two or three years of employing a luxury-tax system to curb salaries. In those escrow plan years, the sides would determine at the end of each season how much revenue was devoted to player salaries. If a target number was exceeded, part of the escrow money would be returned and distributed to all 29 teams. It was unclear how far apart the sides were.
Hunter said that he was trying to stop recent news media speculation that an agreement would be reached as early as this week. "I don't know where that information came from, but I can indicate that I don't see any possibility at all of reaching an agreement this week, and I can't say how soon it will be," he said.
Before the disagreement on how the escrow system should be put in place, the biggest stumbling block was what revenue percentages should be after the system had been in place for a few years. The players are asking for 60 percent; the owners are offering 50.
No talks are scheduled until tomorrow, when N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern, Granik and the league lawyers will meet with Hunter, the union president Patrick Ewing and their legal team. Hunter said an earlier plan to have full negotiating teams present was scrapped, but he did entertain the possibility of such a bargaining session by the end of the week if the two sides could hash out their differences.
Hunter said that yesterday was used to iron out some of the mechanics for calculating salary caps and other issues. "There was little or no progress," he said.
"We obviously think we're much further apart than we were a week ago on economic issues," Hunter said. "My optimism last Tuesday was over the fact that we were meeting, and I felt the owners and the league were somewhat anxious. But for whatever reason, they've become a little more entrenched and we may have taken a step back today."
In a statement, Granik said last night: "Nothing has changed from last week. The union agreed that the N.B.A. had the right to reopen the contract if player compensation reached 52 percent. The percentage we paid to players last year soared to 57 percent and the players' best offer so far is that they be paid 60 percent. We agree with Mr. Hunter that we are not close."
Under a normal schedule, players would have gone through their last practices yesterday before openers around the country tonight.
The 194 games in November have been canceled. If there is no settlement this week, then the first week of December will be canceled. Granik had said that every week an agreement was not signed basically meant another week would be canceled.
Meanwhile, fans of professional basketball are split over who is more justified in the labor dispute, according to the latest nationwide New York Times/CBS News Poll. The players are supported by 36 percent of fans, while 29 percent side with the owners, according to the poll. Nine percent said neither side was more in the right, and 25 percent didn't have an opinion.
Male fans are evenly divided: 32 percent support the players and 34 percent endorse the owners' position. Female fans' sentiment was more inclined to be with the players: among the women interested in professional basketball, 41 percent sided with the players and 24 percent supported the owners.
The telephone poll was conducted Oct. 21-25 with 1,118 adults, 39 percent of whom said they were very or somewhat interested in professional basketball. The margin of sampling error for basketball fans in the poll is plus or minus 5 percentage points.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The marquee outside Madison Square Garden advertises the Knicks, but there will be no games soon. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; HUNTER, BILLY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



89 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Taped Gates Testimony Shown at Microsoft Trial
In two hours of videotaped questioning shown at the Microsoft antitrust trial, William H. Gates, the chairman of the company, professed ignorance of several key charges in the Government's suit, including allegations that he was involved in plans to bully competitors like Apple Computer and Netscape Communications to step back from Internet software markets that Microsoft sought to dominate. 
 When presented with electronic mail messages he had written, he often said he did not recognize the messages or recall the discussions surrounding them, prompting, at times, even the presiding judge to chuckle and shake his head. Page A1.
 
Impasse at Federal Express A top executive at Federal Express warned that the company was on the verge of losing several large customers during the peak holiday season because of a threatened strike by its pilots. The disclosure came after the latest round of negotiations between the company and the Fedex Pilots Association broke down late Friday. C2.
 
Danone Buys U.S. Bottler
Groupe Danone announced that it was buying Aqua Penn Spring Water for $112 million, or $13 a share, which sent Aqua Penn's shares up 30 percent. The move gives Groupe Danone of Paris access to three spring-water sources in Florida, California and Pennsylvania in addition to the Utah and Quebec springs it now uses for its Dannon brand of bottled water, which is distributed nationwide. It also links Danone for the first time to big customers like McDonald's, where Aqua Penn sells bottled water in some areas, and doubles the company's production capacity in the United States. C4.
 
F.D.A. Approves Sangstat Drug
Sangstat Medical said the Food and Drug Administration had approved its immune-suppressant drug, Sangcya, for preventing organ rejection in transplant patients, and for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. Sangstat said it would introduce the drug within a month and would be priced 20 percent below an equivalent drug, Neoral, which is made by Novartis. C9.
 
New Signs of Economic Weakness
The latest evidence of slower economic growth showed that United States manufacturing was weaker last month than at any time in more than two and a half years and that consumer income weakened in September as the savings rate turned negative for the first time in 40 years. C2.
 
Tower Realty Sale Collapses
Crescent Real Estate Equities, an investment trust controlled by the billionaire Richard E. Rainwater, and Reckson Associates Realty have called off their $734 million joint purchase of the New York office developer Tower Realty Trust, Tower said. C4.
 
Philips to Close Factories
Royal Philips Electronics, the Dutch manufacturing giant, said it would close up to one-third of its plants by 2002 to create a leaner company and adapt to a difficult world economy. The announcement, while troubling for the Philips work force of 256,000, seemed to be welcomed by investors. Shares of Philips rose 9 percent in Amsterdam. On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Philips jumped $4.5625, to $59.8125. C4.
 
Update at London Exchange
The London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange, under pressure to make its trading system faster and cheaper, announced a sweeping reorganization intended to cut its operating costs in half by the end of next year. C4.
 
The National Association of Securities Dealers, parent of Nasdaq, completed its merger with the American Stock Exchange. C10.
 
New York City and state officials are close to a deal to provide Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange with a $200 million subsidy package to build a new headquarters. B1.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "TODAY" shows leading indicators since March.
 
Graph tracks price of Philips Electronics shares since Monday.
 
Graph tracks price of Aqua Penn shares since Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (93%); BN (PAR) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%); PHIA (BIT) (51%); PHIA (AMS) (51%); PHG (NYSE) (51%); SLG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (54%); NOVARTIS AG (52%); CRESCENT REAL ESTATE EQUITIES CO (51%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (51%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (51%); NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (78%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (86%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); APPROVALS (75%); FAST FOOD (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); JUDGES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); US FDA APPROVALS (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (68%); ARTHRITIS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (63%); PLANT CLOSINGS (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); CLOSINGS (60%); PSORIASIS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



90 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Hurricane Death Toll Likely to Exceed 7,000
Authorities in Nicaragua and Honduras said the combined death toll from Hurricane Mitch and its aftermath was likely to pass 7,000, as rescue workers throughout Central America struggled to reach scores of remote peasant settlements left battered and isolated. A1 

Kosovo Health Care Collapse
The climate of fear in Kosovo during the Yugoslav Government's offensive against ethnic Albanian rebels has caused the rural health system to collapse, aid workers and the few remaining health workers say, and hundreds of civilians may have died as a result. A1
 
A French military officer at NATO headquarters in Brussels has been arrested on suspicion of telling Serbia about targets that the alliance was planning to bomb if Serbian forces did not stop attacking civilians in Kosovo last month, French officials said. A8
 
Clinton Response on Iraq
President Clinton predicted that Iraq's decision to end all cooperation with United Nations weapons inspectors would "backfire" and said that the move had unified the international community in condemnation of President Saddam Hussein's Government. A6
 
Iraq allowed a small team of maintenance technicians to change film and make repairs on some surveillance cameras in the company of Iraqi chaperones two days after vowing to cut off all cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors. A6
 
Russian Corruption Charges
Grigory A. Yavlinsky, a respected reformer and legislator who was the first politician to tout Yevgeny M. Primakov for the post of Prime Minister last month, gave Mr. Primakov a letter seeking investigations of the conduct of his two highest-ranking aides and other officials. Mr. Primakov responded dismissively. A3
 
Leaders Stand by Accord
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, both insisted that the carefully sequenced security-for-land plan can still proceed nearly on schedule, although the new interim peace accord stopped in place the day it was formally to begin. A6
 
Malaysian Goes on Trial
The former Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, went on trial in a corruption case that has gripped the region and come to symbolize the political convulsions that can flow out of economic distress. A11
 
Keeping Ulster Peace on Track
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of the Irish Republic conferred with Catholic and Protestant leaders of the new Northern Ireland Assembly in an effort to restart the stalled Ulster peace effort, two days after the sectarian killing of a Roman Catholic man in Belfast. A5
 
World Briefing A14
 
NATIONAL A16-25
 
Elections Are Widely Seen As Referendum on Clinton
Americans are expected to trickle, if not stream, to the polls today in a midterm election that will inevitably be interpreted as a referendum on the fate of the President, whose tribulations distinguished the campaign season more than any raging national issue. Most strategists held firm with predictions of modest Republican gains in the House, where all 435 seats are up for grabs, a Republican gain of no more than a few seats in the Senate and no appreciable shift in the Republicans' domination of governor's offices. A1
 
Fewer than half of all eligible voters are expected to visit the polls; some political analysts say the number could plummet to about one-third. A1
 
National political parties have been steadily pumping money into critical state races, in part because whoever controls the statehouses and governors' mansions will have a hand in redrawing Congressional districts after the 2000 census. A24
 
Senator Carol Moseley-Braun of Illinois stuck close to her hometown, playing to her Democratic political base in an eleventh-hour effort to keep her job. Her opponent is State Senator Peter Fitzgerald. A23
 
Boston Leads Urban Comeback
A resurgence in Boston is seen by many urban experts as spearheading a hopeful trend among aging northern cities that have experienced decades of decay. For the first time in more than five years, for example, new office towers are going up in downtown Boston. A1
 
Military Faces Recruiting Crisis
The military faces a crisis in recruiting that has been building for some time and, many commanders fear, could very well get worse. The Pentagon said that the Army and the Navy had each failed to reach their goals in signing up recruits. A16
 
A Liberal City Cracks Down
The nation's most famously liberal city, Berkeley, Calif., is trying to fight drug dealing and disperse entrenched camps of the homeless in its shopping district. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
2 Markets Close to a Deal For a Joint Headquarters
New York City and state officials are said to be close to a deal to provide Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange with a $200 million subsidy package to build a new joint headquarters, probably in a skyscraper a block from Times Square. B1
 
Senate Race Winds Down
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Representative Charles E. Schumer ended one of the most competitive and expensive political races in the nation this year. B1
 
Changes in Macy's Parade
Macy's, under strong pressure from New York City, has revamped its procedures for its Thanksgiving Day Parade. Winds played havoc with the balloons last year, and a spectator was seriously hurt after an out-of-control Cat in the Hat sent part of a lamppost plunging to the street. B1
 
Celebrity Chef Arraigned
A former boxer who rose from the streets of Brooklyn to become one of New York City's most flamboyant celebrity chefs -- with his own restaurant and television show -- was charged with stealing $190,000 from a credit card company. B2
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-10
 
Health & Fitness F7-10
 
FASHION B13
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTS D1-6
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
Norbert Wollheim
A tenacious Auschwitz survivor who went on to sue the Germans for compensation for his work as a slave laborer, then devoted his life to building a spirited movement of Holocaust survivors, he was 85. B11
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Gates Professes Ignorance
William H. Gates, chairman of Microsoft, professed ignorance of key meetings and strategies that lie at the heart of charges in the Government's antitrust suit against his company -- including purported plans to bully competitors like Apple and Netscape into abandoning Internet markets -- in videotaped questioning shown at the trial. A1
 
Stock Prices Advance
Stock prices continued to plow ahead as investors gained more confidence that the days and weeks of instability that were the norm from mid-July until late September were over. The Dow rose 114.05 points, or 1.33 percent, to 8,706.15. The S.& P. 500 gained 12.93 points, or 1.18 percent, to 1,111.60. Nasdaq rose 29.52 points, or 1.67 percent, to 1,800.91. C1
 
Making Light Trucks Cleaner
Environmental regulators in California and Washington are preparing to require steep reductions in air pollution from cars and want to apply similar rules to sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans. C1
 
Federal Express Issues Alert
The top executive at Federal Express warned that the company was on the verge of losing several large customers during the peak holiday season because of a threatened strike by its pilots. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Iraq's audacious defiance; the vacant commission; Election Day choices.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather B10
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (57%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); HONDURAS (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (57%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RURAL HEALTH (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); RANKINGS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ARRESTS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); REFERENDUMS (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (67%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); BERTIE AHERN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



91 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Audacious Defiance

 BODY:
Emboldened by its past successes in curtailing United Nations arms inspections, Iraq has now virtually banned all monitoring efforts. Before Saddam Hussein will let this vital work resume, he unreasonably demands that the Security Council guarantee an early end to international economic sanctions against Iraq. Such a commitment would relieve Baghdad of its obligation to prove it has eliminated all illegal biological, chemical and nuclear weapons and missiles that can deliver them.
This contempt for Security Council resolutions has spurred even previously equivocal council members like Russia and France to condemn Baghdad's decision and demand that Iraq comply in full with all resolutions. This show of unity is important, and welcome. But experience suggests that resolutions alone will not be enough to make Iraq live up to its obligations. Washington, together with whatever partners it can mobilize, must once again be prepared to enforce the council's demands with military action. 
 Since August, Iraq has prohibited U.N. investigators from carrying out surprise inspections of new locations where they believed weapons ingredients or documentary evidence might be hidden. That seriously undermined the inspection program, but at least previously identified sites were still visited by inspectors and kept under surveillance by cameras and chemical detection devices. Now even those routine inspection visits have been barred.
For the moment, Iraq is not interfering with technicians who maintain video cameras and replace batteries at locations where these devices have been installed. But maintaining this equipment is much less important than the physical inspections by trained specialists.
Until early this year Washington consistently backed the U.N. inspection program with the threat to use force, the only language that seems to move Mr. Hussein. But White House resolve weakened last spring and Washington responded meekly when Iraq halted surprise inspections in August.
Whenever Mr. Hussein senses hesitation he moves to gain advantage, and Washington is now dealing with the predictable consequence of its desire to avoid another confrontation with Iraq. The threat of Iraqi chemical and biological weapons is too grave to treat exclusively as a diplomatic matter, as the White House now seems belatedly to recognize. If diplomacy backed by the threat of force does not budge Mr. Hussein, military action itself may be needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EDITORIALS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



92 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE ELECTORATE;
Bored, Dispirited, Disgusted, Most Won't Vote

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Ill., Nov. 1

 BODY:
Since casting a ballot for Harry S. Truman in 1948, Harold Hiles, a World War II veteran, has always deemed it an honor and a duty to vote.
But on this Election Day, he is staying home. 
 "Don't want any part of it," said Mr. Hiles, 76, over a piece of apple pie on Sunday morning, as church bells pealed in this small Midwestern city. "Clinton, Starr, the whole bunch of them. Who do you believe anymore? Who can you respect? People are just losing faith."
For all the handicapping about the races between Democrats and Republicans on Tuesday, there is little doubt what most Americans will effectively choose: none of the above.
It is a virtual certainty that fewer than half of all eligible voters will visit the polls on Tuesday; some political analysts say the number could plummet to about one-third.
While grousing about politicians is a time-honored American tradition, would-have-been-voters say this season's campaigners have wallowed in far more than the usual level of muck -- vicious name-calling, transparent pandering and, of course, the lascivious details about President Clinton's sexual behavior.
"It just seems like politics are spinning out of control," said Jerry Hanck, a 60-year-old liquor salesman who will be sitting out the election. "There are bad actors on both sides."
It was in this old river town 140 years ago that 10,000 people turned out at Washington Square for the first debate between Stephen Douglas and Abraham Lincoln, a discussion that focused on constitutional principles and the most fundamental of human rights issues, slavery.
It does not escape notice here that the last national election of the 20th century seems to be driven by sound bites, attack ads and sex talk that brings an embarrassed blush even to a crusty old Navy man like Mr. Hiles.
But gauging the sensibilities of voters is tricky, especially when it comes to Mr. Clinton's affair with a former White House intern.
Mr. Hiles, a retired glass factory worker and union member, would surely fall in the approval column in polls on the President's job rating. "He's been a wonderful President," Mr. Hiles said.
And yet Mr. Hiles said he would boycott the ballot box on Tuesday largely because he disapproves of Mr. Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, and the President's failure to tell the whole truth about the affair.
It was a sentiment that surfaced frequently among nonvoters, mostly among Democrats. These were not people who intended to bolt to the Republican side. They had simply become dispirited.
"Democrats just feel kind of embarrassed right now," said Connie Jolley, 29, a restaurant manager. Ms. Jolley, who described herself as "a majorly Democratic" voter in most years, plans to go to the polls on Tuesday, but only to vote on a local referendum.
She intends to skip the races for governor and Congress, saying that she could not bring herself to vote for the Republicans, but did not believe the Democrats had earned her vote.
Compared to voters, nonvoters are younger, less educated, have lower incomes and tend to support Democratic candidates for the House of Representatives, according to the latest New York Times/CBS poll.
The poll, taken Oct. 26 to Oct. 28, found that 32 percent of nonvoters are under age 30, compared with just 13 percent of voters. Nearly two-thirds of nonvoters have never attended college, whereas 43 percent of voters have not attended college. Forty percent of nonvoters have households incomes of less than $30,000 a year, compared to 24 percent of likely voters.
In races for the House of Representatives, 49 percent of nonvoters favored Democratic candidates and 27 percent favored Republicans. The likely voters, meanwhile, were evenly split between the two parties.
The extent of political apathy this year will not be fully measured until the votes are counted, but at least two studies suggest an increase.
Four years ago in a Times/CBS News poll, a third of voters said they were paying a lot of attention to campaigns in their state, and 20 percent said they were paying little or no attention. This year, the Times/ CBS News poll shows interest in the campaigns slightly down, with less than 3 in 10 voters saying they were paying a lot of attention, and about a quarter saying they were paying little or no attention.
And a report released on Friday by the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, a nonpartisan research institution in Washington, found that turnout was likely to be between 36 percent to 38 percent of eligible voters, down from the 38.8 percent who voted in 1994.
No one can yet accurately measure how much of the expected decline can be attributed to disgust with the Lewinsky scandal, or for that matter, the Starr investigation.
The conventional wisdom predicting a lower turnout in November is generally based on the relatively low turnout in this year's primary elections. But Thomas Mann, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution in Washington, cautioned that turnout was difficult to predict. Indeed, he said some political analysts were expecting something of a surge in voting by blacks, who have been among Mr. Clinton's most loyal defenders. He added that union members, whatever their feeling about the Lewinsky affair, were unlikely to sit out the election, given strong get-out-the vote efforts by labor leaders.
The 11th Congressional District here, which sweeps north and east across Illinois farmland to the industrial city of Joliet, has swung between Democrats and Republicans. It last changed hands in 1994, when Jerry Weller, a Republican, took office. Mr. Weller is widely expected to win re-election against his Democratic opponent, Gary Mueller.
"People feel like, 'What's the sense?' " said Mike Malles, a 33-year-old house painter, who skipped past the political news to the movie reviews in the Sunday newspaper.
"The noise is just too loud," said Mr. Malles, who usually votes. "There's so much hype. A lot of people just want to pull back."
Mudslinging and scandal are surely not the only things keeping voters from the polls. Many people say they simply do not find politics interesting enough to spend much time dwelling on the issues.
When Melissa Reynolds, a 19-year-old college student, asked, "What are we voting for?" she was not posing a rhetorical question.
She was unaware that Tuesday was Election Day. "I don't get into that stuff," said Miss Reynolds, who plans to be a grammar school teacher.
With the economy in relatively good shape, many Americans see no reason to demand sharp political change. Others simply see the actions of political leaders as increasingly irrelevant to their daily lives.
Dedra Phillips, who works as a quality analyst for a cookie company, said she was enjoying some prosperity. A nonvoter, she said politicians should leave her alone. And she plans to return the favor.
"Times are good for me because I make them that way," said Ms. Phillips, 28, who pushed a stroller that held her two young children. "It has nothing to do with politicians."
Diana Harden, a 33-year-old custodian, said she would stay away from the polls as a gesture of protest against politicians who she claimed operated on a different standard than ordinary Americans.
"They think they're better than the people who pay their salaries," said Ms. Harden, who does not normally vote.
Susan Harnisch, a 47-year-old teacher at a prison, said she would skip the voting booth because politicians had skipped the issues most relevant to people.
"They're wasting time on this investigation -- censure him, throw him out, let him go, whatever -- but let's get on with it," said Ms. Harnisch, who usually splits her ticket.
She blamed Republicans for dwelling on Kenneth W. Starr's investigation of Mr. Clinton, but said the President, by his example, "has made it much harder for the average person who wants to go out and do the right thing."
But more than anything else, she said, she was annoyed by politicians who focus on "hot-button" issues like gun control and abortion, while ignoring the complicated matters that come up in everyday life.
"Why don't they talk about things that hit home -- medical expenses, credit card debt, men who don't pay child support," said Ms. Harnisch. "I'm not voting because it just doesn't seem to get through to them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Ottawa, Ill., where the Lincoln-Douglas debate drew a crowd, many residents will not vote today. Harold Hiles, left, said he was turned off by the Lewinsky scandal. Dedra Philips, center, said times were good, but not because of politicians. Jerry Hanck, right, said politics was "out of control." (Photographs for The New York Times by Todd Buchanan)(pg. A23)
 
Graph: "TALLY: Voter Turnout"
After rising during the 1950's and 60's the percentage of the voting age population casting ballots in non-presidential election years dropped and hasn't recovered.
Graph shows percentage of the voting age population casting ballots in non-presidential election years, from 1950 through 1994. (Source: Congressional Research Service)(pg. A23)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; OTTAWA (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MIDWEST USA (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS POLITICS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); GLASS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSON, DIRK; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



93 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Power Line Makes Use Of a Miracle Of Physics

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

 BODY:
After 87 years of alternating exuberance and disappointment, and a decade after a famous conclave of physicists at which the key to success seemed to be within reach, the world's first superconducting power line is about to become a reality.
A superconducting line is one that will conduct huge electrical currents with far less resistance than that of a line made of metal wire, and that therefore conserves energy. 
 The first large-capacity superconducting line, to begin operation by mid-2000 in Detroit, will be only 400 feet long. But it will use only 250 pounds of a new kind of superconducting wire to carry as much current as the 18,000 pounds of copper wire the line will replace.
Experts say the line will demonstrate the practicability of large-scale superconducting power transmission and will be the first of many such lines. In announcing a contract providing for Federal support for the project, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson predicted two weeks ago that power lines like this one, exploiting the special properties of "high-temperature superconductors," could eventually save the nation $6 billion a year. Another benefit is that the electricity industry could sharply reduce the pollution created by generating plants.
Lengths of the same superconducting cable up to 50 yards long have already been successfully tested, said Dr. Paul M. Grant, an expert in superconductivity at the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif.
The new power line will be built by a consortium that includes the American Superconductor Company of Westborough, Mass., which will supply superconducting wire; Pirelli Cables and Systems of Milan, Italy, which will assemble the wire into a power line; the Lotepro Corporation of Valhalla, N.Y., which will supply refrigeration equipment to keep liquid nitrogen circulating through the line, and the Electric Power Research Institute.
The cost of the line, intended to serve an urban redevelopment project in Detroit, is estimated to be $5.5 million, $2.75 million of which will be paid by the Department of Energy.
Superconductivity was discovered in 1911 by a Dutch physicist, Haike Kamerlingh Onnes, when he used liquid helium at a temperature of minus 452 degrees Fahrenheit to chill metallic mercury. He found that at that temperature mercury loses all resistance to electric current.
The physics of superconductivity is complex, and despite the success of at least one theory, some questions remain. In general, a superconductor undergoes changes when sufficiently cooled that affect its "conduction electrons," the normally free electrons that wander through a metal and can carry an electric current.
In the simplest type of superconductivity, these electrons condense into pairs correlated with each other; the result is a kind of electronic fluid that conducts electricity without resistance.
Many metals were found to become superconductors when chilled with liquid helium, but liquid helium is too expensive and difficult to keep cold to be a practical coolant for large-scale superconducting power transmission. Despite this, inventors have envisioned giant superconducting storage rings that could provide huge amounts of power instantaneously for city power grids, or to power military beam weapons for use against ballistic missiles. Visionaries also sketched designs for magnetically levitated trains riding on fields generated by superconducting magnets.
But of all the possibilities, the one that beckoned most seductively was the dream of a superconducting power line -- one that could reduce transmission losses to practically zero, saving huge amounts of otherwise wasted energy.
Since 1911, several superconducting alloys, especially those based on the metal niobium, have found applications in superconducting magnets used for clinical diagnosis and in machines that accelerate subnuclear particles for scientific investigations of the nature of matter.
But hopes for building a superconducting power line remained unfulfilled. The main problem was that liquid helium is expensive and has to be constantly cooled by powerful refrigerators as it boils away. Engineers wished for some material that would become superconductive at much higher temperatures than that of liquid helium, perhaps even room temperature, or at least at the temperature of liquid nitrogen, which is minus 320 degrees Fahrenheit.
Scientists had all but given up hope of finding such a substance, but in 1986, two physicists working at I.B.M.'s Zurich Research Laboratory in Switzerland, Dr. Georg Bednorz and Dr. K. Alex Muller, made a momentous discovery, for which they were awarded a Nobel Prize a year later.
They found that a new class of compounds called copper-oxide perovskites (incorporating thin layers of copper and oxygen atoms) became superconductive at temperatures well above that of liquid nitrogen. Within weeks of their discovery, scores of other scientists turned up independent evidence of high-temperature superconductivity, and on the night of March 18, 1987, physicists packed a New York City hotel for a conference later dubbed the "Woodstock of Physics." At the meeting, scientists presented 51 reports of new superconductivity experiments, and riotous optimism dominated the proceedings.
But experimenters soon realized that copper oxide perovskites had a long way to go before they could be used for transmitting large electric currents. In some formulations, large currents destroyed superconductivity. It was also found that many high-temperature superconductors were so brittle that they could not be bent or fabricated into wire without breaking.
Another problem was "creep." In high-temperature superconductors, the current they carry induces a magnetic field outside them. This field then penetrates the superconductor as a lattice of "vortex lines" that define the superconductor's electronic behavior. As long as these lattices remain fixed in place (or "pinned," as scientists call it), superconductivity is maintained. But if the lattices creep out of place, superconductivity ceases.
Solving these problems took theoretical and experimental research that spanned a decade after the 1986 "Woodstock." But as the euphoria faded, real progress ensued.
American Superconductor drew technology from many sources, acquiring dozens of patents and licenses that finally enabled the company to produce a superconducting material suitable for a power line.
John Howe, a vice president of the company, identified the superconductor it is using for the Detroit line as BSCCO-2223, a finely powdered mixture of bismuth, strontium, calcium and copper oxide, to which a dash of lead is added. (The numbers in the formula denote the proportions of the elements in the compound.)
"We buy the powders commercially, mix them, pack them into silver tubes, and then extrude the tubes through dies to make microfilaments containing the superconductor," Mr. Howe said. "Then we bundle the filaments into wires, which we send to Pirelli for fabrication into cables."
The Pirelli company winds the wires helically around a channel in which the cold liquid nitrogen flows, and then encases the superconducting wire with layers of thermal and electrical insulation. For the Detroit project, Pirelli expects to manufacture the line in Italy.
The resulting line does not eliminate electrical resistance completely, Mr. Howe said. Where one fiber is in contact with another, the superconductive electric current is interrupted. It must take the form of ordinary current as it passes through the silver cladding enclosing the BSCCO (pronounced "bisco") superconductor, since the silver cladding is not a superconductor. Still, he said, the capacity of the line will be three times as large as that of a copper line.
Nine of the present four-inch-diameter copper power lines connecting a key transformer station with the distribution grid in Detroit will be replaced by three superconducting lines chilled with liquid nitrogen circulating through the cable cores.
One of the advantages of this, Mr. Howe said, is that dispersing the waste heat produced by a power line is a much less serious problem for a superconducting line than for a conventional copper line. This means that trenches dug for new lines can be narrower than those for ordinary conductors, and this will reduce the right of way utility companies must acquire.
Each superconducting four-inch cable will carry 2,400 amps of current at 2,400 volts.
Dr. Grant of the Electric Power Research Institute, who spent most of his career at I.B.M. as a solid-state physicist, said that it might be a long time before such lines were used over long distances. But superconductors can greatly reduce power bottlenecks within congested cities, he said.
A major use that may come soon will be in transformers, Dr. Grant predicted. A superconducting transformer will contain no oil to catch fire or spill causing toxic pollution, and would be a boon for utilities.
Once again, optimism pervades the community of scientists and engineers working on applications of superconductivity.
The contract to build the new Detroit power line, Secretary Richardson said, opens "the gateway to the electricity superhighway of the future" that will "transform the power delivery systems of the world."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times yesterday about plans to build a superconducting power line in Detroit misstated the nature of the achievement for which Dr. K. Alex Muller and Dr. Georg Bednorz received the 1987 Nobel Prize in Physics. Their prize was awarded for their discovery of a new class of superconducting substances, which conduct electricity without resistance at temperatures much warmer than liquid helium, minus 452 degrees Fahrenheit -- not for discovering a substance that becomes superconducting at liquid nitrogen temperatures of minus 320 degrees.
(Five months after the discovery that won Dr. Muller and Dr. Bednorz a Nobel prize, another team, led by Dr. Ching-Wu Chu and Dr. W. K. Wu of the University of Houston, compounded the first member in this class of substances to become a superconductor at liquid nitrogen temperatures.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Cool and Efficient"
Breakthroughs in high temperature superconductivity have led to the development of power lines that are two to five times more efficient than conventional copper lines. The increase in efficiency is achieved by passing the current through a low-resistance conductor which is cooled to minus 320 degrees Fahrenheit through the use of liquid nitrogen.
 
(Source: American Superconductor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PIL (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: LOTEPRO CORP (66%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (54%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUPERCONDUCTORS; POWER LINES; AIR POLLUTION SUPERCONDUCTORS (94%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; RICHARDSON, BILL (SEC) BILL RICHARDSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



94 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq and Amex Close to Deal To Move to Single Times Sq. Site

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
New York City and state officials are close to a deal to provide Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange with a $200 million subsidy package to build a new joint headquarters, probably in a skyscraper a block from Times Square, people involved with the talks said yesterday.
Under the terms of an agreement that was still being completed last night, the American Exchange, which is based in lower Manhattan, and Nasdaq, which is based in Washington, would build a new trading floor and a combined headquarters in New York. In turn, city and state officials would provide about $180 million in tax breaks and investment tax credits and $20 million to $25 million in cash for the project. 
 City and state officials and real estate executives say the markets will probably move to a 40-story skyscraper that a developer, Douglas Durst, plans to build on land between 42d and 43d Streets, from the middle of the block east to the Avenue of the Americas. Next door, Nasdaq is already erecting the largest sign in Times Square, a $15 million multimedia kaleidoscope, on the side of Mr. Durst's 48-story Conde Nast building, which is on Broadway between 42d and 43d Streets.
Should the markets move to the Times Square area, it would help solidify the emergence of midtown as another center of international finance. The move would also add to the growth of the Times Square area as an arena of pulsating signs, live theaters, giant media and entertainment companies, investment banks, MTV studios, restaurants and T-shirt shops.
Real estate and financial executives say the midtown location would be in keeping with efforts by Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which owns Nasdaq and Amex, to build a world financial market that would rival the New York Stock Exchange.
He acquired the American Exchange last week and has made a bid to acquire the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, which would presumably also move to New York should the bid be accepted.
"If Nasdaq moves to Times Square, it's clear they are looking to climb onto the world stage," said Ross Moskowitz, a real estate lawyer with Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. "A move to an internationally recognized location reinforces a trend: stock ownership is no longer limited to a few and now requires mass marketing."
If the markets cannot strike a deal with Mr. Durst, Nasdaq and Amex could transfer the $200 million benefit package to a second site at Battery Park City, people involved in the talks said. Another developer, World Financial Properties, has offered to build a tower for the markets there. Their first choice, though, is the Durst site in Times Square, city and state officials and real estate executives said.
Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, declined comment, as did Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation.
"We are talking to the city about an offer," Michael Jones, chief administrative officer of the National Association of Securities Dealers, said last night. "We have also received an offer from New Jersey. We are reviewing both."
Two people involved with the negotiations said a deal "was very close." A City Hall official said last night, "We expect to have a deal within a few days."
At first glance, Nasdaq and Amex might seem to be alien to Times Square. But in recent years, corporate law firms, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the investment firm, and Reuters, the giant British financial information services company, have found their way to the district.
Other financial markets are looking for new homes.
City and state officials are trying to complete a similar but even more expensive deal with the New York Stock Exchange, which, like Nasdaq, has threatened to move to New Jersey.
Government officials and executives at the exchange are wrestling over the size of the public subsidies for what is described as a $1.1 billion project on a block across the street from the market's historic home on Wall Street. At least initially, the New York Stock Exchange sought more than $400 million in cash and $300 million in tax breaks, people on both sides of the negotiations have said.
Fearing that the loss of the exchange would undercut a downtown revival, city officials have secured a tentative agreement with the owners of the block, where they want the exchange to build offices and new trading floors.
But it would probably cost about $300 million to acquire the property, which is known as the J. P. Morgan site. In the negotiations, the exchange has said the cost of land should be borne by the city and the state.
Negotiators for the exchange have tried to arrange larger state subsidies by continually raising the specter of moving across the Hudson River to Jersey City.
Late last month, Gualberto Medina, the New Jersey Secretary of Commerce, said he had increased the value of an incentive package he was offering the exchange.
The New York Stock Exchange also has expressed interest in the same vacant lot at Battery Park City that Nasdaq has considered.
"We'd like to see the New York Stock Exchange stay in the downtown area," Mr. Gargano said. "We have made it clear that we will be competitive with whatever New Jersey is offering. At the same time, we have to use state dollars prudently. There are others who are going to come to us in the future."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about a possible deal to provide Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange a subsidy for a new headquarters near Times Square misstated the location in some copies. As noted in the related article, the site is at the northwest corner of 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas, not the southeast.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The northwest corner of 42d Street and the Avenue of the Americas, with the Conde Nast building at left, at the far end of the block. If the deal goes through, the new market would fill most of the rest of the block. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (85%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (53%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STOCKS AND BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); THEATER (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; DURST, DOUGLAS DOUGLAS DURST (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998



95 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 2; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: In Hollywood, a Coffee Shop Can Be a Star

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Brad Pitt eats pancakes there. Sandra Bullock asks for huevos rancheros. Nicolas Cage shows up with his family for brunch. And Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau, over numerous cups of coffee, worked out the plot of the movie "Swingers" and actually filmed a crucial scene there.
No, it's not some trendy cafe with an unlisted phone number and a snooty policy of favoring celebrities, models and assorted hangers-on. It's the thoroughly nondescript Hollywood Hills Coffee Shop, (first come, first served) in a downscale Best Western Hotel on Franklin Avenue near Vine Street -- a part of town in need of urban renewal. 
 And what makes the coffee shop successful is not so much the movie and television clientele but the high-quality comfort-style food -- breakfast dishes all day -- which seems as unglamorous and basic as the street outside.
"We serve all day long because that, really, is the L.A. life style," said Susan Fine Moore, the coffee shop's owner, a onetime chef, restaurant consultant and food writer. "Here you're always driving somewhere -- you can have a meeting at noon, go over the hill to a studio in the valley and be finished at 2:30, and you're hungry. You go to a fancy restaurant, and they say, 'Oh, the kitchen's closed.' I don't understand that."
Ms. Moore took over the once-shabby restaurant with her husband, Michael Moore, a former model, in 1994. The food, she said, was "inedible, beyond crummy, embarrassing." Shaking her head, she said: "Half the time the lights weren't even on. There were dead fake plants in the window."
But the feisty Ms. Moore said the place had "good bones." With a $50,000 investment, the couple repainted, cleaned up, bought new dishes ("There wasn't a plate that matched," she said), built red Naugahyde booths, hired a new staff and created a sort of diner-Mex fusion menu. The dishes range from omelets and meat loaf to burritos and the popular torta tortillas (omelets made with tortillas and topped with salsa).
Shrewdly, Ms. Moore kept prices low (most dishes cost less than $10), sent out flyers in the neighborhood (which is populated by aspiring actors) and hung out a sign saying, "Last Cappuccino Before the 101." (Thousands of cars pass the restaurant en route to the nearby Route 101, the Hollywood Freeway; it was a signal, of course, that the coffee shop was coming up in the world.)
Its coffee shop roots give it little tolerance for Hollywood's diet fads. "We kind of pride ourselves on being an oasis from all that craziness," said Ms. Moore, who is planning to open another restaurant, the Bungalow, nearby. "There's a new diet, a new fad every week, but actually people seem a little bit less obsessed than they used to be about diets. Otherwise we wouldn't be so busy. Generation X is lovely -- they'll eat anything. And the older generation is figuring, I suppose, who wants to live to 108 if you can't put butter on your potato?"
In the first weeks of Ms. Moore's management of the restaurant, and as word spread, customers began to drift in, especially actors and others who live in the more affluent Hollywood Hills and Beachwood Canyon areas nearby. The earliest customers were noncelebrities in the film and television business who lived in the neighborhood -- set designers, makeup artists, costumers, cinematographers, writers, producers, midlevel executives. The comedy team that created the CBS show "Everybody Loves Raymond" used a back room at the restaurant to write the pilot.
Soon enough, celebrities began showing up -- Kevin Spacey, Gwyneth Paltrow, Edward Burns, Jennifer Aniston, Johnny Depp, Minnie Driver, Matthew McConaughey, Gary Oldman, Andy Garcia, Quentin Tarantino. Brad Pitt's arrival caused a bit of a stir. "It was like meeting, well, Burt Lancaster," said Ms. Moore, who is 50. And the place is starting to show up in some of the customers' material: Sandra Bernhard refers to it in her show opening Thursday night at the Booth Theater in New York, "I'm Still Here . . . Damn It!"
What do the customers like about it?
"It's just great food in a very relaxed atmosphere -- and you don't feel like everyone's craning their heads to see who's having breakfast with who," said Lorenzo Di Bonaventura, president of worldwide production at Warner Brothers, who often eats there in the morning on the way to work.
Jon Favreau, the actor, who was living in a $470-a-month apartment near the restaurant when Ms. Moore took it over, began spending afternoons there drinking coffee at a table with his friend Vince Vaughn, then another unemployed actor. They began plotting the screenplay for "Swingers," about unemployed actors in Hollywood. A key scene in the hit film -- in which Mr. Vaughn matches goo-goo eyes with a woman who turns out to be making faces at her baby -- was shot at the coffee shop.
"It was like a family atmosphere," Mr. Favreau said. "We didn't have a lot of money, and I lived in a tiny apartment up the block. I loved the people who ran the place, who made you feel like a big shot, even if you weren't. Very good portions -- you never left hungry."
Mr. Favreau, who grew up in New York, added: "It's a gathering place. You always run into a dozen people you know. It reminds me of places in Queens."
The restaurant's 2,500-square-foot dining area seats 88 people at 15 tables and a 14-seat counter. The prime tables are the half-dozen booths by the windows, but there are no reservations, and even well-known actors wait in line.
Sometimes people from as far west as Brentwood and Beverly Hills take the long drive to Hollywood for Sunday brunch.
"We have an inside joke," Ms. Moore said. "People from Brentwood come here, and if you take them to what we consider the best table, they'll refuse it right away. They have to refuse the first table you show them. We'll call them on it. We'll say, 'Are you from Brentwood?' They'll say, 'How did you know?'
 
TORTA TORTILLA
Adapted from Hollywood Hills Coffee Shop
Time: 30 minutes
 
 12 6-inch corn tortillas
 14 large eggs
 6 teaspoons butter
 1 1/2 cups shredded ranchero or other mild cheese
 Tomatillo Sauce (recipe follows)
 3 cups cooked black beans (optional).
1. Heat oven to 200 degrees. Soften the tortillas by sprinkling lightly with water and warming briefly on a grill or hot skillet.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, combine the eggs, and whisk until well blended. Set a fine strainer over a bowl, and pour the mixture into the strainer. Whisk until it has drained into the bowl. Set aside.
3. In a 6- or 7-inch nonstick skillet over medium-low heat, melt 1 teaspoon butter. Add 1/4 cup egg mixture, and immediately add 1 tortilla. Quickly tilt the pan (or turn the tortilla with a fork) to coat both sides with egg. Immediately add another 1/4 cup egg mixture and another tortilla. Again coat the top of the tortilla with egg.
4. Allow the bottom of the torta to set and lightly brown, 1 to 2 minutes. Using a spatula, flip the torta to brown the other side. Transfer to a heat-proof platter, and keep warm in the oven. Repeat the process to make a total of six tortas.
5. To serve, transfer a torta to each of six serving plates. Top each with 1/4 cup shredded cheese, and a spoonful of Tomatillo Sauce. Pass the remaining sauce separately. If desired, serve with a side dish of black beans.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
TOMATILLO SAUCE
Time: 45 minutes
 
 20 tomatillos, husks removed
 3 whole jalapenos, stems removed
 1 onion, chopped
 1 cup loosely packed cilantro
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper.
1. In a medium saucepan, combine the tomatillos, the jalapenos, the onion and the cilantro. Add just enough water to cover. Place over high heat, bring to a boil, then reduce heat to low. Simmer until the tomatillos are softened, about 30 minutes. Drain the mixture into a clean pan or bowl, reserving the liquid.
2. Transfer the vegetables to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse until finely chopped. Add just enough of the cooking liquid, about 1/4 cup, to thin the mixture to a fluid sauce. Mix well, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Refrigerate until needed.
Yield: 3 cups.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NOTHING FANCY EXCEPT THE CUSTOMERS -- Michelle Phillips digs in to lunch at the Hollywood Hills Coffee Shop, in a rundown section of Hollywood; READY FOR ITS CLOSE-UP -- This row of booths made its screen debut at a crucial point in "Swingers." (Photographs by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: HOLLYWOOD HILLS COFFEE SHOP (HOLLYWOOD, CALIF) BEST WESTERN HOTELS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (57%); BEST WESTERN HOTELS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOLLYWOOD HILLS COFFEE SHOP (HOLLYWOOD, CALIF)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLLYWOOD (CALIF); UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); FILM (90%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); DIETING (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD BRAD PITT (74%); NICOLAS CAGE (73%); SANDRA BULLOCK (73%); VINCE VAUGHN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



96 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Customer complaintsabout airlines and hotels are on the rise, but don't expect many changes.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
THERE is nothing new about complaints of crowded airplanes, cramped airline seats and high-priced hotel rooms that do not allow guests to check in before midafternoon -- and which, when they do finally check in, they frequently find dirty. But the complaints have grown louder in each of the last five or six years since the airline and hotel industries struggled back from the financial brink.
Nevertheless, it is still surprising to hear strangers and casual acquaintances say only half in jest that an economic downturn could bring about a return to better service, lower prices, more legroom and more amenities. But while any of that is possible, industry executives say, it is highly unlikely. 
 "In a recession, customer service would either stay the same or possibly get worse, due to financial pressure on the airlines," said Travis Tanner, chief executive of Carlson Wagonlit Travel, who is a former airline official. "What will attract customers in a downturn are changes in pricing and scheduling, as opposed to more legroom, headroom or extra danish."
Moreover, airlines are better prepared for a recession or economic slowdown this time around. Marginal or unprofitable routes have been trimmed, and smaller, more efficient planes have replaced the jumbo jets that once served even secondary markets. The same is true even in ailing international markets; UAL's United Airlines dropped its service between San Francisco and Manila last February, for example, and Northwest Airlines recently reduced its capacity in the Pacific by 15 percent when it took four 747's out of service last month.
 
Boon for Frequent Fliers
This month is shaping up as a good one for frequent fliers. United Airlines, Northwest, Trans World Airlines, Delta Air Lines and US Airways are offering double frequent-flier miles in November on all or most flights, while AMR's American Airlines is offering them for passengers who pay full fare and travel within and between the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. As usual, restrictions apply. Why so many double-mile offerings? Because all the other airlines matched Northwest, which offered them as a way to bring back customers after its recent 18-day strike, followed by 7 more days before Northwest resumed full operations.
In addition to the double miles awarded to all qualifying passengers this month, Delta has agreed to give double miles and discounted tickets to a relative handful of passengers who were Delta frequent-flier members prior to July 1, 1988, and had at least 40,000 miles in their accounts. The decision is part of a tentative settlement in a lawsuit filed 10 years ago in Cook County Circuit Court in Illinois, charging Delta with changing its frequent-flier program to limit the number of free tickets that members could acquire.
 
More Smoking Bans
The number of airlines banning smoking on flights continues to grow. Less than two weeks ago, the three Brazilian airlines that fly to the United States -- Varig, VASP and Transbrasil -- banned smoking, in accordance with a new Brazilian law that prohibits smoking on international and domestic flights. Japan Airlines, whose domestic flights have been smoke-free for two months, will ban smoking on its international flights beginning April 1, 1999. All Swissair flights have been nonsmoking since last June; to help smokers, the airline offers nicotine chewing gum on long flights.
 
Unruly Passengers
Airline officials say there are too many unruly passengers on flights, but they are divided about whether in-flight assaults and incidents are increasing. T.W.A., for one, thinks they are becoming more frequent -- which is why last spring three T.W.A. flight attendants and a pilot testified against an abusive passenger who flew from New York to Orlando, Fla., with her child and 10 other family members. For intimidating the flight crew and interfering with crew members' duties, she was jailed for almost three months. In Britain two months ago, a judge sentenced a London woman to 15 months in jail for head-butting a British Airways flight attendant and spitting at another. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; US AIRWAYS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; VARIG AIRLINES; VASP BRAZILIAN AIRLINES; TRANSBRASIL; JAPAN AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (68%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; US AIRWAYS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; VARIG AIRLINES; VASP BRAZILIAN AIRLINES; TRANSBRASIL; JAPAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; HOTELS AND MOTELS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; ASSAULTS AIRLINES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); SMOKING BANS (89%); SMOKING (87%); LODGING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AIR SERVICE (74%); LOYALTY MARKETING (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STRIKES (67%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



97 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Leading Index Is Unchanged Once Again

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators was unchanged in September for a second consecutive month, according to figures released today, suggesting that the economy may be slowing at a time when Federal Reserve policy makers are considering whether to cut interest rates again.
The index has been flat or falling for four of the last five months, and that "reinforces the belief that there will be a softening" in the economy's growth rate in coming months, said Joel Naroff, chief bank economist at First Union in Philadelphia. 
 That means central bankers, who meet again Nov. 17, have room to cut interest rates for a third time since the end of September if borrowing costs for companies do not get cheaper on their own.
"Their main focus right now is the conditions in the financial markets," said James Glassman, chief United States economist at Chase Securities Inc. in New York. Since mid-August, corporate bond yields have risen relative to comparable Treasury issues, making it more expensive for companies to finance expansion.
Even so, consumer spending continues strong, especially on expensive items like cars. The Chrysler Corporation reported today that United States car and truck sales rose 20 percent in October. Car sales for Chrysler, the No. 3 auto maker, rose 27 percent, while sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles rose 17 percent.
The sales results bolstered expectations of a strong month for auto sales as low interest rates fed consumer demand.
The leading indicators index -- compiled by the Conference Board, a business research group -- tracks 10 indicators each month. Of those, five made a negative contribution in September, four made a positive contribution and one was unchanged.
Some indicators sent mixed signals, however. Orders for nonmilitary capital goods fell sharply in September, down 3.6 percent after a 9 percent gain in August. Economists, though, exclude orders for commercial aircraft -- which can be volatile -- when judging business spending. On that basis, capital goods orders rose 6.3 percent in September, the biggest gain in months.
And, while the index also recorded a drop in the overall level of consumer confidence as calculated by the University of Michigan, what is not shown is that consumers said they were confident about their individual situations. Analysts with access to the Michigan data say the number of people who say they are planning to buy new homes and new cars stayed near record levels.
"Confidence may have dropped, but it hasn't caused consumers to stop spending," said Van Bussmann, Chrysler's chief economist.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" tracks index of 10 indicators designed to "lead," or predict overall economic activity, from April 1997 through September 1998. (Source: Commerce Departent)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis" lists components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from August to September. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); CHASE SECURITIES INC (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); MINIVANS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (74%); BONDS (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); BOND MARKETS (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (67%); PICKUP TRUCKS (66%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



98 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Paper Maker Cuts Output

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The Stone Container Corporation has temporarily closed a mill in Montana, the company's second-biggest plant, as sagging Asian economies sharply reduce demand for the paper used to make cardboard boxes. Stone Container, based in Chicago, closed the plant in Missoula last Wednesday and expects to resume production by the end of this month. The shutdown will remove as much as 55,300 tons, or 1.1 percent of the company's total annual capacity, of containerboard, the thick paper used in boxes. About 540 of the mill's 670 workers were laid off.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: STO (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (95%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MISSOULA, MT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STONE CONTAINER CORP STONE CONTAINER CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: STONE CONTAINER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); MONTANA, USA (90%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS PAPER MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); CLOSINGS (88%); PLANT CAPACITY (88%); PAPER MILLS (88%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



99 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Issues Climb Amid Signs That Economy Is Slowing

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices rose for the first time in three sessions yesterday amid signs that the economy is slowing and as the highest yields in nearly two months attracted buyers.
After recent declines, "we're getting to levels now where Treasuries are attractive again" given expectations for low inflation and slower growth, said Dave Capurro, who manages about $520 million at Franklin Resources in San Mateo, Calif. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 17/32, to 104 11/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.21 percent from 5.25 percent.
Bond yields have climbed from a record low 4.69 percent on Oct. 5 as some investors swapped safer Treasuries for riskier securities, betting they had seen the worst of a global economic slowdown and selling in world stock markets.
Bonds rallied through September as investors sought the world's safest securities while Japan fell into recession, Russia devalued its currency and stock markets around the world tumbled.
To stabilize world economies, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates twice, to 5 percent from 5.5 percent. And the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations announced plans to help avert financial crises.
Though investors say the Fed will probably cut interest rates at least once more, most analysts say there's no longer a need for a series of further cuts. Treasury bonds have returned 15.6 percent to investors so far this year, including price gains and reinvested interest payments. By contrast, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 11.4 percent, including dividend payments.
To be sure, the market faces the immediate hurdle of the Treasury's three-part quarterly auctions, for $38 billion, which raised concerns about a temporary glut of securities. The Government began the sales yesterday with an auction of $16 billion in five-year notes, which met only tepid demand.
The Treasury sold the notes at a yield of 4.34 percent, 1 basis point higher than expected. Investors submitted bids for 1.8 times the amount of notes for sale. In the previous 10 five-year auctions, investors bid for 2.4 times the amount of notes for sale, on average.
Now traders are concerned that the $12 billion 10-year sale today and the $10 billion 30-year sale tomorrow will not attract many buyers. "We still have two more auctions ahead of us, so there's a bit of uncertainty," said Mark Sauvigne, a bond trader at Chase Securities Inc.
Following are the results of the auction for five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.599
High Yield . . . 4.340%
Low Yield . . . 4.250%
Median Yield . . . 4.300%
Total applied for . . . $31,398,418
Accepted . . . $18,619,933
Noncompetitive . . . $293,728
Interest set at . . . 4 1/4
 
The five-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "5-Year Treasury Notes" tracks high yields at monthly auction, since 1997. (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CHASE SECURITIES INC (61%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); DEVALUATION (72%); DIVIDENDS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



100 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Los Angeles Times To Cut Work Force

 BODY:
With its advertising revenue falling short of projections and three resource-intensive news initiatives just getting under way, The Los Angeles Times announced yesterday that it would cut its 6,400-member work force by 250 people, or nearly 4 percent.
The newspaper is trying to return its staffing to the leaner level of 1995, when it eliminated the equivalent of 700 full-time jobs. 
 High-margin help-wanted advertising, which accounts for more than 16 percent of total advertising revenue, fell sharply in the third quarter. This setback came as the paper, which is owned by the Times Mirror Company, was bringing out its Southern California Living section, which started on Sunday, and its national edition, which started Oct. 5.
More than 40 new positions have been added to the news department this year for these ventures and for expanded business and health coverage. About 50 jobs in the regional Ventura and Valley editions -- about one-third of the total -- are now being eliminated.
Most of those employees are expected to find jobs elsewhere in the 1,100-member news department. Over all, 30 news employees will leave the newspaper through a voluntary severance program, as will 20 in the operations department.
Customer service calls will be contracted to APAC Teleservices; 130 employees who did this work will be laid off. The remaining layoffs will be scattered around the newspaper.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); TIMES MIRROR CO (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



101 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: Staying in Vogue;
Clothing DesignersAdjust to a Vastly Changed World

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Walk inside any major department store, and the troubles that have torn the fabric of the fashion industry are evident.
In recent weeks, Isaac Mizrahi closed its doors, and Anne Klein has been put on the block after losing money for several years. A shakeout among small design companies has left men's, women's and children's clothing departments dominated by a handful of big designers such as Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan and Ralph Lauren. And as smaller designers close their doors, the big fashion companies command even more influence with retailers and gain more space for their clothing in stores. 
 "When you walk into the stores, you can walk onto a floor and you can notice immediately who controls that floor," said Mari Harkins, a senior director of merchandising at Donna Karan International Inc.
The slump in the fashion industry is also evident in Bryant Park in midtown Manhattan, where the American fashion industry's latest showcase of women's wear collections is under way. The roster for this year's shows is littered with cancellations from companies that have fallen as well as those that decided to forgo the hundreds of thousands of dollars required to put on a show.
Earlier this year, Kenar Enterprises Ltd. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and Andrea Jovine shut its doors. Todd Oldham has closed his wholesale collection business. Adrienne Vittadini has resigned from her namesake company, now owned by Marisa Christina Inc. And Nautica Enterprises will end a licensing agreement with Bernard Chaus Inc. for its women's business, leaving the future of the line uncertain.
The thinning ranks of independent designers stems to some degree from a gradual erosion in consumer confidence. With signs of an economic slowdown ahead, shoppers have been reining in their free-spending ways. But the industry shakeout is also a ripple effect from an earlier consolidation among department stores that weakened fashion's grip on retailing.
After waves of mergers in the 1980's and 90's, there are now only three major department store chains: the May Company, Federated Department Stores and Dillard's. Department stores are putting more pressure on fashion companies to assume a greater share of the risk for selling their products, helping to guarantee profits for the store. Department stores keep inventories low, but they require shipments of new styles more often and have reduced the numbers of styles they carry. Fashion companies often bear the brunt of the expense for insuring that their products are displayed appropriately on selling floors and they may be responsible for covering a portion of sales clerks' salaries.
"Department stores are trying to add more value and cut costs substantially," said an investment banker at Merrill Lynch & Company.
To increase their influence over retailers, Donna Karan, Tommy Hilfiger and Ralph Lauren have expanded into lower-priced lines. Discount chains have added to the competitive environment by introducing their own designer products. As a result, small designers, especially those that link couture to mainstream fashion in a product known as a bridge line, are under intense pressure to justify their existence.
"The apparel industry is a microcosm of the big picture" of the economy, said Bud Konheim, chief executive of Nicole Miller, a company once synonymous with a must-have little black dress. "It's survival of the fittest, and it offers tremendous opportunities for those who know how to survive."
Indeed, the $85 billion women's apparel market has been been relatively flat, with revenue growing just 12 percent in the last five years, according to Tactical Retail Monitor, an industry newsletter. For many fashion companies, that means the only way to gain market share has been to grab it from other companies, and the stiff competition has caused designers to cut prices this year by about 30 percent, retail analysts and executives said.
Even large, publicly held fashion companies have not been immune, and their shares prices have suffered this year. While some companies have increased their presence in stores and have seen gains -- often, however, through lower prices -- investors have been resolutely downbeat about the prospects for consumer spending and fashion.
Shares of Donna Karan, for example, are down more than 41 percent this year; they fell yesterday after the company reported third-quarter earnings that were below Wall Street estimates and warned that it would only break even for the year.
Other apparel and fashion stocks have been weak. Liz Claiborne is down almost 25 percent for the year and Jones Apparel is off 13 percent. Faring slightly better is Polo Ralph Lauren, down about 9 percent, while Tommy Hilfiger is ahead of the pack, with its stock up about 32 percent this year.
But there are smaller, independent design companies that have thrived lately, in many cases by rethinking they way they do business to compete in leaner times.
Companies such as Nicole Miller and Tahari Ltd., a bridge sportswear company, are streamlining inventories and speeding up production to respond more quickly to changing tastes and to eliminate the need to cut prices to sell slow-moving products. Others, like the women's suit maker Kasper ASL Ltd., are scrambling to consolidate to gain more clout with retailers and broaden their product lines.
More important, they and other companies such as BCBG Max Azria and Garfield & Marks are trying to wrest themselves from the control of the department store giants by showcasing their fashions in small specialty shops or in their own retail stores. Selling in smaller shops means giving up a potentially larger sales volume, but it also frees them from the pressures of slashing prices to compete.
Nicole Miller now collects 80 percent of its sales through specialty stores. The change has given the company more control of its supply so that it can quickly curb production of unpopular items and limit price cuts. Mr. Konheim, Nicole Miller's chief, said.
For Max Azria, the success of its own stores has given it increased leverage with department stores. With 70 retail stores in the United States and 12 overseas, sales at the company have jumped to a projected $280 million from about $1.3 million nine years ago.
This week, Max Azria fashions are featured in several display windows at the flagship Bloomingdale's store in Manhattan. And the company expects to increase its selling space in the department store by about 50 percent next year, said Max Azria, the president and chief designer.
"People think this business is an easy business and that anybody can do it," he said. "But I am a very creative businessman and a very creative fashion designer. When people think the two specialties are not possible it's because they cannot do it."
The harsh business environment means that a hot young designer can no longer expect to follow in the footsteps of Calvin Klein and start up a design company that quickly becomes a licensing powerhouse. Instead, there has been a growing trend of designers for hire, which lets designers maintain their own independent business while offering their creative talent to other established firms.
Fashion companies, too, have looked outside their ranks for designers to bolster their lines.
Tse, known for its luxury line of cashmere clothing, chose an outside designer, Hussein Chalayan, who has his own successful line, to design a new sportswear line, Tse New York.
"The rules have to evolve," said Rebecca Shafer, creative director for Tse. "When you're not open to new rules, you might get your company into trouble."
The new rules may include expanding into new markets and distinguishing their products by using innovative fabrics and designs.
The upscale sportswear designer Yeohlee Teng, for instance, is using new fabrics to create an entire line that is stain resistant and water repellent.
And last year, Elie Tahari and his partner, Andrew Rosen, a former Anne Klein executive, started a new company and contemporary sportswear line, Theory, which uses Lycra to create a line of men's and women's clothing. Theory sales have tripled this year.
The creation of the line has solidified Mr. Tahari's move into the realm of casual sportswear and away from his 1970's career suits for women, which earned him the nickname "king of the jacket."
Tahari has also been successful in using the quick manufacturing turnaround that is a hallmark of its contemporary sportswear in the company's broader fashion line.
Recently, for example, the company noticed that a new deep-pocketed cargo pant it had been late to bring to market was selling well. As a result, the company quickly produced 2,000 additional pairs and had them in stores within two months.
Despite the leaner times over all, there has not been much consolidation in the fashion industry. But that may be changing, according to investment bankers at Merrill Lynch.
Companies like Liz Claiborne, which owns the Dana Buchman bridge line and Jones Apparel, which produces Ralph Lauren's moderately priced Lauren sportswear line, have used acquisitions to build their businesses and edge smaller companies out of department store space.
Now other companies are joining in. When news appeared late last month about a potential sale of Anne Klein & Company, another well-known bridge sportswear line that has been struggling for years, at least three companies showed interest in buying it, in part because of its lucrative licensing potential.
Bigger companies have a better chance of withstanding the rough road ahead that some analysts predict for the industry.
Josie Esquivel, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, forecasts that apparel sales will grow about 1 percent to 2 percent this year, down from an earlier forecast of about 3 percent to 4 percent growth.
Contributing to the slowdown is a perceived lack of freshness among the apparel industry's current offerings, analysts say.
"There's not all that much that's new," Ms. Esquivel said.
But fashion is capable of surprises. There will always be independent designers who will catch the public's eye, and some may end up on a different path than that of Mr. Mizrahi, who says he plans to pursue a career in another fickle industry, the movie business.
"If people see something at the right price and it's a product that they need, they'll buy it," Ms. Esquivel said. "Department stores, even in a slowdown, don't close their doors. They tend to focus on those suppliers they can count on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some smaller, independent companies, like that of Elie Tahari, shown in his Manhattan office with some of his models, are streamlining inventories and speeding up production so they can respond more quickly to shifting tastes in fashion. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Photos: "Fashion Victims"
Squeezed by department stores that are devoting more of their space to fewer name-brand designers, a number of smaller, more off-beat designers are giving up the fashion business.
 
WINNERS
Tommy Hilfiger
Experiencing broad success; stock doing well, expanding into lower-priced lines.
 
Donna Karan
Gaining market share by expanding into lower-priced lines, but still a financial disappointment to Wall Street.
 
Ralph Lauren
Strong growth in both men's and women's fashions, but its stock is down for the year.
 
LOSERS
 
Isaac Mizrahi
Recently closed its doors.
 
Kenar
Filed for bankruptcy earlier this year.
 
Adirenne Vittadini
Designer resigned from her namesake firm.
 
Anne Klein
For sale after losing money for many years
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%); DL7A (FRA) (52%); DDS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2335 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' DRESSES (67%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (66%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (66%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (66%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HILFIGER, TOMMY, CORP; KARAN, DONNA, INTERNATIONAL INC; LAUREN, RALPH, INC; ANNE KLEIN; KENAR ENTERPRISES LTD DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (82%); KENAR ENTERPRISES LTD (67%); HAMPSHIRE GROUP LTD (66%); BERNARD CHAUS INC (66%); MACY'S INC (58%); DILLARD'S INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: HILFIGER, TOMMY, CORP; KARAN, DONNA, INTERNATIONAL INC; LAUREN, RALPH, INC; ANNE KLEIN; KENAR ENTERPRISES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INDUSTRY PROFILES FASHION & APPAREL (93%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); WOMEN (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); MERGERS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (51%); RESIGNATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R; HILFIGER, TOMMY; KARAN, DONNA; LAUREN, RALPH; MIZRAHI, ISAAC; VITTADINI, ADRIENNE RALPH LAUREN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



102 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Chrysler Posts 20% Rise For Sales in October
Chrysler reported that its car and truck sales rose 20 percent in October compared with figures from the month a year earlier, indicating another strong month for industry vehicle sales despite waning consumer confidence. 
 Other auto makers also reported excellent sales. Toyota Motor Sales reported its best-ever October sales for its Toyota and Lexus divisions. And American Honda reported its Honda and Acura sales increased 10 percent for its best October. Page C3.
 
Stocks Mixed in Sluggish Trading
Stocks were narrowly mixed in fairly sluggish trading as investors resisted pushing prices, which are now at levels not seen in nearly three months, any higher. The Dow Jones industrial average finished unchanged at 8,706.15, while the S.& P. 500 and Nasdaq declined slightly. C11.
 
Bond prices rose for the first time in three sessions as the yield on the 30-year bond fell to 5.21 percent, from 5.25 percent. C11.
 
Britain Seen Warming to Euro
With subtle shifts of tone and emphasis, Gordon Brown, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, and other members of the British Government are signaling new warmth toward the soon-to-be-introduced single European currency, promising to divulge a "national changeover plan" for the euro earlier than many people had previously thought. C2.
 
Single Currency Already a Force
While the advent of the euro, Europe's single currency, is still weeks away, it is already a financial force, both in currency trading and in European capital markets, where it has begun to alter the ways in which governments do business. Market Place. C10.
 
Leading Indicators Stay Unchanged
The index of leading economic indicators was unchanged in September for a second consecutive month, suggesting that the economy may be slowing at a time when Federal Reserve policy makers are considering whether to cut interest rates again. C5.
 
Indonesia Struggling With Debt
For 2,000 Indonesian companies that have racked up $67 billion in foreign corporate debt, one factor holds true for them all: they cannot pay their bills, and the patience of their creditors is wearing thin. C2.
 
Equitable Profit Declines 23%
Equitable, the financial services and insurance concern, posted a 23 percent decline in third-quarter earnings largely because its investment business was hurt by the summer upheavals in global stock and bond markets. Shares of Equitable, which is controlled by AXA of France, fell $1.125, to $47.75. C3.
 
Walt Disney said its fiscal fourth-quarter net income fell 24 percent because of weak films and lower demand for its products in some places. C6.
 
Donna Karan International said its third-quarter profits rose more than eightfold, but the results missed Wall Street estimates. C4.
 
British Petroleum said its operating profit fell 36 percent in the third quarter, which was less than expected. C2.
 
ABC Locks Out Striking Workers
Two thousand ABC employees who went on a 24-hour strike on Monday were not allowed to return to work. Signs were posted on doors of ABC's offices and studios in five cities announcing a lockout of workers. D9.
 
Los Angeles Times to Cut Jobs
The Los Angeles Times said it would cut its 6,400-person work force by 250 people, or nearly 4 percent. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,706.15, Unchanged
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.21%, down 0.04
The Dollar -- 115.33 yen, up 0.60
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Factory Orders
 September figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.5%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of Equitable, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CS (PAR) (54%); AXJ (ASX) (54%); AXA (BIT) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (51%); BP (NYSE) (50%); BP (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (50%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); AXA (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%); BP PLC (50%); DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



103 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Pitch in to Help a Farmer Become Something Else

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: MONKTON, Vt., Oct. 29

 BODY:
The classified advertisement was tucked away on page 22 of the Addison County Independent, the twice-weekly paper serving 7,000 readers in the shadow of the Green Mountains.
"Heartfelt thanks," it began, "to all the friends and neighbors who supported our family during the three long years Sam was in Boston at school. You chauffeured the kids, helped Eugenie fix things, chase heifers, and keep a sense of humor." 
 The ad went on to make special mention of the teachers at the Monkton Central School, "who showed us enthusiasm for lifelong learning." Even, it added, "in a middle-aged farmer's Quixotic journey to law school."
"We survived," the ad said. "Sam's home."
Eugenie Doyle, a 46-year-old substitute teacher at the elementary school, spent $19.60 to place that ad on Oct. 5. It was intended to reach the 1,687 residents of this farming and bedroom community about 55 miles south of the Canadian border, who had picked up the slack for her absent husband, however deeply it had pained her to ask for help.
"When you say thank you," she said in an interview, "you realize how much you've been given, and how rich you are."
In 1995, battered by an economy that set the price of milk well below what it cost to produce it, Ms. Doyle's husband, Sam Burr, made a change. After two decades as a dairy farmer -- the only job he had ever really known or wanted, but a job in which he had run up losses of $30,000 in some years -- Mr. Burr decided to go to law school at age 44.
He picked the law, he said, because he "wanted to make a difference." There were 3,688 dairy farmers in Vermont when he bought his first farm in 1975; this year, there were 1,770. And those who were left, Mr. Burr reasoned, could probably use an advocate who understood the pressures bearing on them.
Mr. Burr picked Northeastern University in Boston, 260 miles southeast, because it was close enough for him to travel home on the weekends. And after the first year, there was a co-op program, which meant that he could alternate three-month terms on campus with internships in Vermont.
But Mr. Burr, a wiry man with thick gray sideburns, also wanted to escape for a while.
Two years earlier, he had been forced to auction the last of the 59 heifers in his herd. And for a man who prefers the company of cows to people -- his cows' names, including Rocket and Lulu, are memorialized in a folder on his desk titled "Gone but Not Forgotten" -- there was only so much empty barn he could take.
"There is nothing more frustrating than being on a farm, watching things go downhill and not being able to figure out how not to make it happen," he said, walking past rows of organic strawberries grown by his wife to provide "grocery money" in his absence.
Holding out hope that they could find him something else to do, his wife had begged him not to go to law school. "It seemed like, first the cows go, then the equipment, then the farmer," she said.
But scraping together tuition money from the sale of eight residential lots carved from the farm's 270 acres, as well as with loans from relatives, Mr. Burr departed for Boston in August 1995.
It would not be his first time in school there: Mr. Burr had graduated from Harvard in 1974 with a degree in anthropology. He had hoped at the time, he said, to attend a more rural school but had been talked out of the idea by Harvard's president, Dr. Nathan M. Pusey, a family friend.
At Northeastern, Mr. Burr discovered that he loved learning about the law and became an active participant in class discussions, where fellow students referred to him as Pops.
Meanwhile, his wife was feeling his loss. On the first day of school after he had left, Ms. Doyle got a flat tire with her daughter, Nora, then 11, and her twin sons, Silas and Caleb, then 8, in the car. She realized she would have to call a neighbor for help, but that was hardly something that came naturally.
"Farmers can be really isolated," she said. "You kind of stick to yourselves."
She did call, and John Padua, who owns a nearby nursery, responded. Ms. Doyle wanted to fix the tire herself. He took the kids to school.
A week or so later, a neighbor who lives on the edge of the family's farm, Robin Hopps, telephoned Ms. Doyle at the school to say that the heifers being boarded on Ms. Doyle's property -- their home farm had grown too small -- were loose. Rounding up her children from their classes, she returned to find the problem: her husband had given permission, unbeknown to her, for a bull to be temporarily lodged there as well. He had trampled the fence.
That night, the bull got out again and was somehow held at bay in Ms. Hopps's compost heap by her housemate, Wendi Sue Harper. Ms. Doyle, twisting the animal's tail, got him home.
There were other kindnesses by neighbors that Ms. Doyle logged: one fixed the furnace in the middle of the night, another moved the refrigerator, and any number picked up one child at soccer practice while she picked up the other. For the children the hardest part was when their father "had to leave on Sunday," said Caleb, now 12.
Now Mr. Burr is home, and his family is getting used to the idea of seeing him in a suit. Before this year, he had only owned two: a black one from high school, which still fit, and one he inherited from his grandfather two decades ago.
He is working, for the time being, at the Vermont Legislative Council, a government agency that helps legislators draft bills. Though he still hopes to work on behalf of farmers, he has not quite figured out how.
For now, Mr. Burr works in a cramped office adjacent to the Statehouse, where atop his computer sits a faded blue corduroy hat, with the name of the Blue Seal grain company emblazoned on the front.
He had worn it, he said, every day of his life as a farmer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Vermont farm family used this newspaper advertisement to thank neighbors for three years of help.; Sam Burr, second from left, was able to leave his dairy farm in Monkton, Vt., and go to law school thanks to years of help from his neighbors. He attended school in Boston, 260 miles from home. At far left is his son Silas; to his left are his daughter, Nora; his wife, Eugenie Doyle, and his son Caleb. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Monkton, Vt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONCKTON (VT); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; LEGAL PROFESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LAW SCHOOLS (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); MOUNTAINS (72%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (71%); AUCTIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MILK (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (65%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; BURR, SAM; DOYLE, EUGENIE SAM BURR (95%); EUGENIE DOYLE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



104 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE MESSAGE -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
Voters Show Own Agenda

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
The votes Americans cast in yesterday's midterm elections will inevitably have an impact on the impeachment proceedings against President Clinton and hence on the remaining months of his Presidency. But according to a survey of voters leaving the polls, that was not what most had on their minds.
"This election will have an effect on Clinton's future," said Ferrel Guillory of the University of North Carolina, one of the swing states in the balloting. "But that doesn't mean Clinton's past had much effect on this election. Everything I've seen and heard suggests the opposite." 
 But because the Democrats fared better than expected, bucking historical precedent, some of the steam is likely to go out of the impeachment process. And one major reason, the polls suggested, was broad public disapproval of the way Republican leaders in Congress have handled the Clinton investigation.
In the Ohio River Valley, Democrats won close House races in three states. They turned out two incumbent Republican Senators, Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York and Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina, both of whom waged harsh, negative television campaigns that were devised by Arthur Finkelstein, a prominent New York media consultant.
Senator Ernest F. Hollings Jr. of South Carolina, one of the last Democratic survivors of the one-party South, won re-election in the face of a stiff challenge, and Democrats defeated Republican governors in Alabama and South Carolina. Another Democrat, Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, one of the chief backers of campaign finance reform, survived a multimillion-dollar onslaught of television attacks financed by its opponents.
But Republicans took a Democratic seat in Illinois, and other Senate races appeared headed for photo finishes, reflecting a close partisan division that also showed up in the polls.
Across the country, nearly 6 voters in 10 said their votes had been cast neither in support of nor in opposition to Mr. Clinton, but for other reasons. About 2 in 10 told interviewers for a consortium of five television networks and The Associated Press that they were expressing backing for the President, and about the same number said they were expressing disapproval of him.
Still, preliminary tallies suggested that the Democrats may have succeeded in stimulating a sizeable black voter turnout with last-minute efforts including a visit by Mr. Clinton to a black church in Baltimore on Sunday and a television spot that concluded: "Next Tuesday, vote Democratic. And tell Congress we're ready to move on."
If the vote did not turn upon the President, it may have been substantially affected by resentment of the tactics of Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, and the Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee. The weaker-than-expected Republican showing will mean not only fewer anti-Clinton votes in the House and Senate, but also less zealous pursuit of the President.
Among those elected were all 435 of the representatives who will be called upon next year, if the process unfolds as expected, to vote "yea" or "nay" on articles of impeachment. Also chosen, in an election in which fewer than 4 of 10 eligible voters participated, were a third of those who will sit as jurors if the House sends the case to the Senate for trial.
Clearly, neither Republican efforts to demonize the President for his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky through a late flurry of ads in pivotal districts, nor Democratic efforts to picture Congressional Republicans as mindless partisans determined to savage Mr. Clinton, succeeded in making the election a referendum on the President.
It was not, in fact, a referendum at all. Unlike the Republican sweep of four years ago, this was a typical midterm election in the sense that people tended to respond to the candidates themselves and to issues that seemed important locally rather than to national imperatives.
"This was a Seinfeld election," said Curtis Gans, who heads a group that monitors voter turnout. "He said his show wasn't about anything and neither was this election."
When people were pressed to say what issue mattered most in their voting, almost a quarter mentioned either the Lewinsky matter or "moral and ethical issues." But more than three-quarters mentioned other issues like education, Social Security, jobs or taxes, with education at the head of the list. Schools were featured in commercials, handbills and stump speeches in several of the hardest-fought contests.
In a number of ways, the exit poll confirmed the findings of dozens of surveys in the last six months. Voters expressed approval of Mr. Clinton's performance as President -- two-thirds gave him a favorable rating -- disapproval of his personal conduct and disappointment at the Republican Congress's performance. Most said they would just as soon see the impeachment matter dropped, though voters were divided, the exit poll found, on whether Congress should censure the President.
They also expressed robust confidence in the national economy.
"Over all, the country is happy with its lot," a Republican strategist said last weekend. "No winds of discontent, no tidal waves of change."
There were other factors favoring the status quo. Only 34 members of the House and only five senators, far fewer than average, are retiring this year, and most seats change party hands when they are open. Incumbents also had a strong advantage in raising money this year.
No President's party in this century has made a net gain in the House midway through a second Presidential term, though the Democrats still stood a chance of doing that late last night. Mr. Clinton's travails led to predictions a month or so ago of at least modest gains by Republicans, but that view softened as Election Day neared.
In addition to the apparent backlash against the Republicans, another factor in the improved Democratic showing may have been a string of successes for Mr. Clinton. While Vice President Al Gore -- increasingly introduced to audiences as "the next President of the United States" -- barnstormed through more than a dozen states, Mr. Clinton, by most impartial accounts, bested the Republican leadership in the budget deal; played midwife to a Middle East land-for-peace agreement; worked within the G-7 group of industrialized nations to stabilize the global economy, and grabbed a few rays of the limelight when Senator John Glenn returned to space.
One result must have comforted Mr. Gore, whose political style is sometimes so wooden that he once compared himself to an oak plank. Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis of California, the Democratic victor in the gubernatorial race, is even less colorful than Mr. Gore, but that did not hurt him much in a race against a strongly ideological rival, Attorney General Dan Lungren, a Republican. Mr. Gore may face a right-wing Republican in the 2000 race.
Or he may face Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, a studiously pragmatic politician re-elected by a sizeable majority. Mr. Bush and his younger brother Jeb, projected as the victor in the Florida governor's race by exit polls, would be strongly placed in the struggle for the Republican Presidential nomination as governors of two of the four biggest states.
It looked, in fact, like a good election for moderates, with possible victories for Mr. Davis, the two Bushes, Gov. George V. Voinovich of Ohio in a Senate race and several other centrist Congressional candidates, compared with the avalanche of right-wing triumphs only four years ago.
This was particularly noticeable in gubernatorial races. As more power has moved from Washington to statehouses, voters have seemed eager to keep the blatant partisanship that has characterized Washington out of governments closer to home.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A GOOD NIGHT -- Speaker Newt Gingrich easily won re-election to his House seat in the Atlanta suburbs yesterday. Later he accepted the congratulations of his wife, Marianne, and hundreds of supporters in Atlanta. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; IMPEACHMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); ETHICS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



105 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
TROUBLED SYQUEST TECHNOLOGY SUSPENDS ITS OPERATIONS

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Syquest Technology Inc., a maker of computer disk drives, has suspended operations and may file for bankruptcy. On Monday, Syquest, which is based in Fremont, Calif., asked the Nasdaq stock market to halt trading in its stock, which was valued at just 34 cents, down from $4 a year ago. In the mid-1990's, Syquest invested in removable disk drives that let users transfer about 100 megabytes of information from one computer to another. But the company's products quickly fell behind the similar Zip drives marketed by the Iomega Corporation. The company dismissed 950 workers, or half its staff, in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SYQUEST TECHNOLOGY INC SYQT INC (95%); IOMEGA CORP (71%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYQUEST TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (90%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (90%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FLOPPY DRIVES (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



106 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE NATION -- CALIFORNIA;
Slowly but Steadily, Democrat Overcomes Rivals for Governorship

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis, a cautious career politician once dismissed as an uncharismatic underdog, gave Democrats the single biggest prize of this midterm election, defeating State Attorney General Dan Lungren tonight to become the 37th Governor of California, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
Mr. Davis's victory over Mr. Lungren, a Republican former Congressman from Long Beach, marked only the fourth time this century that a Democrat has won the governorship. It put the Democrats in control of all three branches of government in Sacramento -- and thus control of legislative and Congressional redistricting -- for the first time since Edmund G. Brown Jr. left office 16 years ago. 
 It was as Mr. Brown's chief of staff that Mr. Davis began his public career in 1975. He has, by his own account, spent the last two decades in a single-minded struggle to move a few feet down the hall of the State Capitol to the governor's chair, first serving four years in the Assembly from a district that included part of Beverly Hills, then four years as Comptroller before winning the lieutenant governor's seat four years ago.
But for years, the prevailing wisdom on Mr. Davis was that his first name summed up his personality. Despite years of tireless fund-raising and base-building by Mr. Davis, this election year began with most political professionals deeply doubting his chances of succeeding Gov. Pete Wilson, the two-term Republican who was barred by law from seeking a third term.
By the time Mr. Davis made his final campaign swing around the state, polls showed him with a double-digit lead over Mr. Lungren, and he took gleeful note of the doubters by dubbing the trip his "road-kill comeback tour."
Mr. Davis, an Army veteran of Vietnam who won a Bronze Star, pieced together a broad coalition of voters by methodically portraying Mr. Lungren as an extremist. He suggested that his opponent, who tried to run as a Reaganesque conservative, was outside the mainstream of a fundamentally moderate and increasingly Hispanic electorate on issues from abortion to the environment. Mr. Davis neutralized Mr. Lungren's crime-fighting credentials with his own longtime support of the death penalty.
Surveys of voters leaving the polls found that Mr. Davis, the first white male to win his party's nomination for governor since Mr. Brown, racked up majorities among almost all voter groups except white men, Republicans and Protestants. He took about 6 in 10 votes from those describing themselves as moderates.
Mr. Lungren won only about 20 percent of Hispanic votes, a figure well below what he had hoped for, and about half of what Mr. Wilson won in his first election in 1990, before his stands against affirmative action and illegal immigration alienated many minority voters.
Mervin Field, the dean of California poll-takers, said of Mr. Davis, "He's riding the tide of what I'd call contented apathy.
"He's not going to turn back welfare reform," Mr. Field said. "He's not going to try to do anything about overturning capital punishment. He's not going to do anything real about reinstating affirmative action. He's going with the tide."
Indeed, nearly 8 in 10 voters said the state's economic condition was good or excellent, and nearly half said it would stay that way in the coming year.
Last winter Mr. Davis, 55, was all but written off by much of the state's Democratic establishment, which considered him too phlegmatic to take on Mr. Lungren, the 52-year-old two-term Attorney General. In fact, Mr. Davis's very blandness seemed to work in his favor as he slipped past two self-financed millionaire rivals, Al Checchi and Representative Jane Harman, to decisively win the Democratic nomination in June.
Mr. Checchi, the former co-chairman of Northwest Airlines, and Ms. Harman, together spent more than $55 million, most of it on dueling television advertisements. Mr. Davis, who still managed to tie the old spending record of $9 million for a primary, lacked enough money to go on the air early and emerged unscathed at the end.
The big question about Mr. Lungren, a staunch opponent of abortion, was whether he would be seen as too conservative for swing voters in a state that is among the most supportive in the nation of abortion rights. In his first one-on-one debate with Mr. Davis this summer, Mr. Lungren emphasized how little say a governor has in the matter, and managed to rattle Mr. Davis by questioning the Democrat's past support for the death penalty.
Campaign advisers later said that Mr. Davis had not prepared enough for that first encounter, but he consistently dominated the campaign dialogue from then on. Public opinion polls showed that he was regarded as better than Mr. Lungren on the No. 1 issue of education, along with health care, environmental protection and abortion. Mr. Lungren held a significant advantage only on the issues of crime and taxes.
For his part, Mr. Lungren never seemed able to move much beyond his law-and-order background. Wary of opposition to his main educational proposals -- vouchers that would let parents of public school children send them to private and parochial schools instead -- he seldom mentioned them on the stump. That disappointed some campaign advisers, who believed the issue offered him a chance to contrast his own ideas with Mr. Davis's reluctance to take on the powerful teachers' union.
By the end of the campaign, according to the polls, Mr. Davis was drawing the support of fully half of voters who identified themselves as moderate Republicans, a vital part of Mr. Wilson's winning coalitions and the key to any victory in a state where partly loyalty is fairly evenly divided.
"I think Gray has always been underestimated, because he was in Jerry's shadow for so many years, and because they thought of the stereotype and didn't go much deeper than that," said Stephen Rivers, who managed Mr. Davis's first campaign for State Assembly in 1982.
"It was always, 'Oh, he's gray, and not very exciting.' All that superficial stuff missed how tenacious he is. He's an incredibly focused person. He takes his job both as an elected official and a politician very seriously. He's methodical and he's unrelenting."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); REDISTRICTING (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MEN (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (62%); VIETNAM WAR (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DAVIS, GRAY (LT GOV); LUNGREN, DANIEL E (ATTY GEN) DANIEL E LUNGREN (90%); JERRY BROWN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



107 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE MESSAGE -- THE PRESIDENT;
With Friends, Clinton Views Returns as Positive for Him

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
President Clinton watched the election returns roll in tonight much the same way that he had campaigned: from the White House, in the company of loyal friends and quietly.
Although he bitterly complained in the last two days about the political culture of Washington, the President remained sequestered with his wife, Hillary, here rather than venture into a country that was molding his political fate. 
 "None of us know what is going to happen," Mr. Clinton said this morning. When asked if this election, with impeachment hearings looming, was a referendum on whether he should stay in office, the President replied that it was "a referendum on all the hopes of the American people for the future and their assessment of the present condition."
Mr. Clinton monitored the returns for part of the evening in the office of John D. Podesta, his chief of staff, and telephoned several Democrats across the country as they won or lost their campaigns. Mrs. Clinton spent the evening watching the movie "Beloved" in the White House theater.
Like birthdays for others, elections have served as signposts in Mr. Clinton's life, and he seemed to be in a philosophical mood today. Answering a handful of questions before a lengthy meeting with his economic advisers, he seized on a reporter's observation that today marked his "sixth anniversary."
"They have been six very good years, very good years for our country," Mr. Clinton said. "And as I tell everybody around here, even the bad days are good."
Mr. Clinton spoke today with President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico about storm damage in Central America and with Prime Minister Tony Blair of England about Iraq.
But though his aides said the President seemed focused on such matters, they said he was quite nervous about the election. His political director, Craig Smith, regularly updated him through the day, and the President placed several calls to friends around the country, asking, in the words of one adviser, "Whaddaya hear, whaddaya know, whaddaya think?"
"He's desperately worried about the money," this adviser said, referring to a $110 million Republican Party advantage in fund-raising in this election. "All the late information was good, all the polling and the anecdotal stuff, but they've got so much more money, and he's just haunted by how much more money they have."
Early this year, some White House aides speculated that Democrats might actually gain seats in the midterm elections. But such talk faded as the Monica Lewinsky scandal intensified this summer. Now they are emphasizing that money, rather than any Presidential dalliance and lies, gave the Republicans a powerful advantage.
In addition to a last-minute push for help from donors, Mr. Clinton and other Democrats worked hard in recent days to encourage black voters -- among the most reliable Democrats -- to go to the polls. That strategy appeared to be paying off, White House aides said today.
Through a series of interviews in the last three days with news organizations oriented toward black and Hispanic Americans, Mr. Clinton repeatedly urged his listeners to vote, warning that Republicans would obstruct policies beneficial to minorities.
In a measure of how much his political position has recovered since his acknowledgment of an affair with Ms. Lewinsky, Mr. Clinton tried to turn the scandal to his advantage, suggesting that Republicans who were focused on it could not govern effectively. The President presented himself as the victim of relentless political enemies obsessed with scandal, in an interview broadcast Monday night on the cable network BET.
"There's a sort of a permanent political class in Washington that tends to thrive on such matters because they're not affected by what I came here to do," Mr. Clinton said. He reeled off policy goals, like raising the minimum wage, that he said did not matter to such people.
"There is a group in America where the acquisition of political power is more important than the purpose for which it's used," he said.
Mr. Clinton said some of his opponents never thought they would have another Democratic President in their lifetimes.
"The ones that are consumed with personal animosity toward me or toward Hillary," he said, "I think are just angry because they thought they and their crowd would always be able to drive up to the West Wing to work every day." He said that he was "not even angry at them anymore," adding, "I'm just sorry."
Mr. Clinton said the elections of 1992 and 1996 were the most important of his career. But this election, he said, is "very important to me because it will determine how much I can do for the American people in the next two years."
Mr. Clinton took part in few campaign-style rallies this year. His aides said they decided on a Rose Garden strategy well before Mr. Clinton was enveloped by scandal.
In 1994, they said, sending Mr. Clinton out on the stump seemed to hurt candidates' chances, and previous Presidents seemed to do little good for their parties' candidates in off-year elections.
Instead, Mr. Clinton raised money for Democrats and doggedly highlighted a select handful of issues. even as the furor over Ms. Lewinsky seemed to be drowning him out. Other Democrats picked up on those same themes -- shoring up Social Security, raising the minimum wage, modernizing classrooms -- with a unanimity not seen since 1992, White House aides said.
"Stop almost any Democrat on the street corner running for office, and they'll tell you why they're running," said Paul Begala, a senior aide to the President. "And they'll go right to these things we laid out at the beginning of the year."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ECONOMIC MEETING -- Before settling down for the election returns, President Clinton met yesterday with his advisers to talk about the economy. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (66%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (66%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); IMPEACHMENT (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (63%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



108 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS;
OTHER HIGHLIGHTS

 BODY:

CALIFORNIA
Democrats Retake the Biggest Prize
For the first time in 16 years, Democrats reclaimed the Governor's office as Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis defeated the State Attorney General, Dan Lungren. And Senator Barbara Boxer, a liberal Democrat, withstood a furious challenge from the Republican State Treasurer, Matt Fong. 
 As recently as last winter, Mr. Davis, 55, was all but written off by much of the state's Democratic establishment, which considered him too bland to have a chance against the Republicans. But Mr. Davis defeated two flashier Democrats in the primary, then rolled to victory in the general election after a heated and expensive campaign. Democrats now control all three branches of government in Sacramento.
Voters may have seen Mr. Lungren, a staunch opponent of abortion, as too conservative for swing voters in a state that is among the most supportive of abortion rights. Page B4.
 In Washington State, Senator Patty Murray, a liberal Democrat first elected, like Ms. Boxer, in the 1992 "Year of the Woman," defeated Representative Linda Smith.
 
CONNECTICUT
Rowland Wins Re-election in a Landslide
Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut, a 41-year-old Republican, rode an economic recovery to a landslide re-election, defeating Representative Barbara B. Kennelly in every region of the state, including her own Congressional district.
It was the first time since 1944 that Connecticut had re-elected a Republican Governor. The breadth of Mr. Rowland's victory was especially impressive because Connecticut had historically voted Democratic; Mrs. Kennelly's father was John Bailey, a fixture in Connecticut politics for decades as the state and national Democratic chairman.
At the same time, Connecticut voters easily re-elected Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a longtime friend and staunch defender of President Clinton, to a fourth term. Mr. Dodd defeated former Representative Gary Franks. Page B15.
 
THE BUSHES
Brothers Triumphant in Texas and Florida
The Republican Brothers Bush, of Texas and Florida, easily won their respective governorships.
George W. Bush, the incumbent in Texas, swamped his Democratic opponent, Garry Mauro, in a landslide that raised the expectations that Mr. Bush, 52, would charge on toward the White House in two years. Polls already show him as a front-runner.
Meanwhile, his younger brother, Jeb, 45, bounced back from a loss four years in ago in Florida and defeated Buddy MacKay, the Democratic Lieutenant Governor and a former Congressman.
The victories, coming six years after their father lost the White House to Bill Clinton, put the brothers at the helm of two of the four largest states. And they produce a historical curiosity: the Bushes will be the first brothers holding the top state posts simultaneously since Winthrop and Nelson Rockefeller in Arkansas and New York, respectively, in 1971. Page B1.
 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
A Political Outsider Will Succeed Barry
Anthony A. Williams, 47, a government technocrat and political novice who helped restore fiscal health to the nation's capital as its chief financial officer, was elected Mayor on the Democratic ticket in the overwhelmingly Democratic city. He defeated Carol A. Schwartz, a Republican City Council member who four years ago won 42 percent of the vote in her race against Mayor Marion S. Barry, who decided not to seek re-election. Mr. Williams, who has lived in the city for less than three years, defeated three City Council members in the primary.
 
WISCONSIN
Campaign Overhaul Keeps a Champion
Championing campaign finance overhaul to the bitter end, Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat, surged ahead in the closing hours to win re-election over his Republican challenger, Mark W. Neumann. Mr. Feingold sponsored legislation to restrict campaign financing, then restricted his own campaign donations. Outspent, he lost a lead of as much as 20 points and the race was considered a tossup.
 
THE HOUSE
Clinton Stalwarts, Pro and Anti, Win
Robert Wexler, the Florida Democrat who made a fervent plea on the House floor for an end to impeachment proceedings, was re-elected. And Dan Burton, the Indiana Republican who leads the House's investigation of Democratic campaign finances, won his ninth term.
 
OHIO
Glenn's Senate Seat Goes to the G.O.P.
As the retiring Democratic Senator John Glenn orbited the Earth, a Republican, as expected, captured his Senate seat. Ohio's popular Republican Governor, George V. Voinovich, a 62-year-old moderate who has spent more than half his life in Ohio politics, ran to succeed Mr. Glenn and handily defeated Mary O. Boyle.
 
NEW JERSEY
Victory for Land (And for Whitman)
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who staked much of her second-term reputation on a proposal to save a million acres of undeveloped land in New Jersey, was handed a big victory as voters approved a ballot measure to set aside two cents of the sales tax to buy $1 billion worth of open space.
 
MINNESOTA
Unlikeliest Winner: An Ex-Wrestler
 Jesse Ventura, a former professional wrestler who calls himself "The Body," scored an improbable upset by defeating two traditional politicians -- Hubert H. Humphrey 3d, the Democratic Attorney General, and Norm Coleman, the Republican Mayor of St. Paul -- to win the governorship as an independent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FEINGOLD; VOINOVICH; DAVIS; ROWLAND; G. W. BUSH

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US STATE GOVERNMENT (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ABORTION (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (89%); BARBARA BOXER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



109 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE NATION -- THE OVERVIEW;
DEMOCRATS HOLD OFF G.O.P. ADVANCE, WEAKENING IMPEACHMENT PROSPECTS; SCHUMER OUSTS D'AMATO; PATAKI WINS

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

 BODY:
Democrats roared back in the midterm elections yesterday, winning impressive victories in crucial Senate and gubernatorial races around the country despite months of dire predictions by Republicans and Democrats that President Clinton's scandal would drag down his party's candidates.
While Republicans maintained control of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Democrats' strong showing, in an off-year election when the party in the White House typically loses seats, made it far less likely that the Congress would move ahead aggressively with its impeachment inquiry of Mr. Clinton. 
 Republicans did not come close to the goals publicly stated by party leaders to win a magic 60 Senate seats, the number needed to cut off filibusters by Democrats blocking Republican legislation, or to substantially widen the party's narrow 11-seat edge in the House.
As House races were still being tallied last night, with four incumbent Republicans losing, Representative Martin Frost of Texas, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, predicted that his party would defy expectations and even pick up "a couple of seats -- at least." No President's party in this century has made a net gain in House seats midway through a second Presidential term.
Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republicans had hoped to transform the campaign into a public outcry for Mr. Clinton's impeachment. But as the returns came, many party leaders appeared to be backing off from the impeachment inquiry.
Mr. Gingrich sought last night to change the subject from impeachment, insisting, "Republicans have never been particularly fixated on the issue of impeachment." And he play down the disappointing performance of many Republicans by focusing on the long view. "This will be the first time in 70 years that the Republicans have kept control of the House for a third term," he said repeatedly.
Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, general chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said the voters' message about impeachment could not be clearer: "Wrap this up. Get it off the table."
In the most coveted single prize of the day, Gray Davis, the Lieutenant Governor of California, defeated Dan Lungren, the Republican Attorney General, to become the first Democrat elected governor of the state in 16 years.
But since Mr. Davis had outpaced Mr. Lungren in the polls for months, Democrats were celebrating surprising triumphs in races that had been viewed as excruciatingly close. Many Democrats were relieved that Senator Barbara Boxer of California had fought off a spirited challenge from the state Treasurer, Matt Fong, a Republican.
Perhaps the biggest upset of the day was the ouster of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican, by Representative Charles E. Schumer. In another major upset, John Edwards, a Democratic trial lawyer, defeated Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina. And Senator Russell D. Feingold, a leading advocate of campaign finance reform who significantly limited his spending, defeated Representative Mark W. Neumann.
The election was also marked by a resurgence of Democrats in the Deep South, spurred in part by better-than-expected turnout among black voters. In South Carolina, Jim Hodges, a former Democratic state representative, ousted Gov. David Beasley, a rising star in his party who was chairman of the Republican Governors Association. That state's Democratic Senator, Ernest F. Hollings, turned back a vigorous challenge from Representative Bob Inglis, a Republican.
In Alabama, Lieut. Gov. Don Siegelman toppled Gov. Fob James Jr. And in a race to replace Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia, a Democrat, Roy Barnes, a Democratic state legislator, defeated Guy Millner, a Republican businessman.
And in Maryland, Gov. Parris N. Glendening, a Democrat, fought off a tough challenge in a rematch with Ellen Sauerbrey. The Maryland contest was so competitive that Mr. Clinton, in his last political trip of the campaign, traveled to Baltimore on Sunday to implore Democrats to vote.
Still, the Republicans did pile up some important wins yesterday. In Illinois, Peter Fitzgerald, a wealthy state Senator, ousted Senator Carol Moseley-Braun, a Democrat who was catapulted to Washington in 1992, "the year of the woman."
Republicans also maintained their domination of governorships around the country. Jeb Bush, the younger son of former President George Bush, won the Florida governorship in his second try for the office, building something of a political dynasty.
His brother, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, was re-elected by a wide margin, solidifying his position as the early favorite among many in his party for the Republican Presidential nomination in 2000. It was the first time in 24 years that a governor of either party had been re-elected to a consecutive term in Texas.
Other incumbent Republicans who were re-elected governors of major states -- some of whom also have Presidential ambitions -- were George E. Pataki of New York, Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and John Engler of Michigan.
Voters were hard-pressed to describe an overarching issue on which they based their vote. In interviews as they left their polling stations, many voters cited many issues that moved them to vote.
It was a marked contrast to four years ago, when voters rebelled against incumbents and handed control of the House to Republicans for the first time in 40 years. Two years ago, Mr. Clinton was re-elected and some voters said they were disturbed by what they viewed as the extremism of Mr. Gingrich and the new Republican majority.
Many races were so close that they were not decided until well past midnight. While Mr. Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky was a subtext for the entire election season, voters leaving the polls said they were not particularly driven by the scandal one way or another. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, insisted last night that impeachment had never ignited as an issue. "If it was," he said, "we should be winning a lot more seats right now." Mr. Lott added: "There wasn't really a national theme. It depended on issues at the local level, personalities, and what kind of campaign they ran."
In other returns, former Gov. Evan Bayh recaptured a Senate seat from Indiana that had been held by Republicans since his father, Birch Bayh, was defeated for re-election in 1980. But Republicans also grabbed a Democratic seat in Ohio. Gov. George V. Voinovich was elected to succeed Senator John Glenn, who was orbiting Earth this week aboard the shuttle Discovery.
Democratic Senators who were re-elected included Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland; Bob Graham of Florida; Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont; Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut; John B. Breaux of Louisiana, and Byron L. Dorgan of South Dakota. Republicans who were re-elected included the party's whip, Don Nickles of Oklahoma; Judd Gregg of New Hampshire; Sam Brownback of Kansas; Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania; Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado; Christopher S. Bond of Missouri, and John McCain of Arizona. Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama was re-elected in his first race since he switched to the Republican party in 1994.
Other governors who were elected to new terms included these Democrats: Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and Howard Dean of Vermont. Among Republican governors, Frank Keating romped to victory in Oklahoma, as did John G. Rowland in Connecticut, Bill Graves in Kansas, Lincoln Almond of Rhode Island and Don Sundquist in Tennessee. Mike Huckabee won his first full term in Arkansas. He had taken office when his predecessor resigned after a Whitewater conviction. In Maine, Angus King, an Independent, also won re-election.
Officials had been concerned about spotty turnout in both parties. In the end, fewer than 4 in 10 of adults of voting age population went to the polls.
But in some heavily black precincts turnout among black voters, who are reliably Democratic, was reported as impressive. In Representative Elijah Cummings's largely urban Baltimore district, turnout among black voters was heavier than in past races.
"Everywhere I went today, folks were lined up," said Mr. Cummings, a two-term Democrat. In one inner-city precinct, 187 people had voted by noon, nearly four times the turnout at midday at the same precinct in 1994, Mr. Cummings said.
Mr. Cummings attributed the surge to Mr. Clinton's appeal in the district on Sunday. "This was the first time African Americans had the opportunity to do something in support of the President," Mr. Cummings said. "People are fired up."
Voters were largely approving of Mr. Clinton, confident about the economy, resentful of the impending impeachment hearings and disappointed in Congress's performance, according to a survey of voters leaving polling places around the country. Voters said the issues that mattered to them most were education, taxes, Social Security, jobs and ethical and moral standards, rather than any one overriding concern.
While the Lewinsky affair loomed over the entire campaign season, 6 in 10 voters surveyed said they did not think the President should be impeached, did not approve of the way Congress has handled the matter, and did not even want the House to hold impeachment hearings. Voters were divided on whether, as a lesser punishment, Congress should censure Mr. Clinton.
Throughout the investigation into the President's relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, Mr. Clinton has been buoyed by a high job approval rating, and voters yesterday said they liked the way he was running the country. More than half said they approved of the job he was doing, even though most had a negative view of his personal conduct.
Despite a last-minute television blitz by the Republican Party to remind Americans of Mr. Clinton's conduct during the inquiry, 6 in 10 voters surveyed said they disapproved of the way Republicans in Congress had handled the matter.
The interviews with voters also help explain why Mr. Clinton and other prominent Democrats invoked Mr. Gingrich in their drives to move people to the polls. More than half the voters said they did not have a favorable view of Mr. Gingrich; those people voted largely for the Democratic House candidate in their districts.
In a sharp contrast to the midterm elections four years ago, voters yesterday said overwhelmingly that the nation's economy was strong and they fully expected it to stay that way. People also registered contentment with their own lives. Most voters said their family's finances had either improved in the last two years, or at least not deteriorated.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CELEBRATING IN WISCONSIN -- Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Democrat, his wife, Mary, left, and their daughter Ellen, far left, clapped as they watched the election returns last night in a hotel room in Middleton, Wis. (Associated Press)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; CALIFORNIA; ILLINOIS; WISCONSIN; TEXAS; SOUTHERN STATES (US); NORTH CAROLINA; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US); IMPEACHMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); BLACKS; ETHICS; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS; FORECASTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (91%); FILIBUSTER (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); ETHICS (72%); LAWYERS (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, JEB; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); EDWARDS, JOHN; FAIRCLOTH, LAUCH (SEN); MOSELEY-BRAUN, CAROL (SEN); FEINGOLD, RUSSELL (SEN); NEUMANN, MARK W (REPR); FITZGERALD, PETER (STATE SEN); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (79%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); BARBARA BOXER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



110 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

 BODY:
It has been 16 years since the nation's most populous state had a Democratic governor. The last one was Edmund G. Brown Jr. And the next will be Mr. Brown's former chief of staff in Sacramento, Gray Davis.
Mr. Davis, now the state's lieutenant governor, is widely mocked as the dullest politician in the state Democratic Party. But after a sure-footed campaign that highlighted his political moderation, he took an early lead over the staunchly conservative Republican candidate, Attorney General Dan Lungren. 
 Mr. Davis's victory is of monumental importance to the Democrats as they prepare for Congressional redistricting and a Presidential election two years from now.
As the race drew to a close, Democrats were not so confident of the outcome of the race for the Senate. But exit polls showed that the incumbent Democrat, Barbara Boxer, had managed to defeat the Republican State Treasurer, Matt Fong. Her victory was apparently the result in part of a last-minute flurry of television advertisements by Ms. Boxer that painted Mr. Fong as an extremist.
Ms. Boxer built up a slight lead in the final days of the campaign, even though polls showed that many voters perceived her as too liberal and out of touch with the state's priorities.
The tobacco industry was closely watching the vote on a ballot initiative that would add 50 cents in taxes to the price of a pack of cigarettes to pay for children's health programs. Cigarette companies spent millions of dollars to defeat the measure.
 
SENATE
13% reporting
Boxer 620,689 47%
Fong 661,490 50%
 
GOVERNOR
7% reporting
Davis 556,928 53%
Lungren 469,247 44%

GRAPHIC: Chart: "California Voters"
In the race for a U.S. Senate seat, the issue that mattered most to those who voted for:
 
Barbara Boxer, Democrat
24% Education
16% Abortion
 
Matt Fong, Republican
18% Taxes
15% Abortion
 
During the next year, do you think California's economy will:
 
Get worse: 18%
Stay about the same: 48%
Get better: 29%
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,663 California voters; those with no responses are not shown.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); BALLOTS (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (70%); REFERENDUMS (69%); REDISTRICTING (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (90%); BARBARA BOXER (90%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



111 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK STATE -- THE DEFEAT;
D'Amato Fails, Finally, To Confound Rivals

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
For most of his 18 years in Washington, Alfonse M. D'Amato has been the Senator who never quite fit in. He was a conservative from a state of moderates and liberals, a machine-bred politician in an institution sprinkled heavily with Ivy League-trained debaters, a colorful showman whose predecessors and colleagues, from Herbert H. Lehman to Daniel Patrick Moynihan, were more muted and highbrow.
But until yesterday, Mr. D'Amato, a Republican, had confounded his enemies time and again with sheer wiliness, energy and gall. Once the outsider, he had become the consummate Senate inside player. Dogged by ethics investigations, he had turned inquisitor into President Clinton's Whitewater dealings. Dismissed by his critics as a clown, he had learned to champion the hopes and resentments of suburban and upstate voters who had carried him to victory three times before. 
 Yesterday, those voters failed to answer his call one last time, heeding instead the message of his Democratic challenger, Representative Charles E. Schumer, that Mr. D'Amato could not be trusted, had been in office for too long and had embarrassed himself too many times.
At Republican headquarters at the Hilton Hotel and Towers in Manhattan last night, news of Mr. D'Amato's loss dampened the victory celebrations for Gov. George E. Pataki. Even late in the evening, some party loyalists insisted that Mr. D'Amato might still pull it off, as he did in 1992, while others fretted that upstate New York would be hurt by the Schumer victory.
Trying to silence boos at the mention of Mr. Schumer's name last night, Mr. D'Amato told supporters in his concession speech: "He is our Senator and we want him to be as effective as he can for all the people of this great state. Now remember that, that is the key -- doing the business of the people."
Surveys of voters leaving their polling places show that Mr. D'Amato lost support almost across the board from 1992, but particularly among Jewish voters, despite his heavy campaigning in Jewish neighborhoods in the campaign's final weeks. It also appeared that Mr. Schumer did a better job of holding on to Democratic voters than Robert Abrams did in 1992, when a quarter of Democrats voted for Mr. D'Amato.
Mr. D'Amato, 61, lost in large part, political analysts said, because Mr. Schumer was the toughest candidate he had ever faced. Mr. Schumer, a nine-term Democrat from Brooklyn, did not match Mr. D'Amato in spending -- he had spent $14 million on the campaign by mid-October while Mr. D'Amato had spent $20 million -- but he was much better financed than Mr. Abrams was in 1992. He had also deftly positioned himself as a moderate who could appeal to independent voters and centrists from both parties and tirelessly countered each of Mr. D'Amato's attacks.
But clearly, part of Mr. D'Amato's problem was Mr. D'Amato. Years of investigations into his ethics and his numerous high-profile gaffes, like using a Yiddish vulgarism to describe Mr. Schumer and then denying it, had made him dangerously unpopular with a large segment of voters. Several political analysts also suggested that bringing together Holocaust survivors to criticize his rival's record on Jewish issues hurt the Senator considerably more than Mr. Schumer, who is Jewish.
Even Mr. D'Amato's advisers were so convinced about the negativeness of his image that they kept him from speaking in his own television commercials and relied heavily on more popular surrogates, like Gov. George E. Pataki, to carry his campaign message.
But the cartoonish image of Mr. D'Amato that voters saw during this campaign did not do complete justice to his personality and style. New York's junior senator is a man often defined by paradoxes. His bitterest rivals reviled his hardball campaign tactics, then carefully studied and mimicked them. Democrats called him sleazy, yet found that he was true to his word when they did business with him. He could be profane and loutish in public, but gentle, even tender, in private. He was brutally vindictive toward his enemies, but doggedly loyal to friends.
Though a fundamentally conservative politician who staunchly opposed abortion and gun control and consistently advocated tax cuts and harsh criminal penalties, Mr. D'Amato has always found ways to moderate his image. No ideologue, he was guided by a pragmatic philosophy born of the place that nurtured his politics, Nassau County.
The grandchild of Italian immigrants, Mr. D'Amato was born in Brooklyn but brought up in Island Park, in the heart of middle-class Long Island. After he helped put himself through Syracuse University and Law School by working as a janitor, no Manhattan law firm would hire him. He returned home, getting a job as a lawyer for Nassau County government. Those experiences forever shaped his political views.
From his early years in government on, he strove to articulate the fears of middle-class homeowners infuriated by property taxes and worried about losing economic ground and the anger of small business owners beleaguered by regulations. He echoed the resentments of working-class parents toward the "liberal elites" who seemed to control their schools, their newspapers, their banks and government offices.
Perhaps better than anyone in the Senate, Mr. D'Amato understood that to these voters, Congress was a distant and abstract place. So he constantly searched for people -- breast cancer patients denied insurance benefits, Holocaust survivors trying to reclaim stolen assets -- whose gut-wrenching cases he could champion.
Win or lose, he invoked their stories as evidence that he was a fighter for regular citizens.
A man whose first job came through the patronage system, he ran his Senate office like a Nassau County ward heeler, returning calls from almost any elected official, honoring the requests of big-city mayors and small-town supervisors alike when they asked for help -- and expecting their support in return.
"I hate him," said Frances Werner, the former chairwoman of the Queens Republican committee whom Mr. D'Amato helped to oust. "But when he says he'll do something, he comes through."
At times, Mr. D'Amato tried to break out from his image as "Senator Pothole," embracing larger issues, such as banking law or Israeli policy. But history may remember him best for his missteps, from croaking "Old MacDonald had some pork" during a 1994 Senate debate to using broken English to mock Lance Ito, the judge in O. J. Simpson's criminal trial, during a 1995 radio interview.
What also defined Mr. D'Amato for many voters was his brass-knuckles political style. When he ran for the Senate for the first time in 1980, he did not shy away from reminding voters that the four-term Republican incumbent, Senator Jacob K. Javits, was 76 years old and in failing health. In each election since then, he has lambasted his opponents as liberals, as well as "wimp" in the case of Mr. Abrams in 1992, and the Yiddish insult in the case of Mr. Schumer this year.
Democrats, and many Republicans, argued that many of the people he helped over 18 years were campaign contributors, particularly financial services companies regulated by the Senate Banking Committee -- of which he is the chairman. In 1991, the Senate Ethics Committee faulted him for allowing his brother, Armand, to use his Senate office and stationery to help a client.
But the Democrats also privately conceded that they admired the ways he fudged or fine-tuned his political positions to pick off Democratic voters while holding down his conservative base. He embraced some centrist positions, but on one issue, his opposition to abortion, he remained firm, though that was out of step with the thinking of most New Yorkers.
Fighting for breast cancer research money won over many women angry with his opposition to abortion. Pushing to reduce automated teller machine fees helped counter assertions that he was too friendly to big banks. Advocating civil rights for homosexuals balanced accusations that he was an extreme right-winger.
Perhaps the oddest paradox of his long career was that this year, as he sat atop one of the most potent political organizations in the country, Mr. D'Amato had to depend on high-profile surrogates, like Mr. Pataki, to woo back voters who had grown weary of him. In a testament to his success in delivering for New York City over the years, Mr. D'Amato even managed to bring Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and former Mayor Edward I. Koch -- despite their long history of bickering -- to campaign together for him.
On Monday, as he stumped with Mr. D'Amato in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, Mr. Koch was asked if this year's race was as close as in 1992, when Mr. D'Amato won by a single percentage point. "Closer," replied Mr. Koch, a look of worry crossing his face.
But Mr. D'Amato, pugnacious to the end, cut Mr. Koch off. "We're in better shape than we were in '92," he said, then turned away.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SWITCHING ROLES -- Conceding to Charles E. Schumer, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato got a hug from his former protege, Gov. George E. Pataki, right, who had little problem winning re-election yesterday. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B11); A PLEA REJECTED -- Voters yesterday rebuffed Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato's bid for a fourth term. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Losing the Race By Missing City Voters"
Although Charles E. Schumer lost narrowly to Alfonse D'Amato in upstate counties, his strong showing in New York City gave him the Victory. Chart shows the number of votes for Schumer and D'Amato through out certain counties in New York state. (pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; ETHICS; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ETHICS (70%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) CHARLES SCHUMER (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



112 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE NATION -- GOVERNORS;
George W. Bush Is Re-elected in Texas; His Brother Jeb Is Victorious in Florida

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush of Texas was re-elected yesterday, and his brother Jeb was elected governor of Florida, meaning that brothers will be serving simultaneously as governor for only the second time.
In the governor's race with the highest stakes, Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, defeated State Attorney General Dan Lungren to win in California, the most-populous state. But Republicans will still be governor of the next eight most populous states. 
 In the South, Democrats reversed a decades-long trend toward Republican control of governorships, ousting Republican Governors in South Carolina and Alabama and retaining a hotly contested seat in Georgia.
Jeb Bush's victory in Florida over Lieut. Gov. Kenneth H. MacKay Jr. was a gain for Republicans in the region. Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, is retiring. In Texas, George W. Bush won easily over Gary Mauro, the state Land Commissioner, and this could pave the way for a run for the Presidency in 2000.
Altogether, 36 governorships were at stake, 24 now held by Republicans, 11 by Democrats and 1 by an independent, Angus King of Maine, who was handily re-elected. Nationwide, going into the election, 32 Governors were Republicans and 17 were Democrats. This is the largest spread Republicans have enjoyed in the state capitals since World War II.
This year's elections are especially important because the Governors elected last night will preside over the redistricting of state legislatures and Congressional seats that will occur after the 2000 Census.
In South Carolina, one of the most conservative and normally most Republican states in the country, Jim Hodges, a former state legislator, defeated the Republican Governor, David Beasley. In Alabama, Lieut. Gov. Don Siegelman beat Gov. Fob James. In both cases, gambling was an issue. Mr. Hodges favored the legalization of video poker in South Carolina, and Mr. Siegelman advocated a lottery in Alabama to raise money for education.
In Georgia, Roy Barnes, a state Representative, held the seat being vacated by the Democratic Governor, Zell Miller. Mr. Barnes defeated Guy W. Millner, a Republican businessman who was making his second straight run for the office.
Democrats also won a close race in Maryland, where Gov. Parris N. Glendening was re-elected.
Republican Governors were re-elected in New York, Connecticut, Arkansas, Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
Democrats were re-elected in New Hampshire and Vermont.
In the Midwest, seats changed hands in Iowa and Nebraska, where Governors are retiring. In Iowa, State Senator Tom Vilsack, a Democrat, was elected to replace the Republican Governor, Terry E. Branstad. In Nebraska, Mayor Mike Johanns of Lincoln, a Republican, was elected to replace Gov. Ben Nelson, a Democrat.
Republicans were elected in Ohio, Idaho and New Mexico. The new Governor of Ohio is Bob Taft, the son and grandson of Senators. In Idaho, Senator Dirk Kempthorne was elected Governor.
The race was tight in Minnesota, where the Democratic Attorney General, Hubert H. Humphrey 3d, the son of the former Vice President, was in a three-way contest with Mayor Norm Coleman of St. Paul, a Republican, and Jesse Ventura, a former professional wrestler, who ran as an independent. Another close race was in Massachusetts, where Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci, a Republican, was challenged by Attorney General Scott Harshbarger.
The only time that brothers have been governors at the same time, the National Governors' Association said, was from 1967 to 1971, when Nelson A. Rockefeller was Governor of New York and his brother Winthrop was Governor of Arkansas.
Four years ago, when George W. Bush was first elected, Jeb Bush lost to Governor Chiles. In Miami last night, to the wild cheering of hundreds of supporters in a hotel ballroom, former President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, both beaming with pride, came on stage to introduce their son.
"May I introduce to you the next governor of Florida, Jeb Bush," was all the former President said. His son thanked, in order, God, his family, his supporters and "the best parents in the world."
The Clinton years have been political disasters for Democrats in the state capitals.
When Mr. Clinton took office in January 1993, Democrats held the governorships of 30 states. Republicans held 18, and 2 Governors were independents. But in 1993, Democratic Governors were ousted in New Jersey and Virginia.
Eleven more governorships were taken over in the 1994 Republican sweep. And Republicans picked up three more in 1996, including the governorship of Arkansas, where Jim Guy Tucker, a Democrat, resigned after he was indicted and was replaced by a Republican.
As a consequence, going into this year's election, Republicans were governors of eight of the nine most populous states in the country, all but Florida.
The turnabout has been especially striking in the Rocky Mountains and the Great Plains. Fifteen years ago, only 2 states in this 14-state region, North and South Dakota, had Republican Governors. Now, 11 of the Governors in the region are Republicans.
Of the 36 governors' races on the ballot yesterday, 25 involved incumbents: 17 Republicans, 7 Democrats and Governor King of Maine. Of the 11 Governors who are retiring, mostly because their states have two-term limits, 6 are Republicans and 5 are Democrats.
On a national level, the main effect of yesterday's elections for governor may be felt in the states that are likely to gain and lose Congressional seats as a result of the 2000 Census. The gainers are expected to include California, Arizona, Georgia, Texas, Colorado and Florida. States that may lose seats include Connecticut, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma and Wisconsin.
The issues in this year's races for governor were mostly similar to those in Congressional contests. Republicans advocated lower taxes and smaller government. Democrats stressed the need for better health and education programs.
But local issues also cropped up. In South Carolina, the candidates battled over whether to legalize gambling in the form of video poker. In Alabama, there was a fight over whether to create a state lottery to raise money for education.
In Hawaii, the main issue was a statewide recession, a result largely of the sagging economies in Japan and elsewhere in Asia. In Maryland, by contrast, the economy is strong, and the campaign debate turned to other matters, like the state's financing of two new football stadiums.
In Minnesota, the candidates for governor scrapped over the legal fees due lawyers who represented the state in the suit it settled with the major tobacco companies. Laws against hate crimes and concealed weapons have been big issues in the New Mexico race.

GRAPHIC: Photo: VICTOR'S VOTE -- Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis and his wife, Sharon, voted yesterday in Los Angeles. He won the California governor's race. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); REDISTRICTING (74%); TRENDS (70%); CENSUS (67%); POKER (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%); WORLD WAR II (51%); EDUCATION FUNDING (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ANGUS KING (79%); BEN NELSON (59%); MIKE JOHANNS (59%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (59%); TERRY BRANSTAD (59%); TOM VILSACK (59%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



113 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE NATION -- THE HOUSE;
Embattled Democrats Pull Through as Republicans Appear to Fall Short of Predictions

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Republicans in the House seemed to be falling short last night of the gains they had predicted, as one embattled Democrat after another won re-election in the face of the yearlong scandal over President Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky.
The first returns from battleground states in the South and the Midwest suggested that the House election would amount to a virtual endorsement of the status quo, a result that would leave Republicans with little mandate to push ahead with the impeachment of Mr. Clinton. 
 While Republicans were likely to retain control of the House, Democrats considered it a victory that they were able to stave off sharp losses and contain the Republican majority. Since World War II, the average loss for the President's party in midterm elections has been 27 House seats.
"If we break even or even pick up a seat, it would be a historic reversal of what usually happens," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader.
Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the chief Republican strategist who just two weeks ago held out the possibility that House Republicans could gain as many as 40 seats, told supporters in suburban Atlanta that his party would continue to control the House. "This will be the first time in 70 years that Republicans will have kept control of the House for a third time," he said.
By midevening, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said cautiously, "It's too early to be disappointed," and added, "We knew all these races were going to be close."
Most House incumbents in both parties easily coasted to another term in a year marked by voter content with the economy and no overriding national issues.
With so few members of Congress facing strong challenges, control of the House came down to several dozen fiercely fought contests scattered across the country. By midevening, not one incumbent had lost.
More than any overriding national theme, local issues and personalities and campaign financing helped decide many races. Only a few House candidates raised the possibility of the President's impeachment or his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky as a driving issue, although Republicans in the last few days of the campaign ran television advertisements invoking the scandal in several conservative districts.
Most of the turnover in the House was expected in the 34 seats left open by retirements.
In Kentucky, the two parties swapped control of two House seats that became vacant when Representatives Jim Bunning, a Republican, and Scotty Baesler, a Democrat, faced each other in a race for the Senate seat being vacated by Wendell H. Ford, a Democrat who is retiring. Former State Representative Ernie Fletcher, a Republican, picked up Mr. Baesler's seat while Ken Lucas, a Democrat, proved conservative enough to win Mr. Bunning's district.
Representative Anne Northup, a freshman close to the House Republican leadership, won re-election. Her opponent, Chris Gorman, had been one of the handful of Democrats who ran advertisements seeking to wield the Republicans' handling of the impeachment inquiry against his opponent.
In Indiana, Representative Julia Carson, a Democratic freshman who had been considered endangered, defeated her Republican challenger, Gary Hofmeiser, despite a slow campaign start because of health problems.
In North Carolina, three Democratic Representatives that the Republicans had hoped to topple held on to their seats -- Melvin Watt, David E. Price and Bob Etheridge. But Robin Hayes, a Republican, defeated Mike Taylor, a Democrat, for the open seat of Representative W. G. (Bill) Hefner, a Democrat who is retiring.
Other Democrats that Republicans had considered vulnerable also prevailed, among them Representative Corrine Brown of Florida, John F. Tierney of Massachusetts, John Spratt of South Carolina, Maurice Hinchey of New York and Frank Pallone of New Jersey.
The results promise another two years of policy stalemate, with Republicans, who have a fragile 11-seat majority, lacking the seats to pursue a new conservative agenda.
The two parties opened the year expecting a relatively placid midterm election with voters soothed by the good economy.
Leery of shaking the mood of content, House Republicans ran largely on their past accomplishments. They put forward no new agenda like the Contract With America, which propelled them into the majority in 1994 on a far-reaching conservative domestic policy agenda.
The Democrats, by contrast, hoped to make inroads with an agenda of issues blocked by the Republicans, from anti-tobacco legislation to regulation of health maintenance organizations, money for school construction and overhaul of the campaign finance system. But they found that they were all but drowned out by Washington's preoccupation with Mr. Clinton's troubles.
Ever since the President told the nation in August, after months of denials, that he had had an "inappropriate relationship" with Ms. Lewinsky, Democrats feared that they would suffer a rout, with Clinton-haters inspired to vote and disillusioned Democrats staying home.
But the political mood seemed to shift again after the Republican-controlled House released reams of salacious testimony that the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr had gathered about Mr. Clinton's relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, and voted to open a formal impeachment inquiry into the President. Detecting signs of a backlash against the Republicans, many political analysts said they had overplayed their hand.
Later this month the House Judiciary Committee moves to center stage once again as it opens its formal impeachment inquiry into Mr. Clinton. But the standoff in last night's elections could revive talk of censure and leave Republicans searching for a quick way to bring the inquiry to an end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (61%); WORLD WAR II (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (92%); JIM BUNNING (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); ERNIE FLETCHER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



114 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- NORTHEAST;
MASSACHUSETTS

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

 BODY:
The close fight for governor, between Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci, a Republican, and Attorney General Scott Harshbarger, a Democrat, grew so contentious that commentators described their final debate as a "brawl."
Mr. Cellucci, a fiscal conservative who supports abortion rights, was seeking his first full term. He was Lieutenant Governor when he succeeded Gov. William Weld, who resigned last year. 
 Although Democrats hold a 3-to-1 edge in voter registration, a strong economy helped Mr. Cellucci against Mr. Harshbarger, who is known for a tough approach to the tobacco companies and opposition to casino gambling.
Mr. Cellucci ran on a record of tax cuts and budget surpluses. Mr. Harshbarger, calling education his top priority, had a less-than-united party behind him.
In the Sixth Congressional District, the Democratic incumbent, John F. Tierney, and Peter G. Torkildsen, a Republican, went head-to-head for the third time. Mr. Tierney wrested the seat from the moderate Republican in 1996, after narrowly losing two years earlier. Mr. Tierney held a comfortable lead in polls this time around.
Voters were also to decide whether to provide public financing of political campaigns. A late poll found strong support.
 
GOVERNOR
83% reporting
Harshbarger 760,256 48%
Cellucci 794,622 50%

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Massachusetts Voters"
In the race for Governor, the issue that mattered most to those who voted for:
 
Scott Harshbarger, Democrat
31% Education
21% Ethical and moral standards
 
Paul Cellucci, Republican
27% The economy and jobs
22% Ethical and moral standards
 
During the next year, do you think Massachusetts's economy will:
Get worse: 18%
Get better: 27%
Stay about the same: 55%
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,652 Massachusetts voters; those with no responses are not shown.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); ABORTION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (55%); GAMING (54%); CASINOS (54%); 

PERSON: CELLUCCI, ARGEO PAUL (ACTING GOV); HARSHBARGER, SCOTT (ATTY GEN); TIERNEY, JOHN F (REPR); TORKILDSEN, PETER G JOHN F TIERNEY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



115 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK STATE -- THE GOVERNOR;
Pataki Wins Election to a Second Term by a Hefty Margin

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
George Elmer Pataki swept to a second term as Governor of New York yesterday, defeating his weak and splintered opposition by one of the largest margins in history, a victory so resounding that it is certain to raise his national profile.
Mr. Pataki's triumph capped a remarkable transformation from a little-known State Senator waging an uphill fight for governor in 1994, to a Governor who has shifted the state markedly rightward on crime, welfare and taxes, and has made himself its most popular political figure. Four years ago, he narrowly defeated Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, with considerable help from Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. This year, it was the Senator who, in an ultimately unsuccessful bid for a fourth term, turned to Mr. Pataki for help, and the Governor spent more energy in the final weeks stumping for his onetime patron than for himself. 
 With 96 percent of the voting precincts reporting, Mr.Pataki, a Republican who was also the candidate of the Conservative Party, had 54 percent of the vote, to 33 percent for his Democratic challenger, Peter F. Vallone, the New York City Council Speaker, who was also nominated by the newly founded Working Families Party.
B. Thomas Golisano, the Independence Party candidate making his second run for the office, was a distant third, with 8 percent, and Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, the Liberal Party nominee, trailed with 2 percent.
The 24-year-old split in New York's State Legislature appeared to hold fast, with Republicans easily retaining control of the State Senate, and Democrats keeping a strong hold on the Assembly.
The polls indicated that the Liberal Party had survived the near-death experience of nominating Ms. McCaughey Ross, then watching her husband, the financier Wilbur L. Ross, withdraw much of her financial backing. She appeared to have topped the 50,000 votes a party needs in a gubernatorial election to maintain an automatic place on New York ballots for the next four years.
Despite Mr. Pataki's triumph, the Republican ticket's Election Night crowd was remarkably subdued, mindful of Mr. D'Amato's defeat. The Governor appeared at 9:50 P.M., less than an hour after the polls closed, to declare victory before a crowd of supporters at the New York Hilton Hotel on the Avenue of the Americas.
"We said we were going to change this state and put in place new policies that would free the spirit of the people of New York from an oppressive government," he said. "Well, it's four years later, and let me tell you something, this is a better state than it was four years ago. We have kept our word in making this a safer state, making this a healthier state, making this a state with more environmental opportunities for our children and the children of the next generation."
Mr. Vallone gave his concession speech at 9:30 P.M., just half an hour after the polls closed, before a surprisingly upbeat group of supporters at the New York Marriott East Side hotel.
"This is really not cause for sorrow or complaint," Mr. Vallone said, flanked by his family, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and former Mayor David N. Dinkins. "We knew from the start that this was going to be an uphill race. The odds were long. The campaign dollars were always a little short. But there was a need to be filled, an obligation to be met."
The campaign did not present much of a test for Mr. Pataki, who campaigned sparingly, ignored his opponents and refused to debate them. And in the end, he won a smaller percentage of the vote than did Mr. D'Amato's opponent, Representative Charles E. Schumer.
But the defeat of Mr. D'Amato leaves his former protege, the Governor, as the undisputed leader of the State Republican Party and clearly the most powerful figure in state politics.
In the last month, as polls showed him running away with this race, Mr. Pataki and his aides grew so elated that they began to talk openly about the prospect of his running for national office in 2000. Like the last Republican elected New York's Governor, Nelson A. Rockefeller, Mr. Pataki might be favored by moderate Republicans, but is widely considered a dark horse, especially with the larger body of conservative Republican voters.
In New York this year, as in much of the country, the election season lacked defining issues or ideological chasms. There was none of the economic unrest that animates some contests, and local fights were overshadowed by President Clinton's troubles, though they did not cut clearly one way or another with voters. In such an atmosphere, voters were content mostly to return incumbents to office, even if it meant ignoring party lines and splitting their tickets.
The Governor was headed for the third-largest winning margin in a gubernatorial race in state history, in both percentage terms and in raw votes, and the largest ever by a Republican. The biggest margins were set by Mr. Cuomo in 1986 and 1990; he won each time by 32 percent, and 1.4 million and 1.3 million votes, respectively.
The Governor came nowhere near outpolling Mr. Vallone in the city, as some of his advisers had hoped, but the breadth of his victory was still remarkable. Mr. Pataki led Mr. Vallone two to one in the downstate suburbs, and more than three to one upstate. And voter polls showed that one-fourth of the people who voted for Mr. Schumer also voted for Mr. Pataki.
The Governor carried 58 of the state's 62 counties -- all but Brooklyn, Manhattan, the Bronx and Queens.
Mr. Pataki has said little about what he would do in a second term, beyond continuing to cut taxes and toughen criminal penalties, but the magnitude of his victory could allow him to claim a mandate for whatever his second-term agenda may hold. If the economy slows, however, Mr. Pataki's plans could be overtaken by budget woes, precisely the opposite of the circumstances that he has enjoyed for the last four years, as the economic expansion and Wall Street boom allowed the Governor to do what he promised and more, simultaneously cutting taxes and raising spending.
Mr. Pataki's victory brings to statewide politics a new face, that of Mary O. Donohue, his running mate for lieutenant governor. Ms. Donohue, a former judge and prosecutor from the Albany area, takes on a purely ceremonial post, but would become governor if her boss were elected to national office.
And the election may mark the end of the political career of Ms. McCaughey Ross, the Republican-turned-Democrat whose brief, odd sojourn in politics had alienated her from both major parties.
In one of the race's many subplots, Mr. Golisano's showing was close to capturing for the four-year-old Independence Party the third position on the ballot for the next four years. Positions are assigned in order of gubernatorial vote, and Mr. Golisano was running close to the number of votes that Mr. Pataki garnered on the line of the Conservative Party, which has been listed third since the early 1970's.
Mr. Pataki took office in 1995 determined to cut not only taxes but also state spending on health care, education, mass transit and other areas, a quest that won him a legion of enemies and made him widely unpopular.
But in 1996, he began his political resurrection by forging an alliance of some of his harshest critics, including labor unions and environmentalists, in support of his $1.75 billion environmental bond act. The campaign for the measure was, as much as anything else, a campaign for Mr. Pataki, one that raised his popularity and softened his image.
Voters approved the environmental act.
By last year, Mr. Pataki was raising spending on popular programs, and he was widely seen as unassailable. The two men considered his strongest potential challengers, Mr. Schumer and State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, decided not to challenge him.
That left Mr. Vallone, virtually unknown outside New York City, as the leading candidate for the Democratic nomination. Not since 1966 had the Democrats nominated someone of so little stature for governor.
During the Democratic primary campaign, the mercurial Ms. McCaughey Ross drew much of the attention, and after she finished second to Mr. Vallone, she continued running for governor on the Liberal Party line.
Meanwhile, Mr. Golisano's ever-present advertisements drowned out Mr. Vallone's own meager media campaign. And he and Ms. McCaughey Ross both threatened to fragment whatever anti-Pataki vote there was.
But ultimately, those were little more than distractions from Mr. Vallone's deeper problems: the Governor was too popular, the voters were too complacent, Mr. Vallone was too uninspired a campaigner, and he had too little money to prevent a rout. In the most expensive gubernatorial race in New York State's history -- and one of the most costly in any state -- Mr. Pataki spent $20 million, Mr. Golisano may have matched that total, and Mr. Vallone spent just $6 million.
Mr. Vallone has faced speculation all year that his true aim in this race was to position himself to run for mayor of New York City in 2001, but yesterday, as he has all along, he declined to discuss that subject. "We'll talk about that in the next millennium," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A TIME FOR CELEBRATION -- Gov. George E. Pataki was joined at the New York Hilton last night by his wife, Libby, left, and Mary O. Donohue, his running mate, as they marked his victory in the race for governor. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); STATE REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); CITIES (52%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); GOLISANO, B THOMAS; MCCAUGHEY ROSS, BETSY (LT GOV) B THOMAS GOLISANO (68%); ALFONSE M D'AMATO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



116 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE NATION -- THE SENATE;
Democrats Boxer and Schumer Cruise, Although Republicans Retain Control

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

 BODY:
Republicans retained solid control of the Senate tonight, but struggled to pick up gains that would help advance their legislative agenda or a possible impeachment trial of President Clinton next year.
Democrats and Republicans were fighting to a draw in races around the country, defying expectations that low voter turnout might doom Democratic prospects. 
 Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina, the Republican incumbent, fell to a multimillionaire trial lawyer, John Edwards, and in New York, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato conceded to his Democratic challenger, Representative Charles E. Schumer. On the West Coast, two Democratic incumbents, Barbara Boxer of California and Patty Murray of Washington, won comfortably after pulling away from strong challenges in the campaign's closing days.
But in Illinois, the Democratic incumbent, Carol Moseley-Braun, was trailing State Senator Peter Fitzgerald.
"This was a status quo election," Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said on CNN's "Larry King Live." "The old saying that all politics is local is really true in this election."
But Mr. Faircloth was near tears in a concession speech to supporters. "I feel like I've let you down because we should have won."
Democrats were jubilant as results streamed in from across the nation, even as they conceded the possibility that Republicans could pad their majority if cliffhanger races in the West and Midwest went to Republicans.
"We could still end up losing one or two seats," said Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, vice chairman of the Senate Democratic re-election committee, "but the practical result of the election, even if there are modest losses, is the effort to remove President Clinton, for all practical purposes, has ended."
The Democratic incumbents Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin and Harry Reid of Nevada were still fighting for their political lives. And the race in Kentucky between two Congressmen, Scotty Baesler, a Democrat, and Jim Bunning, a Republican, was still neck and neck. But one of the lions of the old Democratic South, Senator Ernest F. Hollings, held off a spirited challenge from Representative Bob Inglis.
Of the 34 Senate seats on the ballot, 18 were held by Democrats and 16 by Republicans. But Democrats had far more vulnerable Senators.
As expected, most incumbents, like Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, retained their seats, a sign of voter satisfaction with the hardy economy and a paucity of well-financed, competitive challengers.
Three Democrats and two Republicans are retiring. Typically, open seats are easier for an opposing party to take over.
Democrats and Republicans swapped two of those open seats. In Ohio, George V. Voinovich, the Republican Governor, handily turned back Mary Boyle, a former Cuyahoga County commissioner, to take the seat of the retiring Senator John Glenn.
In Indiana, Evan Bayh, the popular former Democratic Governor, easily outpaced Paul Helmke, the mayor of Fort Wayne, to replace Daniel R. Coats, a Republican.
Democrats retained the seat of Senator Dale Bumpers of Arkansas, who is retiring, as former Representative Blanche Lambert Lincoln defeated the Republican State Senator Fay Boozman. In the fourth open seat, Representative Michael D. Crapo of Idaho, a Republican, easily won election to succeed Senator Dirk Kempthorne, who stepped down to run for governor.
In a year where no overpowering national issue emerged, many Democratic candidates spoke about preserving Social Security and boosting education while many Republicans discussed tax cuts and shifting power from Washington to local governments.
In the waning days of the campaign, Republicans launched a $10 million television advertising campaign that aimed to energize their voter base by exploiting President Clinton's sex scandal.
Democrats gleefully seized on the advertisements as a desperate last-minute gamble that would backfire with voters, who in public opinion polls have voiced disapproval of the Republican-led impeachment inquiry into Mr. Clinton.
Republicans have controlled both the House and Senate since the landslide midterm elections of 1994. Republicans held sway in the Senate from 1980 to 1986, briefly interrupting what had been largely unbroken Democratic dominance of the upper chamber since the late 1930's.
The Republicans' 55 seats in the current Senate are the most the party has held since the 56 of 1930 and 1931.
On the basis of historical precedent alone, Senate Democrats were resigned this year to losing at least a few seats. Since World War II, the President's party has gained seats in a midterm election only three times.
Early in the campaign season, Republicans had held out hope of reaching 60 votes, the magic number they needed to cut off Democratic-led debates and force a vote on an issue. Senator Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, has repeatedly used filibusters to stifle Republican initiatives.
It would also bring the Republicans closer to the two-thirds majority, or 67 votes, needed to override a presidential veto or to approve a treaty. If the impeachment proceedings under way in the House reached the Senate, 67 votes would be needed to convict Mr. Clinton and remove him from office.
But achieving even 60 votes has proved elusive for both parties in the last two decades. Since 1975, only the Democrats have held more than 60 seats, and that was for just one session, in 1977.
By midsummer, Mr. Lott had publicly all but ruled out reaching 60 votes, scaling back projections to one to three seats. However, even modest gains like those would help Republicans break legislative logjams over issues that have lacked a solid conservative edge. For two years in a row, Republicans have fallen three votes short of overriding Mr. Clinton's veto of legislation that would have banned a controversial procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Any Republican gains in the Senate would fuel momentum for conservatives to provide dependable anti-abortion votes.
In addition, Senate Republicans twice this year fell one vote short of cutting off a Democratic filibuster on a proposal to require the Government to push ahead with a national defense against long-range missiles as soon as technologically feasible. If armed with a wider majority next year, Republicans are certain to offer the measure again, even though the military's Joint Chiefs of Staff oppose it.
Tonight, though, even those modest gains, and what extra advantage they bring with them, appeared in doubt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A NEW SENATOR BAYH -- Evan Bayh, the popular former Governor of Indiana, easily won election to the Senate. He celebrated in Indianapolis last night with his wife, Susan, and his twin sons, Beau, left, and Nick. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) FORT WAYNE NEWSPAPERS (50%); SENATE DEMOCRATIC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) SENATE DEMOCRATIC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); COUNTIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (93%); BARBARA BOXER (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); EVAN BAYH (78%); TRENT LOTT (59%); JOHN EDWARDS (59%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); BOB INGLIS (59%); JIM BUNNING (59%); RUSS FEINGOLD (59%); HARRY REID (59%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



117 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
WYOMING

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
In the Governor's race, the major issue was Wyoming's weak economy. But the Republican incumbent, Jim Geringer, won re-election. The state's only Representative, Barbara Cubin, a Republican, was also favored to keep her seat.
The governor's race drew national attention because quarrels among Republicans gave a boost to the Democrat, State Senator John P. Vinich. 
 After the killing of a gay University of Wyoming student, some Democratic candidates for the State Legislature tried to make an issue out of Republican opposition to a hate-crimes bill.
 
GOVERNOR
15% reporting
Vinich 10,860 40%
Geringer 15,340 56%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (56%); STATE LEGISLATURE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (56%); STATE LEGISLATURE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING; UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); HATE CRIME (88%); 

PERSON: GERINGER, JIM (GOV); VINICH, JOHN P (SEN) BARBARA CUBIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



118 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: From Boston to New York, Cities Are Changing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Boston Leading a Renewal of Old Northern Cities" (front page, Nov. 3): Rather than serving as a national model, the conversion of Boston's once vital neighborhoods into polluted and gridlocked "urban entertainment zones" designed for the amusement of suburban interlopers and gawking tourists and their cars is a catastrophe in the making. 
 A more desirable model of urban development would include a sound industrial policy centered around Boston Harbor's commerce, biotech research and high-tech manufacturing; public-transit projects. and mixed-income housing construction.
Randomly dividing Boston into auto-centric megaplex attractions is an irreversible civic disaster. Worse yet, this misbegotten venture has been rammed down Boston citizens' throats without open debate -- a sad statement for a city that once served as the cradle of the American Revolution.
 
PETER CATALANO
Boston, Nov. 3, 1998
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: CATALANO, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



119 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: AROUND THE REGION -- CONNECTICUT;
Rowland Wins Overwhelming Re-election

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut, a Republican, rode an economic recovery and a listless opposition to a landslide re-election today, overwhelming United States Representative Barbara B. Kennelly in every region of the state, including her own Congressional district.
The Governor, who has grown more moderate with each year in office, said he was "humbled by the outcome," then used his victory speech to reach across party lines. "We are fiscally conservative, but we are aggressively inclusive," he told supporters at a balloon-decked ballroom in his hometown of Waterbury. "This tent that we call the Republican Party is large enough to include anyone that wants to be in a partnership with moving this state ahead and bringing us into the next century." 
 With 90 percent of 811 precincts reporting, the vote was:
 
Rowland 538,743 (63%)
Kennelly 302,002 (35%)
Mr. Rowland said his landslide was a mandate to continue pursuing his agenda of lower taxes and less government. "The outcome of this election has nothing to do with anything Congresswoman Kennelly did wrong," he said. "The outcome of this election is a testament to what we've done right for the last four years. The best campaign ad is job performance."
After less than 10 percent of the vote had been counted, Mrs. Kennelly conceded the race. She drew cheers speaking to supporters at the Arch Street Tavern in her hometown of Hartford when she referred to the more moderate stands that Mr. Rowland took during the campaign, and urged him to remain the Governor he had been for the last year.
"Governor Rowland," she said, "you promised in your campaign that you would put education as a priority. You promised that open land was important to you. You promised all the things I've lived for. And I say to you, Governor: Keep those promises."
Today was the first time since 1944 that Connecticut re-elected a Republican Governor. The breadth of Mr. Rowland's victory was especially impressive because Connecticut had historically voted Democratic. Now, 40 percent of the state's registered voters are unaffiliated, 35 percent are Democrats and 25 percent are Republican.
With poll after poll showing Mr. Rowland swamping Mrs. Kennelly, the campaign had all but disappeared from public view in recent weeks, as Mr. Rowland tried to sit on his lead and Mrs. Kennelly sought to avoid questions about her lackluster campaign. As Mr. Rowland voted at a Hartford school today, clumps of supporters for the two candidates began chanting and elections officers struggled to separate them. "This is the most activity we've had in a year," he quipped.
Mr. Rowland, who at 41 is the nation's youngest governor, is a schmoozer who thrives under the television lights. Mrs. Kennelly, 62, did not seem comfortable with the demands of a modern campaign, and admitted frankly that she preferred the comfort of Capitol Hill, where she has represented the First District for eight terms.
As she conceded, Mrs. Kennelly alternately smiled and looked grave as she thanked her family and listed the issues that she said caused her to embark on such an uphill journey, including the protection of children, patients and the environment.
"I considered it a privilege for being allowed to be the standard bearer of the Democratic party," she said. "A real privilege. And I tried to do the best job possible, and I tried to speak for the families of Connecticut.
"I brought those issues into the light, where they belong."
Democrats once had great hope for Mrs. Kennelly, who is a daughter of John M. Bailey, a former Democratic National Committee chairman, and is the widow of James J. Kennelly, a former Speaker of the State House of Representatives. So much suspense had built up about her potential run that in September 1997, she made her announcement at the Old State House by tearing aside the shroud on a royal-blue sign that said simply, "Yes!"
Signs of trouble appeared quickly, though, as even Democratic audiences found Mrs. Kennelly to be an uninspiring and confusing speaker. A small but powerful group of Democratic leaders had convinced her to run, then did little to help her as her campaign faltered.
Mr. Rowland, whose own polls had shown him to be vulnerable on education and other issues just a year ago, used this winter's session of the State Legislature to methodically saw planks off Mrs. Kennelly's platform. He began advertising on television in January, building a rosy reputation, while Mrs. Kennelly stayed off the campaign trail, saying she was raising money. The icing on Mr. Rowland's cake was an income-tax rebate that began arriving in mailboxes in July, helping to salve voter anger at his failure to win repeal of the state income tax, which was the signature promise of his 1994 campaign.
This year's campaign was notable for the dearth of promises or attacks. Mr. Rowland talked up the recovering economy, which he called "the Connecticut comeback," and said he would continue to push for tax cuts, but offered few specifics.
About the only drama left as Election Day approached was how much of Mr. Rowland's luster would rub off on other Republicans. Two statewide Democratic incumbents won re-election -- Attorney General Richard Blumenthal over his Republican challenger, Santa Mendoza; and Comptroller Nancy Wyman, over Christopher Scalzo. Treasurer Paul Silvester, a Republican, was in a tight race with Denise Nappier. Susan Bysiecwicz, a Democrat, won election as Secretary of State over Ben F. Andrews Jr., a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE VICTOR -- Gov. John G. Rowland, followed by his wife, Patricia, ascended to the podium in a Waterbury hotel ballroom last night to make a victory speech after winning overwhelmingly in his re-election bid. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); KENNELLY, BARBARA BAILEY (REPR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



120 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: AROUND THE REGION -- THE CONGRESS;
Incumbents Prevail in 12 of 13 Districts Amid Very Low Voter Turnout

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Democrats regained a one-seat majority in New Jersey's Congressional delegation today, as Rush Holt capitalized on Republican Representative Mike Pappas's vocal support of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr to win a narrow victory in the 12th District.
Mr. Holt, a physicist from Pennigton, hammered away at Mr. Pappas for his outspoken criticism of President Clinton in the wake of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. After public opinion polls showed that Mr. Clinton's support remained strong in New Jersey despite the Independent Counsel's investigation, Mr. Holt's campaign aired an assortment of radio and television ads featuring Mr. Pappas singing Mr. Starr's praises on the floor of the Congress, to the tune of "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star." 
 The contest was so close that the Associated Press projected Mr. Pappas the winner at 10:10 P.M., when the election returns gave him a 16,000 vote lead with 88 percent of all precincts reporting. But that projection was withdrawn 40 minutes later, after the Mercer County Clerk's office acknowledged that it had mistakenly transposed as many as 9,000 of Mr. Holt's votes to Mr. Pappas's vote totals. Mr. Holt made his acceptance speech at 10:52 P.M. and could notresist making a quip about the ballot-counting mix-up.
"This election is about issues that hit close to home: education, addition," he said with a laugh.
It was the only New Jersey seat to change hands yesterday, leaving Democrats with a 7 to 6 seat advantage. Political analysts said a stable economy and a disinterested electorate helped incumbents in most districts.
Although many political analysts had anticipated that voter turnout would be depressed by President Clinton's sex scandal, and that a disproportionate number of Democrats might not vote, Democrats in New Jersey still recaptured all six of their seats. The state's only member of the House Judiciary Committee, Steven R. Rothman, a Democrat, won re-election, despite being a target of the Republican National Committee.
Mr. Rothman, a freshman, has never publicly stated whether he will vote to impeach Mr. Clinton. But his Republican challenger, Steven Lonegan, called for Mr. Clinton's resignation early in the campaign and pressed Mr. Rothman to do the same.
During the last month of the contest, House Speaker Newt Gingrich visited the district to raise money and promote Mr. Lonegan's platform of tax reform, fiscal restraint and conservative social values.
Frank Pallone, a Democrat, also won a close re-election race in the Sixth District, after late campaign visits from Hillary Rodham Clinton helped him edge out two well-financed challengers.
Walter Fields, a Democratic strategist, said the slim majority would give New Jersey Democrats a psychological boost.
"This shows that the Democratic party is alive and well in New Jersey, contrary to what some people have said," Mr. Fields said.
 
Twelfth District
A Clinton Critic Loses His Seat
Mr. Holt, 49, will become the first Democrat to win a Congressional seat in the 12th District.
Mr. Pappas, a partner in a family-owned insurance firm, stressed his political experience and focused on issues such as Social Security, tax reform and preserving New Jersey's open space from suburban sprawl. He said the race would not even have been close if Mr. Holt had not received money from the national Democratic Committee.
With 99 percent of the precincts reporting at midnight, the vote was:
 
Holt 89,630 (46%)
Pappas 102,315 (52%)
In proclaiming victory, Mr. Holt said he would now move to focus on core issues which would improve the everyday lives of New Jersey residents.
 
Sixth District
Race Gauges Effects Of 'Soft Money'
The Sixth District race was noteworthy because of the personal enmity among its candidates. But on a national level, many analysts monitored the race to gauge the influence of so-called issue-advocacy campaign money.
With 100 percent of the vote in at midnight, the vote was:
 
Pallone 77,722 (57%)
Ferguson 55,011 (40%)
Frank Pallone Jr., a five-term Democratic incumbent, was first confronted by a local nemesis, Carl J. Mayer, of Princeton, the Green Party's candidate, who lost the Democratic primary in the 12th District. Mr. Mayer was reported to have been so angered by Mr. Pallone's lack of support that he decided to challenge Mr. Pallone in the Sixth District general election, even though Mr. Mayer lives outside its boundaries.
Mr. Mayer survived a court challenge to his candidacy in the Sixth District, which includes parts of Monmouth and Middlesex Counties, and was expected to draw votes from Mr. Pallone.
In the waning days of the campaign, Mr. Pallone was also hard pressed to fend off Michael Ferguson, a Republican, whose campaign received a boost from several pro-business groups that ran ads critical of Mr. Pallone's voting record on Social Security.
Mr. Pallone said the ads distorted his record, and charged that the group financing the ads, Americans for Job Security, was actually a front for insurance companies seeking to derail his plans for reform of health maintenance organizations.
Mr. Pallone said he was shocked by the amount that insurance companies spent to defeat him, estimating it between $3 million and $4 million, and said he viewed their expensive opposition as a measure of the importance of insurance reform.
"More than anything else, I consider this a mandate for H.M.O. reform," Mr. Pallone said yesterday in his victory speech. "I hope they spend 8 or 10 million next time around."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); TAX LAW (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); SEX SCANDALS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID BILL CLINTON (93%); RUSH D HOLT (91%); STEVEN R ROTHMAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); FRANK PALLONE JR (59%); NEWT GINGRICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1998



121 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 2; Circuits 

LENGTH: 2000 words

HEADLINE: The O.E.D. Adds the Web to Its Lexicon

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX 

 BODY:
FILED carefully away in the offices of the Oxford English Dictionary are millions of handwritten index cards, many dating back to James Murray, the master lexicographer who presided over the dictionary's first edition at the turn of the century. For decades these cards, which document the appearance in English literature of words from abacination to zumbador, were the raw material from which the dictionary was made.
The cards, six million or seven million at last count, are still used in the continuing work of revising and updating the dictionary. But they now compete for office space with a dozen Sun Microsystems servers, 80 Sun workstations and a battery of PC's running Windows NT. The dictionary's lexicographers, in turn, are assisted by a team of systems engineers. 
 In the last few years, the O.E.D., the esteemed lexicon that conjures up images of paper, ink and a heady dust, has gradually entered the silicon age.
"We're still straddling the electronic world and the paper world," said Royalynn O'Connor, the on-line product director for Oxford University Press, which publishes the O.E.D.
First there was a CD-ROM, which was released in 1992 and contained the entire second edition of the dictionary. Then came a home page on the Web (www.oed.com), featuring history, newsletters and a Word of the Day. Now the O.E.D. is undertaking its most ambitious electronic project to date: next year, the entire dictionary is scheduled to be placed on the Internet as a searchable database. And with the recent publication of the best-selling book "The Professor and the Madman," by Simon Winchester, about a highly regarded contributor to the O.E.D. who also happened to be a deranged murderer, public interest in the dictionary is keen, Ms. O'Connor said.
But before the O.E.D. can be put on line, it must overcome a host of technical challenges, some common to all electronic dictionaries, others resulting from the singular and unwieldy nature of the O.E.D. itself.
In short, the dictionary's editors and technicians must take a 20-volume, 22,000-page reference work containing some three-quarters of a million entries and turn it into an electronic database that can be searched rapidly by machine and be read comfortably on a 15-inch computer monitor.
The dictionary's staff is currently field-testing a prototype of its on-line edition with invited groups of scholars, researchers and librarians around the United States. In January, Ms. O'Connor said, an outside contractor will be hired, after bids are submitted, to create the on-line edition and its search engine according to Oxford's minutely detailed specifications.
"Most publishers let their vendors design," said Ms. O'Connor, whose office is in New York. "We're designing it first because it's so critical and so complex."
The idea of on-line publication grew out of a major revision to the dictionary that has been under way since the early 1990's. The O.E.D.'s first edition, shepherded by James Murray, was published in 10 volumes between 1884 and 1928. In the years that followed, various supplements were issued. In 1989, Oxford published the second edition, which comprised the first edition, the supplements and about 5,000 new words, in 20 volumes.
Now, besides adding contemporary words (Ruthian, hyperlink), editors are revising the entire content of Mr. Murray's dictionary for the first time, updating Edwardian-era definitions, adding new bibliographic citations and correcting etymologies, based on advances in linguistic research. Work on the revised edition, which is expected to run to at least 30 volumes, is scheduled to last until 2010.
The incentive to go on line was twofold, Ms. O'Connor said. "One is, we are making discoveries about the English language that it would be very unfair to ask people to wait until 2010 to read."
The other motivation was economic. Throughout its history, the dictionary has never been profitable; the current revision alone is budgeted at $55 million. "There's some sense of, 'Can we get a return before 2010?' " Ms. O'Connor said. "We have to pay the lexicographers."
The on-line edition, which is scheduled to be available to the public by the end of 1999, will be accessible for a fee through the O.E.D.'s home page. It will consist at first of the dictionary's second edition, plus some revised entries and new words. As the revisions to the dictionary progress, new entries will be added quarterly, complementing but not replacing the earlier ones.
"This is one of the things we get loud and clear from our market research," Ms. O'Connor said. "Say a new entry comes up for 'restaurant.' People still want to see what the old entry was."
For every electronic dictionary, there are two paramount considerations: it should be easy to search and easy to read. Open the O.E.D. to any page. Each entry contains certain standard elements: the word itself, its variant spellings and etymology and -- the dictionary's defining characteristic -- citations of the word as it has been used in English literature through the centuries. In the on-line O.E.D., users must be able to search for each of these elements independently. Someone researching words with Basque in their pedigree, for example, should be able to summon up on line a list that includes anchovy, jingo and jai alai.
The text of the O.E.D. has actually existed in electronic form since the late 1980's, when it was put into Oxford's computers, a task that took 120 typists a year and a half. (The profusion of special characters in the dictionary made it impossible to scan using optical-character recognition.) The text was then tagged using SGML, a markup language designed to encode and organize large documents.
Some institutions, including academic libraries and the Bloomberg News Service, purchased copies of the SGML text on magnetic tape, added their own search engines and offered the result to users as a computerized O.E.D. "In the past few years, universities have been in essence publishing the O.E.D. on line," Ms. O'Connor said. "The problem with it is the cross-references don't work. There isn't the kind of consistency Oxford University Press would want."
To make their dictionary fully searchable, the O.E.D.'s editors must standardize a tangle of inconsistencies left over from Mr. Murray's day. Suppose you want to search for words quoted from "Treasure Island." The dictionary currently renders the book's title as Treasure Island, Treasure Isl., Treasure Is., Treas. Isl. and Treasure I. Until those entries are standardized, a search engine cannot easily retrieve them all together.
"We have a fairly large process of normalizing this bibliographical data," said John Simpson, the chief editor of the O.E.D., in a telephone interview from Oxford, England. "In the old days, it didn't really matter if you gave a different short title for a text in Volume 1 as you gave in Volume 11 because the reader knew what it meant. But now there's a requirement that people can search for what they want and get the appropriate matches."
Another challenge is representing the welter of special characters that appear in the dictionary text. There are more than 600 in all, including letters of the Greek alphabet, diacritical marks, mathematical symbols and the signs of the zodiac. (The CD-ROM came with special fonts that the user had to install, something the O.E.D. editors want to avoid for the Internet edition.)
Not only do these characters have to be legible and printable, they must be searchable as well. "Making sure you have a display that is configured so that it can be handled by that many computers operated by that many people in a consistent way is a huge task," said Kara Noble, director of electronic product development for Merriam-Webster, whose Collegiate Dictionary, 10th edition, is published on the Web (www.m-w.com/dictionary.htm). "It's easy for a schwa to look correct on my computer here in the office and totally different on your computer where you're sitting."
On the printed page, an O.E.D. entry is a crowded affair. But what readers can tolerate in a book will not always work on a computer monitor. As a result, the overall design of the O.E.D.'s screen display is crucial. "It's important that on first glance it has to look elegant, which isn't necessarily that first thing you think about with a dictionary," Mr. Simpson said. "The O.E.D. has a reputation for being elegant. It mustn't put the reader off by having so much information compacted together that it's difficult to read."
To unclutter the screen and reduce the need for scrolling, Oxford is experimenting with allowing features to be switched on and off within each entry. In an early version of the prototype, for example, small buttons labeled S and D represent a word's spelling and derivation, respectively. Call up the entry for the word merchant and click on the S, and up comes a list of variant spellings recorded over the centuries, including marchaund, marchande, mayrchand, maircheant, mairchantt and marchawn. The list can be hidden with another click. Clicking on D reveals the word's derivation, or etymology.
To streamline the display even more, the O.E.D. is shunning the electronic bells and whistles common to many Internet sites, like video streaming, audio clips and even illustrations. "There won't be a multimedia aspect to this," Ms. O'Connor said. "Because the entries are so complex, we're really aiming for something very simple."
As the specifications for the on-line edition are being finalized, the huge task of revising the century-old printed dictionary continues. As in Mr. Murray's time, the O.E.D. maintains a stable of outside "readers" in England and the United States who scour libraries -- and these days, literature databases as well -- for bibliographic citations. In many cases, their labor has uncovered far earlier citations for words than were previously known. (Mr. Simpson was delighted to report that "market-basket," first cited in 1807 in the O.E.D.'s second edition, has been antedated to 1585.)
Today, the readers send in their findings by modem, using what Mr. Simpson calls "the electronic equivalent of index cards" -- specially prepared database shells installed on their laptop computers. As in the past, lay people are also encouraged to contribute. And while some of these lay lexicographers still send in quotations the old-fashioned way, using pen and paper or even mailing in pasted-up pages torn from books (not recommended), many more, Ms. O'Connor said, now transmit their findings via E-mail or the guest book section of the O.E.D. Web site. The site maintains a list of words for which editors need additional citations (glatt kosher before 1973, grandkid before 1948).
There is still no decision on how much it will cost to use the O.E.D. on line and what kind of access first-time browsers will get, Ms. O'Connor said. "Is it free one weekend?" she wondered aloud. "Is it free on Sunday? Can you use it for two weeks? Can you look up 30 words? We have to decide, and that's one of the fun things about the Web -- you can do all of those things. It's a fun way to give away information without giving away the whole store."
As the O.E.D. lumbers genteelly into the new millennium, it is heartening to note that however vital its computers have become, they can never fully replace the work of its pencil-wielding, flesh-and-blood staff. "An awful lot of it will remain having to be done by the individual editors," Mr. Simpson said. "The actual defining, for example. You can't ask a computer to define for us."
And the O.E.D.'s file cards, too, seem assured of a place in the 21st-century life of the dictionary. "It's actually quite efficient to use the index cards," Mr. Simpson said.
As he spoke, he riffled through a small batch on his desk containing words beginning with the letter M. "You can put them into little piles," he said. "I wouldn't want to denigrate them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Oxford English Dictionary has changed since the days of the master lexicographer James Murray, top, around 1900, but many quotations showing word usage are still filed on paper, center. The O.E.D. now has a Web page, above. (Top: Oxford University Press)(pg. G8); MIXING OLD AND NEW -- John Simpson, chief editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, uses a computer to work on the on-line edition, but the office still stores much information on paper. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (68%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DICTIONARIES; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (87%); LITERATURE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); NETWORK SERVERS (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); LIBRARIANS (72%); BESTSELLERS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: SIMPSON, JOHN; O'CONNOR, ROYALYNN; FOX, MARGALIT MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



122 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
ARIZONA

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Gov. Jane Dee Hull, the Republican incumbent, cruised to her first full term, despite the faction of state Republicans who felt that she was not conservative enough. Ms. Hull, a former junior high school teacher, state legislator and secretary of state, became Governor in September 1997, when Gov. Fife Symington was convicted of financial fraud. Her Democratic opponent, Paul Johnson, the former Mayor of Phoenix, sparked little interest in his tax-cut plans.
In the Senate race, John McCain, the Republican incumbent known for his efforts on campaign finance reform, his leadership on tobacco legislation and his potential as a Presidential candidate, crushed his Democratic opponent, Ed Ranger, a political novice. Mr. Ranger, a lawyer who graduated from law schools both in the United States and Mexico and in 1994 set up a law firm in Mexico to counsel American companies doing business there, had an uphill fight to build a political base in Arizona, which he returned to only recently. 
 Arizona voters approved a plan to give substantial public money to political candidates who voluntarily limit their spending and raise certain small contributions.
 
SENATE
99% reporting
Ranger 250,890 28%
McCain 622,710 68%
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Johnson 328,268 36%
Hull 554,353 61%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the West"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 15%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 16%
Clinton was not a factor: 68%
No answer: 1%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 28%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 30%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 6%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 37%
Drop the whole matter: 60%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
25% Education
19% Morals and ethics
14% The economy and jobs
11% Social Security
8% Taxes
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,294 voters leaving polling places in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); TAX LAW (70%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); REFERENDUMS (66%); APPROVALS (52%); 

PERSON: HULL, JANE DEE (GOV); JOHNSON, PAUL; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); RANGER, ED BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



123 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- NORTHEAST;
CONNECTICUT

 BODY:
Proving his enduring popularity among Connecticut voters, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, won a fourth term by a landslide.
During the campaign, Republicans hoped that the incumbent, a close friend of President Clinton, would be hurt by the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal. But Mr. Dodd strongly criticized Mr. Clinton over his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, and the Republicans' strategy lost steam. 
 It was the Republican candidate, Gary A. Franks, whose effort was crippled by scandal. Mr. Franks was dogged by questions over delinquent loans and was unable to raise money.
Gov. John G. Rowland, a 41-year-old Republican, swept back into office on a wave of voter enthusiasm over the state's robust economy. His challenger, Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, 62, a nine-term congresswoman, could not match Mr. Rowland's buoyant campaign style.
But Mr. Rowland's popularity was not strong enough to help carry Republican candidates to office in two key Congressional races. A Democrat, John B. Larson, a former state senator, beat a Republican candidate, Kevin O'Connor. And a Republican challenger, Mark D. Nielsen, was unable to unseat Representative John H. Maloney, a Democrat.
 
SENATE
98% reporting
Dodd 616,934 65%
Franks 310,290 33%
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Kennelly 342,011 35%
Rowland 607,672 63%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Northeast"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 24%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 17%
Clinton was not a factor: 55%
No answer: 4%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 26%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 34%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 33%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 33%
Drop the whole matter: 64%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Education
16% The economy and jobs
15% Taxes
12% Morals and ethics
11% Social Security
7% Health care
6% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,809 voters leaving polling places in Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and West Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ELECTION RESULTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (72%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); FRANKS, GARY A; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); KENNELLY, BARBARA BAILEY (REPR) BILL CLINTON (94%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); JOHN LARSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



124 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- SOUTH;
TENNESSEE

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
As expected, Don Sundquist, the Republican incumbent, easily won another term as governor, a job he came to in 1994 after 12 years in the House, where he served on the Ways and Means Committee. Governor Sundquist was so heavily favored that it was hard to find a challenger, and even when John Jay Hooker, who had the Democratic nomination in 1966 and 1970, stepped up for a third shot, it was never an all-out campaign.
Mr. Hooker, a Nashville lawyer, was an unusual candidate who stayed clear of Vice President Al Gore's Tennessee appearances because of a decadelong feud with Mr. Gore. 
 Although Mr. Hooker, whose Minnie Pearl fried-chicken franchise failed in the 1970's, tried to focus the race on campaign finance, he remained better known for suing state agencies and announcing that he wanted to hold his fund-raiser in the governor's mansion.
Gov. Sundquist emphasized his record on welfare reform and improved programs for children.
His easy re-election was mirrored in the races for Congress, where Incumbents prevailed in all nine districts. None of the races were close, and two were uncontested.
 
GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Hooker 287,241 29%
Sundquist 668,687 69%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the South"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 16%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 26%
Clinton was not a factor: 56%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 36%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 32%
No answer: 5%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 46%
Drop the whole matter: 51%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
22% Morals and ethics
19% Education
14% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
5% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,744 voters leaving polling places in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); FRANCHISING (54%); 

PERSON: SUNDQUIST, DONALD K (GOV); HOOKER, JOHN JAY BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



125 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- MIDWEST;
ILLINOIS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

 BODY:
Carol Moseley-Braun, the nation's first black female Senator, was defeated by Peter Fitzgerald, a wealthy conservative Republican who attacked her for "six years of scandal and controversy."
Hillary Rodham Clinton frequently visited Illinois in an effort to help Ms. Moseley-Braun, but the Democratic Senator could not overcome criticism of her 1996 visit with the Nigerian dictator Sani Abacha. 
 Mr. Fitzgerald bombarded voters with television commercials criticizing the trip to Nigeria and highlighting allegations that Ms. Moseley-Braun and a former campaign manager had spent $281,000 in 1992 campaign money on vacations, cars and jewelry. Mr. Fitzgerald, a state senator, spent large amounts of his own money on the campaign.
Those who voted for Mr. Fitzgerald often mentioned ethical standards as the issue that mattered most to them; Ms. Moseley-Braun's supporters often cited Social Security as the issue most important to them.
Republicans held onto the governor's office. Voters chose George H. Ryan, the Secretary of State, over Representative Glenn Poshard, a Democrat from downstate Illinois, to replace Gov. Jim Edgar, a Republican who is retiring after eight years in office.
In the hottest House race, Representative Lane Evans, a Democrat, held onto his seat in the Rock Island-Moline area. With strong support from labor and environmental groups, he defeated the Republican candidate, Mark Baker, a former television newsman who also ran against Mr. Evans in 1996.
Democrats retained Mr. Poshard's seat in the 19th District, as David Phelps defeated Brent Winters, the Republican candidate.
 
SENATE
98% reporting
Moseley-Braun 1,565,265 47%
Fitzgerald 1,691,994 51%
 
GOVERNOR
98% reporting
Poshard 1,557,157 47%
Ryan 1,681,319 51%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Midwest"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 17%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 22%
Clinton was not a factor: 59%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 30%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 40%
Drop the whole matter: 56%
No answer: 4%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Morals and ethics
18% Education
15% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 3,097 voters leaving polling places in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); ETHICS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MOSELEY-BRAUN, CAROL (SEN); FITZGERALD, PETER (STATE SEN); RYAN, GEORGE H (SEC); POSHARD, GLENN (REPR); EVANS, LANE (REPR); PHELPS, DAVID; BAKER, MARK R; WINTERS, BRENT BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



126 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- NORTHEAST;
RHODE ISLAND

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Governor Lincoln C. Almond, the Republican incumbent, beat Myrth York, the challenger, in a civil, almost boring, rematch that lacked any galvanizing issue.
In the 1994 election, when the big issue was gambling -- Mr. Almond was adamantly opposed, Ms. York less so -- he won 47 percent of the vote and she got 44 percent. The rest went to the Cool Moose Party candidate, Robert Healey Jr., who was back for the rematch. 
This time, the race was not quite as tight between Governor Almond and Ms. York. Governor Almond, who lacks natural political ease, ran on his success in bolstering what had been a weak state economy, and portrayed Ms. York, a former state senator, as too liberal. Ms. York argued that the economy could, and should, be much better.
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
York 124,435 42%
Almond 150,787 51%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Northeast"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 24%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 17%
Clinton was not a factor: 55%
No answer: 4%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 26%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 34%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 33%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 33%
Drop the whole matter: 64%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Education
16% The economy and jobs
15% Taxes
12% Morals and ethics
11% Social Security
7% Health care
6% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,809 voters leaving polling places in Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and West Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND; UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); 

PERSON: ALMOND, LINCOLN C (GOV); YORK, MYRTH (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



127 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
HAWAII

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

 BODY:
Backed by a strong union showing, the incumbent Democrat, Ben Cayetano, narrowly defeated his Republican challenger, Linda Lingle, the Mayor of Maui. Ms. Lingle was trying to become Hawaii's first elected Republican governor since it became a state 39 years ago. A struggling economy that was being dragged down by the crisis in Asia nearly allowed her to succeed.
Both Neil Abercrombie and Patsy Mink, the state's Democratic House members, won re-election, as did its Democratic Senator, Daniel K. Inouye. 
 By 2 to 1, voters also approved an initiative allowing the state legislature to ban same-sex marriages. The effort was spurred by a 1993 State Supreme Court ruling that could have opened the way for marriages of people of the same sex to be recognized.
 
SENATE
99% reporting
Inouye 305,410 79%
Young 68,371 18%
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Cayetano 197,639 50%
Lingle 192,582 49%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the West"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 15%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 16%
Clinton was not a factor: 68%
No answer: 1%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 28%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 30%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 6%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 37%
Drop the whole matter: 60%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
25% Education
19% Morals and ethics
14% The economy and jobs
11% Social Security
8% Taxes
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,294 voters leaving polling places in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (87%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (87%); HAWAII, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; HOMOSEXUALITY; REFERENDUMS; MARRIAGES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); REFERENDUMS (86%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (86%); MARRIAGE (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); MARRIAGE LAW (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPROVALS (53%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (52%); 

PERSON: CAYETANO, BENJAMIN (GOV); LINGLE, LINDA (MAYOR); ABERCROMBIE, NEIL (REP); MINK, PATSY T (REPR); INOUYE, DANIEL K (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); DANIEL INOUYE (88%); LINDA LINGLE (79%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



128 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR. 

 BODY:
Democrats swept powerfully through the nation's most populous state, seizing the governorship and other statewide offices, retaining a Senate seat and gaining a major advantage when California's huge House delegation, making up about an eighth of the House of Representatives, goes through redistricting after the 2000 census.
It has been 16 years since California had a Democratic governor. The last one was Edmund G. Brown Jr. The next will be Mr. Brown's former chief of staff in Sacramento, Lieut. Gov. Gray Davis. 
 Mr. Davis overcame a reputation for dullness with a sure-footed campaign that highlighted his political moderation. He defeated the staunchly conservative Republican candidate, Attorney General Dan Lungren.
Meanwhile, the incumbent Democratic Senator, Barbara Boxer, managed to defeat the Republican State Treasurer, Matt Fong.
The pair of victories is of monumental importance to the Democrats as they prepare for the Presidential election two years from now. President Clinton, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and other Administration officials had campaigned hard in the state.
Proposition 5, an initiative that would allow expansion of Indian gambling operations, was approved by voters but might face a court challenge. Proposition 9, which would have undone provisions involving the deregulation of electricity, was defeated. Both ballot measures sparked enormous advertising campaigns; more than $70 million was spent on the gambling initiative alone.

SENATE
100% reporting
Boxer 3,910,987 53%
Fong 3,154,036 43%
 
GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Davis 4,294,946 58%
Lungren 2,842,173 38%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the West"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 15%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 16%
Clinton was not a factor: 68%
No answer: 1%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 28%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 30%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 6%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 37%
Drop the whole matter: 60%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
25% Education
19% Morals and ethics
14% The economy and jobs
11% Social Security
8% Taxes
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,294 voters leaving polling places in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; GAMBLING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INDIANS, AMERICAN; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); REDISTRICTING (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CENSUS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); BALLOTS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); APPROVALS (67%); ENERGY REGULATION (66%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (LT GOV); LUNGREN, DANIEL E (ATTY GEN); BOXER, BARBARA (SEN); FONG, MATT (STATE TREAS) BILL CLINTON (93%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARBARA BOXER (79%); JERRY BROWN (74%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



129 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
WASHINGTON

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Patty Murray, a Democrat who made a nationwide name for herself in 1992 campaigning as the "mom in tennis shoes," won a second term in a tough race against Representative Linda Smith, a Republican who had backing from the Christian right.
In the third woman-versus-woman Senate race in history, Ms. Smith was known for down-to-earth sound bites, like when she spoke of "fighting against leches in the workplace who hit on young women," a reference to President Clinton. 
 Ms. Smith paid a price for her longstanding support for campaign finance reform: the Republican organization gave her little money, and she was noticeably outspent early in the campaign.
Washington voters approved Initiative 200, an anti-affirmative action measure, modeled on California's, that will ban racial or gender preferences in government hiring, contracting or college admissions.
As in other states, Washington voters rejected a proposed ban on a type of late-term abortion. And, one year after vetoing a broader plan some thought might leave the door open to legalizing other drugs, voters approved a ballot initiative allowing the medical use of marijuana.
 
SENATE
98% reporting
Murray 807,499 58%
Smith 576,674 42%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the West"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 15%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 16%
Clinton was not a factor: 68%
No answer: 1%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 28%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 30%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 6%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 37%
Drop the whole matter: 60%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
25% Education
19% Morals and ethics
14% The economy and jobs
11% Social Security
8% Taxes
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,294 voters leaving polling places in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ABORTION; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ELECTIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFERENDUMS; DRUG LEGALIZATION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (78%); WOMEN (77%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); CANNABIS (70%); BALLOTS (68%); ABORTION (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (65%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (65%); 

PERSON: MURRAY, PATTY (SEN); SMITH, LINDA (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); PATTY MURRAY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



130 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- NORTHEAST;
WEST VIRGINIA

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

 BODY:
West Virginia confirmed its status as a loyal Democratic state, re-electing three Democratic incumbents who faced either token or no Republican opposition. Representative Alan Mollohan and Nick Joe Rahall easily beat Libertarian candidates.
Representative Robert Wise, an eight-term incumbent, drew a Republican challenger. But the candidate, Sally Anne Kay, did not raise any money, broadcast any commercials or show up for scheduled debates with Mr. Wise. Still she garnered 21 percent of the vote, to Mr. Wise's 73 percent. Joe Whelan, the Libertarian, had 14 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Northeast"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 24%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 17%
Clinton was not a factor: 55%
No answer: 4%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 26%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 34%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 33%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 33%
Drop the whole matter: 64%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Education
16% The economy and jobs
15% Taxes
12% Morals and ethics
11% Social Security
7% Health care
6% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,809 voters leaving polling places in Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and West Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); 

PERSON: MOLLOHAN, ALAN B (REPR); RAHALL, NICK JOE (REPR); WISE, ROBERT E JR (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN B MOLLOHAN (88%); NICK J RAHALL II (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



131 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- MIDWEST;
OHIO

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
The Taft name is gold in Ohio, where Secretary of State Bob Taft, the Republican candidate for governor, defeated former Attorney General Lee Fisher. Eight years ago, Mr. Taft, the great-grandson of President William Howard Taft, ceded the Republican nomination for governor to George Voinovich, then Mayor of Cleveland. But this year, with Governor Voinovich barred by law from re-election and pursuing the Senate seat vacated by John Glenn, Mr. Taft had a clear shot at the governorship.
Mr. Fisher, a Cleveland lawyer and great-grandson of a sheet-metal worker who emigrated from Russia, campaigned as a people's candidate who planned to slash property taxes. 
 In the Senate, Governor Voinovich won a seat from the Democrats, sweeping to victory against Mary Boyle, a former majority whip in the State House of Representatives. School financing was a big issue in Ohio, where voters last spring overwhelmingly rejected a Voinovich-backed proposal to raise the state sales tax for education. Ms. Boyle charged that Governor Voinovich had let the schools decline.
 
SENATE
99% reporting
Boyle 1,458,210 44%
Voinovich 1,887,342 56%
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Fisher 1,471,586 45%
Taft 1,651,399 50%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Midwest"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 17%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 22%
Clinton was not a factor: 59%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 30%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 40%
Drop the whole matter: 56%
No answer: 4%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Morals and ethics
18% Education
15% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 3,097 voters leaving polling places in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) STATE HOUSE PRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); LAWYERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); SALES TAX (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); 

PERSON: TAFT, BOB; FISHER, LEE; VOINOVICH, GEORGE (GOV); BOYLE, MARY O GEORGE VOINOVICH (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); ROBERT FISHER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



132 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- SOUTH;
TEXAS

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON 

 BODY:
Gov. George W. Bush, a Republican who campaigned hard among Hispanic voters, was re-elected by a landslide, the first Texas governor to win consecutive terms in 25 years.
Images of the Governor -- speaking in Spanish about good schools and safe neighborhoods -- filled Texas airwaves. Polls showed that the strategy paid off big, with Mr. Bush winning more than 40 percent of the Hispanic vote. That kind of showing will likely elevate Mr. Bush's standing among potential Republican candidates for President. The Hispanic population, which will soon be the largest minority group in America, is an important target for both parties in 2000. 
 Mr. Bush's opponent, Garry Mauro, the state's Land Commissioner and executive director of the Texas Democratic Party, had challenged Mr. Bush to "let us know if he's going to be a full-time Governor."
Republicans were counting on Governor Bush's popularity to sweep several other Texas candidates into office. Rudy Izzard, a dentist and former San Angelo Mayor, ran a strong but unsuccessful Republican campaign against Representative Charles Stenholm. The 10-term Democratic incumbent was re-elected to his seat.
Mr. Stenholm's campaign, which raised twice as much money as his challenger's, emphasized the Congressman's conservative views and his political independence. But in an increasingly Republican district, he struggled until Election Day to stay in office.
Representative Martin Frost, another 10-term Democratic incumbent, also fought off a challenge. Mr. Frost, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, spent as much time fighting for his own seat as he did fighting for Democrats across the country.
His Republican opponent, Shawn Terry, 31, a management consultant, accused the Congressman of distorting his record to appear conservative. Mr. Frost attacked his challenger as too young and inexperienced.
 
GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Mauro 1,157,574 31%
Bush 2,569,195 69%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the South"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 16%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 26%
Clinton was not a factor: 56%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 36%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 32%
No answer: 5%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 46%
Drop the whole matter: 51%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
22% Morals and ethics
19% Education
14% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
5% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,744 voters leaving polling places in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (98%); TEXAS, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MAURO, GARRY (COMR); STENHOLM, CHARLES W (REPR); IZZARD, RUDY; FROST, MARTIN (REPR); TERRY, SHAWN BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



133 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- WEST;
NEVADA

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
It took most of the night, but Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat, emerged as the victor in a close fight against Representative John Ensign. When the count was complete, Mr. Reid's victory margin was fewer than 500 votes.
The Senator, who won a third term, outpolled his Republican challenger in Las Vegas. Mr. Ensign did better in rural localities and in the Reno area. 
 Mr. Ensign was no stranger to close races. He had been about to concede his race for the House four years ago when late returns pushed him ahead of the incumbent by about 1,500 votes.
In the governor's race, Kenny Guinn, a former state school superintendent and president of the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, defeated Jan Laverty Jones, the Mayor of Las Vegas.
Mr. Guinn had received early financial backing from the state's gambling industry. But after he became locked in a surprisingly tough primary battle, the casino industry also contributed to Ms. Jones's campaign.
 
SENATE
100% reporting
Reid 208,579 48%
Ensign 208,120 48%
 
GOVERNOR
100% reporting
Jones 182,238 42%
Guinn 223,798 52%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the West"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 15%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 16%
Clinton was not a factor: 68%
No answer: 1%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 28%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 30%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 6%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 37%
Drop the whole matter: 60%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
25% Education
19% Morals and ethics
14% The economy and jobs
11% Social Security
8% Taxes
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 1,294 voters leaving polling places in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); RENO, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); RENO, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GAMING (76%); CASINOS (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (53%); 

PERSON: REID, HARRY (SEN); ENSIGN, JOHN (REPR); GUINN, KENNY C; JONES, JAN LAVERTY (MAYOR) JOHN ENSIGN (92%); HARRY REID (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



134 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- MIDWEST;
NORTH DAKOTA

 BODY:
The incumbent Democratic Senator, Byron L. Dorgan, breezed to re-election. Mr. Dorgan had virtually ignored his opponent, Donna Nalewaja. and outspent her, raising more than $1.7 million to her $150,000. Ms. Nalewaja had billed the campaign as "Donna vs. Goliath." 
 The bitter race for the House seat drew most of the post-election attention. The Democratic incumbent, Earl Pomeroy, defeated the Republican challenger, Kevin Cramer, with 56 percent of the vote. It was the second time the two candidates had faced each other and the second Pomeroy victory. Mr. Cramer said he was leaving the door open to yet another face-off in two years.

SENATE
100% reporting
Dorgan 134,293 63%
Nalewaja 74,695 35%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Midwest"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 17%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 22%
Clinton was not a factor: 59%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 30%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 40%
Drop the whole matter: 56%
No answer: 4%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Morals and ethics
18% Education
15% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 3,097 voters leaving polling places in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (59%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (59%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (59%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); 

PERSON: DORGAN, BYRON (SEN); NALEWAJA, DONNA; POMEROY, EARL (REPR); CRAMER, KEVIN KEVIN CRAMER (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); BYRON DORGAN (91%); EARL POMEROY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



135 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- SOUTH;
MISSISSIPPI

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

 BODY:
Ronnie Shows, a conservative Democrat, won the state's most interesting House race, for the Fourth District seat being vacated by Representative Mike Parker, a Republican. Mr. Shows had name recognition as an elected highway commissioner and former state senator. He defeated Delbert Hosemann, a tax lawyer in Jackson, who tried to portray Mr. Shows as a liberal. 
 In the state's four other Congressional districts, the incumbents kept their seats. Two winners, Roger Wicker and Charles W. Pickering Jr., are Republicans. And two, Bennie Thompson and Gene Taylor, are Democrats. Mississippi voters have not defeated an incumbent Congressman since 1986.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the South"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 16%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 26%
Clinton was not a factor: 56%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 36%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 32%
No answer: 5%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 46%
Drop the whole matter: 51%
No answer: 3%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
22% Morals and ethics
19% Education
14% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
5% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 2,744 voters leaving polling places in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAWYERS (54%); 

PERSON: SHOWS, RONNIE; HOSEMANN, DELBERT; WICKER, ROGER (REPR); PICKERING, CHARLES W JR (REPR); THOMPSON, BENNIE (REPR); TAYLOR, GENE (REPR) BILL CLINTON (91%); GENE TAYLOR (73%); CHARLES W PICKERING (73%); ROGER F WICKER (73%); BENNIE THOMPSON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



136 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: STATE BY STATE -- MIDWEST;
NEBRASKA

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

 BODY:
After an eight-year absence, Republicans captured the governor's mansion as Mike Johanns, the two-term Mayor of Lincoln, easily beat Bill Hoppner, a former aide to Senator Bob Kerrey. Mr. Johanns's victory completed a remarkable political rise for him that began in May, when he was the surprise winner in a primary against Representative Jon Christensen and John Breslow, a businessman.
Touting his record as mayor, Mr. Johanns was able to overcome having changed positions on a major ballot initiative to restrict growth in state and local government spending and taxes. The initiative was defeated. 
 In the House races, two incumbent Republicans, Doug Bereuter and Bill Barrett, won easily. For the seat vacated by Mr. Christensen, Lee Terry, a Republican Omaha City Councilman, defeated Michael Scott, a former television news anchorman.
 
GOVERNOR
99% reporting
Hoppner 237,207 46%
Johanns 277,927 54%

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graphs: "Views in the Midwest"
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Bill Clinton: 17%
To express opposition to Bill Clinton: 22%
Clinton was not a factor: 59%
No answer: 2%
 
Was one reason for your vote for Congress:
 
To express support for Republican control of Congress: 30%
To express opposition to Republican control of Congress: 27%
Republican control of Congress was not a factor: 36%
No answer: 7%
 
Do you think Congress should:
 
Proceed with impeachment hearings: 40%
Drop the whole matter: 56%
No answer: 4%
 
Which one issue mattered most in deciding how you voted for U.S. House?
 
19% Morals and ethics
18% Education
15% Taxes
13% The economy and jobs
12% Social Security
7% Health care
5% The Clinton/Lewinsky matter
 
(Source: Voter News Service exit poll of 3,097 voters leaving polling places in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); REFERENDUMS (86%); BALLOTS (71%); 

PERSON: JOHANNS, MIKE (MAYOR); HOPPNER, BILL; BEREUTER, DOUG (REPR); BARRETT, BILL (REPR); TERRY, LEE (COUNCILMAN); SCOTT, MICHAEL MIKE JOHANNS (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



137 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Glenn E. Nielson, 95, Builder Of Oil and Asphalt Business

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Glenn E. Nielson, who built a petroleum and asphalt empire from a single leased oilfield and a closed oil refinery it served in Cody, Wyo., died on Oct. 19 at his home in Cody, according to Margaret Ruth Bullock, his daughter. He was 95.
Mr. Nielson found partners to help him buy what was then called the Park Refinery Company in 1938, a year after its owner had asked him to try to find a buyer. He then cajoled friends and local financiers into giving him enough cash to run the operation. By 1952, he had transformed it into the Husky Oil Company, a publicly traded company with production in Canada and seven states and refineries churning out gasoline and asphalt. 
 Mr. Nielson went on to gain the nickname Mr. Asphalt for his tireless efforts to expand use of the paving material in the United States and Canada and a leading spokesman for regional oil companies in the industry's trade organizations.
In 1966, he gained broader recognition as chairman of the Business-Industry Political Action Committee, a business lobbying group set up in 1963 to counter the influence of the Committee on Political Education, then the political action arm of organized labor.
Husky had become Canada's largest producer of heavy oil from the huge crude deposits in Saskatchewan and Alberta by 1977, when it became the target of a bitter takeover battle pitting the Occidental Petroleum Company against Petro-Canada, which was owned by the Canadian Government.
A third company, the Alberta Gas Trunk Line Company, finally gained control in 1979 when Mr. Nielson sold his family's 20 percent stake for more than $100 million. Mr. Nielson then retired to concentrate on ranching and a range of philanthropic and Mormon activities that maintained his place as one of Wyoming's most prominent citizens.
Mr. Nielson was born on May 26, 1903, in Aetna, Alberta, the son of James and Margaret Nielson, and grew up in Cardston, a Mormon farming center in Alberta 15 miles north of the Montana border. Mr. Nielson graduated from Raymond Agricultural College in Alberta in 1921 and then worked on his father's ranch before going on Mormon missions in England and California from 1924 to 1927.
He borrowed heavily to become a wheat farmer and rancher in 1929 but returned to school when prices plunged, working as a janitor while completing a bachelor's degree in agriculture and economics at the University of Alberta. After moving to Montana in 1935, he worked as a ranch hand, truck driver, power-line rigger and oil salesman before investing in the oil business.
Mr. Nielson married Olive Wood in Cardston in 1928. In addition to Mrs. Bullock, of Cody, he is survived by his wife; two other daughters, Joanne Livingston of Atherton, Calif., and Anne Marie Hales of Cheyenne, Wyo.; two sons, Glenn W. and James E. Nielson, both of Cody, 35 grandchildren and 68 great-grandchildren.
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: HSE (TSX) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (54%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (69%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PETRO-CANADA (66%); HUSKY ENERGY INC (58%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (54%); BUSINESS-INDUSTRY POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS-INDUSTRY POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ENGLAND (69%); WYOMING, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); ASPHALT PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); LOBBYING (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (68%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); WHEAT FARMING (61%); LABOR UNIONS (51%); 

PERSON: NIELSON, GLENN E; FEDER, BARNABY J GLENN E NIELSON (96%); MARGARET RUTH BULLOCK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



138 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Stability in Financial Markets Weakens Treasury Note Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The United States bond market suffered the biggest decline in almost a month yesterday, driving yields to an eight-week high, as signs of stability in world financial markets sapped demand at the Treasury's $12 billion note sale.
"It's a double whammy," said Michael Mullaney, who helps oversee more than $1 billion at Boston Partners Asset Management. "There's a ton of paper hitting the street and stocks look like they're stabilizing -- the flight to quality is not there." 
 The 30-year bond fell 1 23/32 , to 102 20/32 . Its yield, which rises when prices fall, increased to 5.32 percent from 5.21, the highest since Sept. 8. Yields on two-year notes rose 18 basis points, to 4.42 percent, the highest since Sept. 29.
Bonds had rallied throughout September as investors sought the world's safest securities after Japan's recession worsened, Russia devalued its currency and stock markets around the globe tumbled.
That rally faltered after 30-year Treasury yields touched a three-decade low of 4.69 percent on Oct. 5, and have since lost 10 points, or $100 per $1,000 bond. Some investors swapped safer Treasuries for riskier securities, betting they had seen the worst of a global economic slowdown and selling in world stock markets.
The Treasury's $12 billion in 10-year notes was met with poor demand, as the Government failed to draw investor interest for a second day in its quarterly refunding of older securities.
"Some of the global turmoil is less urgent than it was a few weeks ago," said Joshua Feinman, global markets economist at the Bankers Trust Corporation. Adding to the stability in world markets are expectations that Congress is less likely to impeach President Clinton after a stronger-than-expected Democratic showing in Congressional elections. Political instability can erode confidence in financial markets.
"The election was basically status quo, but the end result is that Clinton will probably continue to be our leader," said David Horner, a senior fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company.
At the same time, many investors and traders are declining to make purchases at this week's sale of $38 billion of notes and bills at the Treasury's quarterly refunding.
The Treasury sold the 10-year notes yesterday at a yield of 4.825 percent, above estimates of 4.771 percent prior to the sale. Demand for the securities was below the average for the 10 previous 10-year note sales.
Results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.410
High Yield . . . 4.825%
Low Yield . . . 4.620%
Median Yield . . . 4.760%
Total applied for . . . $19,741,208
Accepted . . . $13,485,708
Noncompetitive . . . $54,863
Interest set at . . . 4 3/4%
 
The 10-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2008.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BANKERS TRUST CORP (65%); BOSTON PARTNERS ASSET MANAGEMENT LP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AUCTIONS (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); DEVALUATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); IMPEACHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



139 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Finds Economy's Growth Slowing

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The economy was growing at a slower pace and inflation was benign at the start of the fourth quarter, the Federal Reserve's latest survey of regional conditions showed.
"The pace of economic expansion moderated in September and October, amid signs of slowing in some sectors," the Fed said today in its latest report, known as the beige book. "Virtually all districts reported that businesses and consumers remained cautious about the economic outlook," the report said. 
 While manufacturing "continued at relatively high levels," most of the Fed's districts reported "signs of softening" in factory activity.
"Three-quarters of the districts indicated that economic turmoil abroad, especially in East Asia, was at least partially responsible for softening demand," the report said.
Earlier this week, an industry report showed that manufacturing in October put in its weakest performance in more than two and a half years.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's factory index fell to 48.3 last month from 49.4 in September -- the lowest since a 47.3 in March 1996 -- as orders, output and exports slowed. The index has held at less than 50 since June, a sign of a decline in manufacturing and slower economic growth.
The Fed's regional outlook is based on reports from its 12 district banks. It is published eight times each year. The latest edition was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Information was collected before Oct. 26.
The report will help form the basis for discussion on interest rate targets at the Nov. 17 meeting of the Fed's policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee.
Amid turbulence in world financial markets, the Fed cut the overnight bank lending rate by a quarter percentage point at its last session on Sept. 29. In a rare between-meeting move on Oct. 15, the Fed also lowered the overnight rate and the discount rate by a quarter-point. Many analysts expect the Fed to continue to lower rates until it is satisfied that the markets have stabilized.
By changing the interest rates it controls, the Fed's actions translate into lower or higher borrowing costs on everything from credit cards to mortgages and business loans -- and influence economic activity, though often with a lag of many months.
In today's report, the Fed also suggested that inflation was not a problem: "Upward pressure on wages and prices remained generally subdued, according to most district reports."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Beige Book Shows Some Weakening Conditions"
A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.
 
Minneapolis -- The economy remained strong with construction a source of strength for the region. Labor demand high.
 
Chicago -- Retailers were cautious about the holiday season as consumer spending was slow. Lenders tightened standards on certain loans.
 
San Francisco -- Manufacturing activity was flat in recent weeks. Businesses faced tighter terms as general economic uncertainty made lenders more cautious.
 
Cleveland -- Economic activity remained strong over all. The industrial sector has softened; labor shortages were reported.
 
Boston -- Economic conditions were mixed. Retailers reported moderate to strong sales growth. Prices were steady; demand for labor was strong.
 
New York - Prospects for job and income losses on Wall Street appear to have dampened consumer confidence. Labor demand was strong.
 
Philadelphia -- Economic activity was steady, as were retail sales. Manufacturers reported a slight decline in demand.
 
Richmond -- The economy advanced at a moderate pace in recent weeks. Service companies were solid while manufacturing remained sluggish.
 
Atlanta -- Factory activity and production were weak. Construction remained strong. Labor demand was high and wages were steady.
 
St. Louis -- The economy operated at high levels. Housing and construction were strong; commercial and industrial lending increased.
 
Kansas City -- Corn and soybean yields came in below expectations. Factory activity was sluggish, but retail sales were firm.
 
Dallas -- Manufacturing and energy industry activity declined, while agricultural conditions remained difficult. Retail sales remained strong.
(Source: Bloomberg News)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (66%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



140 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares Rise, Fade, Recover, With Dow Gaining 76.99

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Apparently buoyed by election results, stock prices jumped early yesterday but then faded after investors showed little enthusiasm for an offering of Government bonds.
The Dow Jones industrial average, up as much as 148 points at one stage, barely managed to stay in positive territory during an afternoon swoon before moving up again in the final hour to finish with a gain of 76.99 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, to 8,783.14. Indexes made up of smaller companies, however, did better. 
 Most analysts seemed to agree that electoral inroads by Democrats -- rare for a Presidential party in midterm elections -- diminished the chances of a market-rattling impeachment process that could result in President Clinton's removal from office.
"There's a feeling that the risk of a nasty impeachment proceeding has gone down a lot," said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "If Republicans had had a successful election, I think Newt Gingrich et al. would have been encouraged to press the impeachment."
A similar note was struck by Lisa Cullen, a strategist at Merrill Lynch.
"I guess it's good news for stocks because it looks like the Republicans won't be able to muster the firepower to impeach Clinton," she said.
Despite the afternoon selloff, which also coincided with release of a Federal survey showing the economy lost momentum in September and October, most stocks posted gains, with indexes dominated by technology and smaller-capitalization stocks faring best.
Various positive forces have converged in recent weeks to encourage stock investors, including signs of stabilization in Brazil, a seemingly serious attack by Japan on its banking problems, a big financial replenishment for the International Monetary Fund and some reassuring inflation and other reports from Washington.
Stocks climbed smartly in all major overseas markets yesterday, with main gauges up 4.12 percent in Japan and 1.96 percent in Brazil. Mexican stocks were up 3.39 percent, Germany's 3.59 percent, France's 2.80 percent, Britain's 2.16 percent and Hong Kong's 1.45 percent.
Wall Street, some analysts suggested, might have benefited early in the session by demand from foreign investors who generally may not have realized that impeachment fever had already diminished here before the election.
J. P. Morgan and American Express, both with significant exposure to overseas turmoil, accounted by themselves for 59 percent of the Dow's rise. Morgan soared 7 5/8, to 101 3/4, nearly 30 points higher than four weeks ago, amid speculation that it might be acquired. American Express climbed 3 9/16 , to 94.
Barton Biggs, chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, on Monday raised his recommended allocation to Japanese stocks on the ground that the depressed economy there had stabilized enough to appeal to investors looking for bargains.
United States Steel, which announced it was cutting operations at its Fairless Works outside Philadelphia by 70 percent because of a flood of imports, rose 1 5/16 , to 26 11/16 , lifting its gain over the last week to 21 percent. Inland and AK Steel each rose more than 5 percent.
Drug stocks slumped as Dura Pharmaceuticals, down 2 5/8, to 9 3/4, failed to win Government approval for its asthma inhaler and was downgraded by Merrill Lynch. Warner-Lambert and Pfizer lost 3 3/4 and 3 1/4, respectively.
Southwest Airlines, a low-cost carrier, gained 7/16 , to 21 9/16 , on word that it plans to begin flights into the New York City area.
Once again, investors focused heavily on smaller companies, with the Nasdaq composite index rising 35.14 points, or 1.96 percent, to 1,823.57, and the Russell 2000 index up 5.40 points, or 1.39 percent, to 392.96.
"We have probably only started the next phase of the outperformance of the small-cap market," said Robert C. Elliott, senior executive vice president of the Bessemer Trust Company. He noted that earnings gains of small- and medium-sized companies had now exceeded those of big companies for three straight quarters.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.83 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 1,118.67, but more than twice as many issues rose as fell -- 333 to 154.
Still, many analysts expressed skepticism that stock prices were headed much higher. "We've got some fundamental profit problems," said Michael Fenollosa, an economist at John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 2,062 stocks rose yesterday and 1,027 fell, with new highs swamping new lows, 82 to 14. Volume rose to 861.2 million shares from 704.3 million on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Oct. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



141 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Deflation is frightening, but toothless, for 90's Americans.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
DEFLATION is scary. The last time prices nose-dived throughout the economy was during the Great Depression. Then Government stood by helplessly as wages and prices plummeted and over a quarter of the labor force stood desperately in unemployment lines.
No wonder, then, that investors cringe at the word. Yet Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, recently warned "that deflation from the Far East is heading our way." Many analysts now echo the deflation theme. Charles W. McMillion, chief economist of MBG Information Services, wrote last week in The New Republic that deflation "could happen again soon." 
 But predictions of deflation amount to little more than blather. The experts who dwell on deflation can point to no data that show prices are generally falling. Nor can they point to evidence that across-the-board price cutting is likely to break out in the future. Most important, deflation has not reached the all-important sinews of labor markets.
Predictions of deflation miss the key difference between today and the 1930's: a Federal Reserve no longer asleep at the monetary switch.
First, the data. This year, as in most other years, prices in some individual industries are falling. Energy prices have dropped almost 10 percent the last year. Commodity prices have dropped by about 20 percent the last year. The prices of raw materials, clothes and other imported goods have also declined, partly in response to the economic collapse of Southeast Asia.
But other prices are more than making up for the slack. Producer prices, excluding energy and food, are rising about 1 percent a year. Consumer prices are rising by about 2 percent a year. These rates are small. But they are nowhere near negative.
Look to the labor market, which drives the formation of prices. Over the last year, wages and salaries have been rising about 4 percent a year. Nothing in economic logic or history suggests that wages will suddenly reverse course. Indeed, even if recession strikes, wages will almost certainly continue to rise, as they have in every recent downturn.
And if wages do not fall, prices will almost certainly not fall either. Labor costs typically account for two-thirds of the cost of producing goods and services. In general, wages and prices move up and down together. They can move in opposite directions, however, in times of rapid gains in productivity. If, say, workers are given the tools to churn out 5 percent more each hour, then the extra output would yield enough new revenue to allow the company to pay workers 5 percent more even without raising prices. The company could even cut prices a few percent and still have enough extra revenue to pass along to workers as higher wages.
But productivity is now rising by less than 2 percent a year. That provides no room for prices to fall if wages continue to rise anywhere near their current 4 percent clip. As Prof. Martin S. Feldstein of Harvard points out, "Only in the extreme case of the economy falling into a deep depression like that of the 1930's would the level of prices actually begin a sustained decline."
Nor are prices falling in any other industrialized economy except Japan. Throughout Europe, prices are rising very slowly. In developing countries, inflation rules nearly everywhere outside of China. Even in the decimated economies of Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand, prices are rising rapidly.
So why the frenzy over deflation? Robert Solow, Nobel laureate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, attributes some of the chatter about deflation to analytical confusion. In virtually every industrialized country, the official task of the central bank is to achieve price stability, or roughly zero inflation. At least since the reign of Paul A. Volcker in the 1980's, Fed chairmen have been measured by their ability to get inflation down. With prices rising by only 2 percent a year, Mr. Greenspan has come close to victory.
But Mr. Solow observes, "if average prices are not changing, then, to a rough approximation, half the prices must be falling, while the other half must be rising" in order to keep the price index relatively level. To invoke the specter of specific price cuts for oil, apparel and computers as harbingers of deflation is, by this argument, to confuse economics with algebra.
The United States has not experienced deflation since the 1930's. But though economic historians continue to debate the underlying cause of the Great Depression, they do not dispute the simple proposition that deflation was then, and will almost certainly be in the future, a monetary event. Translation: prices can only continue to fall if people are given fewer and fewer dollars to spend on good and services. This is the flip side of the commonplace proposition that inflation can rage only if people are given more and more dollars to spend by the Fed. In the 1930's, the Fed committed the fatal mistake of sitting back while banks closed and the supply of money shriveled.
It is inconceivable that the Fed would make the same mistake today. If, as Mr. Greenspan fears, deflation forces drift ashore from Asia, the Fed has an ironclad remedy. It needs only to step on the monetary pedal, as it has already begun to do cautiously by lowering interest rates.
There are lots of economic forces to fear. Recession. Inequality. Productivity slowdown. In each case, living standards are at risk and government cannot perfectly anticipate what to do and when to act. But deflation isn't worth fretting about unless you believe that the United States will suffer a once-in-a-century catastrophe and the Fed will play dumb.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



142 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Hard Money for a Softer Europe;
Leftist Politics Complicates the Job of the Euro's Banker

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Wim Duisenberg will not acquire his full powers for another eight weeks, but he is already enduring his baptism by fire.
As president of the new European Central Bank, Mr. Duisenberg is in charge of setting into operation Europe's single currency, the euro, on Jan. 4. But just when the historic project seemed set for a remarkably smooth start, the ground underneath him has shifted. 
 Even as the new bank is preoccupied with projecting its hard-nosed credibility in world financial markets, Germany's new left-of-center Government is badgering it almost daily to open up the monetary spigots and generate more jobs.
Indeed, Mr. Duisenberg suddenly finds himself playing with a rulebook developed by players who are not around anymore. After years of belt-tightening, a new raft of center-left governments are increasingly eager to lift spending and let their budget deficits nose upward once again.
In a major ideological shift, Germany's new Government, under Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, now exhorts the bank almost daily to reduce interest rates and help stimulate growth.
Germany's new Finance Minister, Oskar Lafontaine, passionately argues that the country's high unemployment stems directly from the austere monetary policies of the Bundesbank, which serves as the model for the European Central Bank.
"Just look at America," Mr. Lafontaine said, referring to the Federal Reserve chairman. "Alan Greenspan has shown that you can simultaneously achieve inflation-free growth and growth in employment."
And Christa Muller, an influential Government adviser who is married to Mr. Lafontaine, said: "The policies of the European Central Bank and the Bundesbank are not sacrosanct. They must be subjected to a certain control."
To be sure, the new bank's independence and its duties are legally enshrined in the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, which laid the ground rules for the euro.
But the political landscape has changed enormously since European leaders signed the treaty. Most countries now have left-of-center governments, and Germany's change in power eliminates the most formidable champion of hard-money policies.
It was Germany, under then-Chancellor Helmut Kohl, that enshrined the new bank's political independence. It was Germany, often to the fury of France, that insisted the bank focus almost entirely on keeping prices stable rather than on promoting economic growth or jobs. And it was Germany that demanded harsh penalties for countries that run high budget deficits.
Indeed, many European economists believe that the gospel of fiscal austerity is losing force. Under the Stability and Growth Pact signed last year by all 11 nations adopting the euro, countries that run high deficits or have mountains of acquired debt are subject to huge penalties.
Yet countries like Italy, which has twice as much debt as the rules allow, are expected to increase Government spending next year. Last month, Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy was forced to step down because he could not muster enough support for his proposed budget cuts.
And Italy is not alone. "You're clearly seeing a shift left in European governments that is triggering a greater willingness to increase spending," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, global economist for Salomon Smith Barney In London.
"I think it is fair to say that the rules of the game have been changed already," said Friedrich Heinemann, senior economist for the Institute for European Economic Research in Mannheim. "Until now, an important element of the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact was Germany's tough position. With Lafontaine now in the Government, the pact has already lost some of its credibility."
At a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Duisenberg brushed aside demands for a policy change. "It's normal for the political side to give suggestions or opinions," he said, "but it would be abnormal if these suggestions were listened to."
A towering man with a shock of white hair and piercing blue eyes, Mr. Duisenberg established his credentials as an anti-inflation hawk as president of the Dutch central bank. There, he locked his own monetary policy to the Bundesbank's. He argues that the only real way to promote job creation is by deregulating the economy.
Indeed, a growing number of experts believe that outspoken pressure from Mr. Lafontaine and other European leaders will merely force Mr. Duisenberg to adopt an even tougher line just to demonstrate his independence.
"Lafontaine would do well to study the example of Bob Rubin, which is to know when to shut up," said Rudiger Dornbush, an economist at M.I.T., referring to United States Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin. "The European Central Bank has to show its independence, and if it is pushed, it will have to shove back extra hard."
But there may be other pressures. Mr. Greenspan has already cut American interest rates in the hope of pre-empting a severe downturn. That has put pressure on Europe and Mr. Duisenberg because it caused the dollar to sink in value against European currencies.
That makes European exports more expensive in many foreign markets and is expected to severely dent European growth in 1999.
Senior German advisers to Mr. Lafontaine have seized on the American moves as a vindication of their own arguments.
"The only question we have raised is whether there is maneuvering room for monetary policy to do something expansionary," said Heiner Flassbeck, Mr. Lafontaine's senior adviser on international economic issues. "This is exactly the question that Alan Greenspan has posed hundreds of times, and he has answered the question by reducing interest rates."
Until January, the formal power of monetary policy will continue to lie with the 11 national central banks. But in practice, the countries are already following a common European policy --and that policy is closely modeled on the Bundesbank.
Indeed, the European Central Bank is governed by a board that includes the presidents of each country's national bank. Most decisions require a majority vote.
As a result, Mr. Lafontaine and Mr. Schroder have exchanged most of their barbs with officials at the Bundesbank. On Thursday, Mr. Lafontaine and Mr. Flassbeck plan to take their case directly to the Bundesbank's concrete fortress in Frankfurt, where members of the executive board will hold their monthly meeting.
But economists say the issues in Europe are more complicated than those in the United States.
Even without pressure from Germany, many countries were already reducing interest rates in preparation for the euro. Rates must be almost equal in all member countries because every country will have the same risk of inflation and currency devaluation.
As a result, countries with historically higher inflation have been systematically cutting rates for several months to bring them in line with those of Germany and France. Ireland, Spain, Italy and Portugal have all slashed their rates several times, and more cuts are expected before the end of the year.
The Bundesbank's basic overnight interest rate, now at 3.3 percent, is already considerably lower than that of the United States. Many economists worry that cutting rates could lead some countries to overheat, igniting inflation.
But amid increasing signs that European growth may slow to less than 2 percent next year, Chancellor Schroder has joined Mr. Lafontaine in putting pressure on both the Bundesbank and the European Central Bank.
"It doesn't only have responsibility for monetary stability but also for economic growth in a sensible way," Mr. Schroder said on Saturday, noting new Government estimates that the German economy will expand only about 2.3 percent in 1999.
"That's damn little, too little for a big offensive on the labor market that is supported solely by economic growth," Mr. Schroder said.
Mr. Lafontaine and other officials have also tweaked the central bankers for their secretiveness and their refusal to reveal the minutes of board meetings. Christian Noe, State Secretary at the Finance Ministry, recently accused the Bundesbank -- and by extenstion, the European Central Bank -- of indulging in "pre-democratic" behavior.
"This isn't the Vatican we're talking about," said one government official, who insisted on anonymity. "No one is questioning the independence of the central bank. We're just raising questions of public interest."
But Europe's central bankers have been far from amused. Jean-Claude Trichet, head of the Bank of France, warned that political leaders risked jeopardizing the euro's credibility.
"Any suggestion that central banks were on the way to losing their independence would affect savers' confidence both in Europe and worldwide," Mr. Trichet said on Monday in Paris.
Jurgen Stark, the Bundesbank's deputy governor, said last weekend that he was already worried about growing budget deficits in Europe.
"Excessive deficits are damaging," Mr. Stark said in a television interview. "The European Central Bank could be forced to react with interest-rate increases."
Politics aside, a growing number of economists believe that Mr. Duisenberg will eventually be driven by economic pressure to reduce rates slightly -- to perhaps 3 percent.
But that may not satisfy people like Mr. Lafontaine, and Mr. Duisenberg has made it clear he has no intention of deviating from his basic concern about price stability.
"The leaders today are different from the ones that signed the Maastricht Treaty, but the fact remains that we still have the treaty," said Mr. Heinemann of the Institute for European Economic Research. "The fact that we have a new Government in Germany doesn't change one letter in the treaty."

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "How Many Ways Can You Say Euro?"
Monetary policy for the new European currency, the euro, which goes into effect on Jan. 4, will be set by the European Central Bank. It consists of an executive board, whose six members will work exclusively for the bank, and the top central bank chiefs from the 11 countries that will participate in the euro.
 
The Executive Board
Appointed by agreement of the political leaders of the European Union, after consulting the European Parliament and national central bankers. Members serve a minimum eight years, except Mr. Duisenberg who has agreed to step aside after four years.
 
WIM DUISENBERG, president of the E.C.B. the Netherlands
CHRISTIAN NOYER, vice president France
EUGENIO DOMINGO SOLANS, Spain
SIRKKA HAMALAINEN, Finland
OTMAR ISSING, Germany
TOMMASO PADOA-SCHIOPPA, Italy
 
National Central Bank Governors
Appointed by their countries and serve a minimum five years.
 
ALFONS VERPLAETSE -- Belgium
HANS TIETMEYER -- Germany
LUIS ANGEL ROJO -- Spain
JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET -- France
MAURICE O'CONNELL -- Ireland
ANTONIO FAZIO -- Italy
YVES MERSCH -- Luxembourg
NOUT WELLINK -- the Netherlands
KLAUS LIEBSCHER -- Austria
ANTONIO JOSE FERNANDES DE SOUSA -- Portugal
MATTI VANHALA -- Finland
Four nations in the European Union -- Britain, Denmark, Greece and Sweden are not participating in the euro for now.
 
(Source: European Central Bank)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); SPAIN (92%); FINLAND (92%); GREECE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; BUNDESBANK; EUROPEAN COMMISSION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; BUNDESBANK; EUROPEAN COMMISSION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); SPAIN (92%); FINLAND (92%); GREECE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (63%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; DUISENBERG, WIM; LAFONTAINE, OSKAR; SCHRODER, GERHARD; NOYER, CHRISTIAN; SOLANS, EUGENIO DOMINGO; HAMALAINEN, SIRKA; ISSING, OTMAR; PADOASCHIOPPA, TOMMASO GERHARD SCHRODER (70%); ROMANO PRODI (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



143 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: October Sales Of Vehicles Still Surprising

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The strength of car and truck sales in October continued to surprise Wall Street analysts and auto industry executives as more figures were released today. October turned out to be one of the strongest months in history and puts the industry on track for its best year in a decade.
"I was looking for strong numbers, and these are stronger than I expected," said David Healy, an auto analyst for Burnham Securities in New York. Mr. Healy noted that the stronger sales came about even as incentives began tapering off from the high levels of last spring and summer. 
 With almost every vehicle manufacturer tallying higher sales this October compared with the month a year earlier, total vehicle sales in the United States for the month totaled 1,368,567 cars and light trucks, a 9.8 percent increase compared with sales in October 1997. Car sales rose 7.1 percent, to 712,407 units; truck sales increased 12.9 percent, to 656,160 vehicles. That put the seasonally adjusted annual selling rate for light vehicles at 16.6 million cars and light trucks for October, just shy of June of this year, when the rate was the highest since August 1987, according to Ward's Automotive Reports.
The General Motors Corporation surprised analysts in making a quicker comeback than expected from last summer's 54-day strike. Instead of increasing sales by 2 percent, as analysts had predicted, G.M. reported today that its sales increased 6 percent in October compared with those in the month a year earlier, to 408,655 cars and light trucks. G.M. light-truck sales totaled 180,212 vehicles, up 6.4 percent, even without the full production of the 1999 models of its large pickup trucks, the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra, which are in their introduction phase after being redesigned. G.M.'s full-size sport utility vehicles, including the Chevrolet Tahoe and GMC Yukon, and front-wheel-drive minivans, sold as the Chevrolet Venture, Oldsmobile Silhouette and Pontiac Montana, had their best October sales in history. Small trucks also had large sales increases. G.M. car sales rose 6.3 percent, to 228,443, on the strength of its midsized line and large cars from Buick and Pontiac. "It looks like G.M.'s recovery from the strike is moving better than they hoped," Mr. Healy said.
For the year, G.M. sales are off about 4 percent. Truck sales are 5 percent higher; car sales are 10 percent lower. Because other auto makers, particularly the Chrysler Corporation, which reported earlier in the week that its October sales increased 20 percent, and foreign brands were turning in stronger-than-expected sales numbers, G.M. came in just shy of its goal for 30 percent market share in October.
In addition, G.M. recognized that it was losing sales because its inventory of vehicles in dealer showrooms remained off about 20 percent from levels in the month a year earlier, said Donald R. DeVeaux, G.M.'s director of North American market analysis. The inventory shortages were most noticeable at G.M.'s largest divisions, Chevrolet and Pontiac, and in their highest-selling models, like the Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Grand Am.
In the meantime, G.M. plants were running at full capacity and the auto maker planned to build 1.5 million cars and trucks in the fourth quarter, more than any fourth quarter in a decade. At the Ford Motor Company, sales of Ford, Mercury, Lincoln and Jaguar vehicles rose 2.1 percent, to 333,522 cars and trucks, on target with analysts' projections but higher than Ford expected at the start of the month. Light-truck sales increased 10.1 percent, to 202,741 vehicles, on the strength of the Ford F-Series pickup, Explorer, Expedition and Lincoln Navigator sport utilities. Car sales declined 8.2 percent, to 130,781 vehicles, because of lower fleet sales. Like G.M., Ford, based on October's strong sales performance, will build 1.1 million cars and trucks -- 25,000 more than originally planned -- in the fourth quarter.
"The industry blew past what we thought it would be," said Michael C. DiGiovanni, G.M.'s chief forecaster, in an interview. "We dodged the bullet of the Asian financial crisis. Now the rest of the economic fundamentals look strong."
Mr. DiGiovanni noted lower interest rates and new products combined with favorable demographics, such as aging baby boomers buying luxury vehicles and Generation X'ers forming households and buying vehicles to meet their needs, bode well for the industry's near future.
"Internally, we're looking at 1999 and wondering if it will be a better year than we thought," he said.
Mr. Healy agreed, noting recent interest rate cuts and future ones would soon show up in car loan rates, "a plus factor for next year's vehicle sales."
"These sales might subside a bit but, barring 20 percent interest rates or $2-a-gallon gasoline, we're not looking for a collapse in sales or a recession," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in October"
Chart shows statistics for vehicles sold in the United States, seasonally adjusted. (pg. C7)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (67%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (67%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; INDUSTRY PROFILES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MINIVANS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE DAVID HEALY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



144 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: French Youths Strike for the Right to Study Hard

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: CHELLES, France, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Thousands of the 2.3 million high-school students in France plan to resume protests against poor study conditions with a demonstration in Paris on Thursday. But at the Lycee Gaston Bachelard in this Paris suburb students are torn about how hard they should keep pushing.
"We've got some promises on paper," said Abdenbi Benammar, 20, a student leader, referring to promised remedies for shortages of teachers and shortcomings in the curriculum made by the Ministry of Education after last month's national protests. "But until we actually see changes made we should keep up the pressure." 
 Sarah Devannes, a classmate, disagreed. "We achieved a lot of things," she said. "We got six teachers' assistants who'll be here in January, and if we continue the strike too long, we'll start losing support."
Discussions like this are going on in schools all over the country after a two-week October vacation that followed some of the biggest school protests since 1995. Then it was university students who were on strike. They wanted better classrooms and study conditions, more teachers, smaller classes and curriculums designed to help them compete for jobs in an economy where many graduates find no jobs waiting for them when they get out of school.
In France these days, with unemployment at 11.7 percent, students are now striking for the right to study harder to be better prepared for the job market.
That is only one of many things about French schools that might amaze Americans. Even in troubled neighborhoods, schools have no metal detectors at the door because guns in France are strictly controlled.
"I've been in teaching for 19 years, and I've never seen a knife flashed in all that time, though I've worked in some pretty tough schools," said Daniel Bach, the principal at the Lycee Bachelard, where 2,000 students from all racial and ethnic groups prepare for the "bac," the baccalaureate diploma that qualifies them to study at university.
Looking at the school, a visitor might ask what there was to strike about. In a neighborhood of single-family houses and gardens next to a housing project, the school has big picture windows and wide, spotlessly clean corridors in four-story buildings organized around a central courtyard where students gather during breaks.
The openness turns out to be one of the problems. "Kids from the neighborhood can come in and sell hashish and other stuff," Mr. Benammar said. "We used to have draftees doing alternative service who helped with administrative work and insured security, but the draft ended this year and we don't have them any more."
So one of the student demands, here as at other schools around the country, was for more supervisory workers and better safety. The Education Minister, Claude Allegre, promised to increase school staffs with part-time students as part of the Socialist Government's national youth employment program.
Another complaint of students here was academic schedules that had scheduled some of them right out of lunch, a problem Mr. Bach laid to computer foul-ups that have since been solved. He discusses problems like these regularly with student representatives who, like Mr. Benammar, tend to be older than their American counterparts.
Students commonly repeat years before passing the national examination thresholds to higher levels of education, and the examinations, particularly for the "bac," are so rigorous that there is little stigma attached to staying back a year or more to prepare for them.
"One of the strains on the system is that nowadays 60 to 65 percent of all students want to go on to university," Mr. Bach said. "It used to be 30 percent. So it's no longer just an elite that wants to continue."
In a country where until a decade or so ago schools were run by a huge bureaucracy centralized in Paris, and providing education is still seen by almost everybody as a state responsibility, students are as apt as their parents to take to the streets to demand solutions to their problems.
Last month, the high-school protests in Paris turned violent when unemployed youths joined student marches and started breaking windows, looting stores and setting cars on fire in scenes reminiscent of the student revolution in the Latin Quarter in 1968.
But the violence this time was an aberration, agreed these students, who seem more preoccupied with fitting into today's global economy and their increasingly competitive society than with changing it.
When Mr. Allegre responded to last month's strikes by promising to lighten the weekly class workload, which keeps many students on the campus here from 8:15 A.M. to 5:15 P.M., at least some of them thought he had missed the point.
"If they cut back the workload too much, we could find that we aren't prepared when we get to university," Miss Devannes said. "They could assume we know math we haven't even studied, and then how would we cope with our courses?"
What exactly the relief in the study load that Mr. Allegre promised would mean was not clear to Muriel Navarro, a history and geography teacher who meets regularly with student representatives more concerned with passing tests than avoiding work.
Remedial study programs are unknown in the state university system, which leaves students to figure out their own deficiencies and make up for them, if necessary.
At the high-school level, according to Mr. Bach (whose ancestors came from Germany, though he says he has not had the time to research whether they were related to Johann Sebastian), it is up to professors and students together to meet diploma requirements.
Worry about that was one of the reasons students at this school decided to strike, he said, after they got back to school in September from summer vacation and found that they were short of 4 teachers out of 170. That meant that some students were unable to sign up for required courses in life sciences and mathematics.
"I had asked the district administration for a replacement for the math teacher last June, when she asked for maternity leave," Mr. Bach said. "But I didn't get one."
Now that Mr. Allegre has promised to recruit 3,000 new substitute teachers in answer to the strikers' demands, Mr. Bach thinks he will get replacements for the ones he is missing. But he says it will be up to them and their students to figure out how to get through the required syllabus by the end of the year.

GRAPHIC: Map of France showing location of Celles: Some students in Chelles have misgivings about the protests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

COMPANY: LYCEE GASTON BACHELARD (CHELLES, FRANCE)

ORGANIZATION: LYCEE GASTON BACHELARD (CHELLES, FRANCE)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE); CHELLES (FRANCE); FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; STRIKES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); METAL DETECTORS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); STRIKES (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (61%); RIOTS (60%); CANNABIS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R DANIEL BACH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



145 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Enlists Russians to Spot Nuclear Smuggling

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
In an effort to prevent nuclear weapons and materials from being smuggled out of Russia, the United States announced plans yesterday to train Russian customs agents in identifying and arresting smugglers.
"The cold war is over, but the weapons are still around," said Rick Galbraith, a policy coordinator at the United States Customs Service in Washington. "The Russians were really good at keeping track of their nuclear weapons." 
 But the economic collapse of Russia has made its cache of weapons and materials more vulnerable to smugglers "who know people who know people who haven't been paid," he said.
Plans include training Russian customs agents at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, the United States Energy Department's "nuclear reservation" in Pasco, Wash. Thirty Russian agents are scheduled to spend two weeks there before the end of this year, learning how to detect nuclear materials and track smugglers. All expenses, including travel, will be covered by the United States.
There are plans to train other Russian agents at subsequent sessions at the Washington reservation. The United States is also planning to give the Russian customs service three X-ray detection vans for use at its borders. The vans, which cost a total of $750,000, can detect nuclear material.
"We want to make their customs people aware of what to look for," said Bonnie Brigman, the manager of the Customs Service's 30-month-old radiation detection program. "We'll be using actual radioactive sources so they can see the way the detection equipment responds."
Customs officials say they have not yet worked out the costs of the program. But the benefit of controlling nuclear materials and weapons of mass destruction in order to keep them from terrorists or unfriendly countries is incalculable, Mr. Galbraith said.
"We had a meeting of the minds," he said, referring to the cooperative agreement between the two countries, which stems from the September meeting of President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin in Moscow. "But we have better financing."
But the real question is "are we doing enough?" said Michael O'Hanlon, a foreign-policy expert and senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, a Washington think tank. Though he praised the cooperative customs-services plan, it is, he said, too little, too late. "We should be protecting nuclear materials at their point of origin," he said. "We shouldn't wait until they reach the borders. We know from drug trafficking that border inspections are not enough."
The United States should be considering "much more radical" plans to control weapons of mass destruction and keep impoverished Russian employees -- from scientists to customs inspectors -- from being tempted to sell them. If necessary, he said, the United States should itself pay Russian employees in return for safeguarding its nuclear materials.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: CUSTOMS SERVICE; PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY (PASO, WASH); ENERGY DEPARTMENT US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (90%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSTOMS SERVICE; PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY (PASO, WASH); ENERGY DEPARTMENT US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (90%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); WEST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; SMUGGLING; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) EXCISE & CUSTOMS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); SMUGGLING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); COLD WAR (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RADIATION DETECTORS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



146 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: CONGRESS -- THE PRESIDENT;
Hiding Smiles, White House Aides Say It's Time to Return to Work

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Out of the exhaustion, relief and controlled euphoria, a White House post-election strategy emerged of putting on a visible show of attending to the nation's business while letting Republicans engage in noisy political bloodletting.
This is a time to remain largely silent, senior officials concluded after the extent of Republican losses in Tuesday's voting became clear. If others want to emphasize that voters have shown that they are fed up with talk of sex, scandal and impeachment, top Administration officials are happy to get out of the way. 
 "Obviously, there is no intention to gloat," said one senior White House official who insisted on anonymity. "Impeachment is still serious business. The worst thing the White House could do is imitate the Republicans and overplay our hand. We're just going to sit back for a few days."
There was a careful effort by senior White House officials not to convey a sense of giddiness about Tuesday's election results, which some Clinton loyalists were suggesting should be read as a vote of acquittal on all charges against the President by his ultimate jury, the electorate.
Officials insisted that Tuesday's voting would have no impact on how the President approached the impeachment inquiry pending in the House. Aides said it was up to Republicans to make the next move, after they sort out the implications of their poor showing.
"Back to work," was the refrain from the President on down.
Mr. Clinton convened a meeting of his senior economic advisers to discuss revamping Social Security, an issue that Democrats played to their advantage during the campaign. At the start of the meeting, Mr. Clinton said the election's message was that the American people wanted elected officials to address pocketbook issues like Social Security, health care, education, the minimum wage.
"I think the American people basically said to all of us, all of us, 'We sent you there to work for us and we want you to find a way to do it, to address the challenges we face and to bring this country together and move this country forward,' " Mr. Clinton said. "I think that was the loud, clear, completely unambiguous message of the election."
Mr. Clinton would not bite on an impeachment question dangled before him.
"That's in the hands of Congress and the American people," he said. "I've said that before; I'll say it again. I have nothing else to say about that."
Beneath their sober demeanor, the President's top aides and advisers were having difficulty concealing their pleasure at the unexpected Republican losses.
"This was a reaffirmation of what we knew before the election," said James Carville, an outside adviser who helped to turn the election into a referendum on Speaker Newt Gingrich as much as on the President's private morality. "The public knew where the Republicans wanted to take them -- down the road of scandal and impeachment -- and they clearly said they didn't want to go with them. That's the real point."
Clinton aides involved in scandal control would say only that they hoped Republicans would read the results as a public order to conclude quickly the impeachment inquiry scheduled to begin before the House Judiciary Committee this month.
Republican leaders said the inquiry would continue as planned, but there was a recognition that voters interviewed at the polls expressed a clear preference for ending the matter quickly.
Jim Nicholson, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, suggested that the inquiry might be accelerated in the wake of Tuesday's voting but that no decision had been made on how to proceed.
Mr. Nicholson acknowledged that the results were heartening for the White House, saying, "I would expect the President is probably feeling pretty chipper this morning."
No one who has worked for Mr. Clinton for any period of time is under the illusion that one election -- even one as surprising and favorable as this one -- will end the President's problems at home or abroad.
In addition to impeachment, the President must still cope with the threat from Iraq, the follow-through to the Israeli-Palestinian talks, Kosovo and the continuing global economic crisis. On domestic matters, even though the Republicans have been weakened, there is still no bipartisan consensus on Social Security revision, tax policy, education spending, tobacco legislation or health care.
And despite the good fortunes of Democratic candidates from California to New York, Mr. Clinton still does not enjoy the trust of a majority of the electorate. Exit polls indicated that while about 60 percent of the public approved of the job he was doing as President, an equal number did not approve of his personal morality or behavior.
"After all the ups and downs of the past six years," said Rahm Emanuel, a senior White House political adviser for six years until leaving last month, "nobody is acting giddy or ebullient today. The White House staff is a very sober, very serious, very battle-tested group. They've seen good and they've seen bad, and they know impeachment is a very serious matter."
Although White House denizens were disciplined about not interpreting the election results, the one race they could not help talking about was the contest for Minnesota governor, won by a former professional wrestler, Jesse (The Body) Ventura.
John Podesta, the scrawny White House chief of staff, said that henceforth his nickname would no longer be Skippy, but rather John (The Body) Podesta.
And the President, asked at the Social Security meeting about Mr. Ventura's election, said, "I think that you're going to have a lot of politicians spending time in gyms now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) PRESIDENT'S PRIVATE (96%); WHITE HOUSE (78%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) WHITE HOUSE (78%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); SCANDALS (71%); ETHICS (70%); ACQUITTAL (67%); SEX SCANDALS (56%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



147 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA CANNOT PAY ITS FOREIGN DEBTS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The Russian Government said today for the first time that it will not pay its foreign debts next year, and will seek to renegotiate the loans.
Today's announcement is just the latest in a litany of familiar setbacks here that includes a collapsing currency, a yawning budget deficit and a deteriorating economy. 
 But today the Government also acknowledged another startling indicator of its troubles: last month it had a meager two-week to three-week supply of food. The Government said it has taken steps to restock its national cupboard, including an appeal to the United States and Europe for food and financing.
Russia's attempt to renegotiate its loans from foreign lenders and countries is an important test of its ability to maintain some credibility with the West. A Russian default on foreign loans would make it that much harder for many years to come for a cash-starved Russia to receive credits.
Russia owes about $3 billion this year in foreign loans and another $17 billion is due next year. The debt includes government-backed credits to Russia, payments due to the International Monetary Fund, loans coming due that were made to the old Soviet Union, as well as more recent borrowings from private banks and long-term bonds sold to Western investors.
At first Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov held open the possibility that the Government would find a way to pay its debts.
But the Primakov team soon found itself overwhelmed by the economic crisis. Seeded with Communists, social democrats and free market supporters, the coalition Government has produce a program of only vague economic measures.
Mr. Primakov's failure to make tough decisions to close the budget deficit and advance market reform has cost it, at least temporarily, the support of the I.M.F.
The fund has criticized Mr. Primakov's most recent plan as a step backward from economic reform, making it virtually impossible that the Kremlin will receive the next $4.3 billion disbursement in assistance before the end of the year.
And without Western aid, the Government's cash crunch has become that much worse.
"There is no chance of receiving money from the West," said Sergei Kiriyenko, the former Prime Minister who was ousted by Mr. Yeltsin last August. "And as a result Russia will not be able to pay all of its foreign debt next year."
Today Yuri Maslyukov, a Communist who was given responsibility for economic policy under Mr. Primakov, acknowledged as much.
"We must pay $17.5 billion next year," Mr. Maslyukov said. "This year we have to pay only $3.5 billion. But both tasks are extraordinary ones for our weakened economy."
Mr. Maslyukov said Russia had two possible responses. It could take draconian steps to pay off the debts at the expense of clamorous Russian industries, interest groups and needy Russians.
"Or we should come to terms with our creditors, reach an agreement with them that they will restructure our debt," Mr. Maslyukov said. "We will be tackling the second task."
Still, like much of the Government's economic program, Mr. Maslyukov was short on details today. At a news conference he did not say which types of loans the Government would try to renegotiate or what terms they would seek. Generally, the restructuring of loans involves deferring principal payments, lowering interest rates and lengthening the term of the loan.
He also did not say if Russia would simply default if it failed to come to terms with its lenders. The choice is not an easy one, for the Russian Government must continue its payments to the I.M.F. to maintain its good standing with the fund.
Mr. Kiriyenko suggested today that the Government should begin talks on renegotiating former Soviet debt.
But Mr. Kiriyenko clearly has a dim view of Mr. Primakov's ability to direct economic policy. He said the Government's most recent set of economic measures was a profile in political cowardice that was aimed primarily at papering over divisions within its own ranks.
Mr. Maslyukov, not surprisingly, put it differently. He said the Government was merely trying to cope with the mess that Mr. Kiriyenko and Russia's market reformers left behind.
But even Mr. Maslyukov acknowledged that the combination of state intervention, subsidies and printing of money that the current Government had proposed did not constitute a strategy.
"This is not a program," he said. "We are speaking of measures that must be taken today and tomorrow."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CREDIT; CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOOD; SHORTAGES; FOREIGN AID PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); BOND ISSUES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); BONDS (71%); POLITICS (70%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN) YURI MASLYUKOV (90%); YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (90%); SERGEI KIRIYENKO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



148 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Landscape Shifts

BYLINE: By Bob Herbert 

 BODY:
Some unsolicited advice for the Republican Party: Give up on the politics of meanness. It's killing you.
And for the Democrats: Forget about running away from blacks and Hispanics. You hide from those constituencies at your peril. 
 And for politicians from both parties: The voters want you to conduct yourselves with a little dignity. So stop the name-calling and the lying and the frat-boy behavior. Grow up.
The post-Clinton era is fast approaching, and the public is in the mood for straight arrows. So the likes of Al D'Amato and Carol Moseley-Braun are being shown the door, and quieter types -- Charles Schumer in New York, for one, and the aptly named Gray Davis in California -- are receiving warm welcomes.
I'm sure Newt Gingrich doesn't get it. He's been all over television since Tuesday night trying somehow to blame his party's poor showing on the media's obsession with the Lewinsky scandal. Never mind that the Speaker himself is the driving force behind the effort to impeach the President, or that he was the one who authorized the G.O.P.'s desperate last-minute advertising blitz designed to capitalize on the scandal.
The whole thing has backfired. Public sentiment has been clear from the beginning: Do not impeach the President. But Mr. Gingrich suffers from the handicap of being tone-deaf while battling against a President with perfect political pitch.
"My view is that impeachment will not happen," Mr. Schumer said yesterday. "My sense is that while Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott would not admit it publicly because they have the extreme right looking over their shoulder, they are both astute politicians and they realize they made a mistake, and they are going to find a graceful way to come to a denouement."
In other words, a deal. The irony is that Mr. Gingrich, having miscalculated so badly, now has to worry about being bounced from his post as Speaker by angry Republican colleagues.
As for the Democrats, when the going got tough they started looking for the minorities. It wasn't too long ago that an awful lot of Democratic politicians were trying to shake off what they saw as the stigma of the party's association with blacks and Hispanics, especially blacks. They acted as if soccer moms cast the only votes that counted.
How successful was this strategy? Well, the next thing you knew both houses of Congress and most of the nation's governorships were in the hands of the Republicans.
When Bill Clinton's troubles threatened to make matters worse, black and Hispanic voters started looking a lot more attractive. Suddenly they were being courted again.
Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist Poll, summed up the matter nicely: "When Democrats get their clocks cleaned, it's because they're not getting the turnout in urban areas."
It's early, but we may be at the start of a significant political advance. The Democrats, less liberal than a few years ago, are regrouping. They are talking again about unifying disparate constituencies around issues that resonate widely -- education, jobs, Social Security, health care. A stronger economy, which tends to ease the hostility between groups, makes that kind of goal easier to accomplish.
"The average American doesn't like divisiveness," said Mr. Schumer. "And they are tired of this idea where people on each side of the aisle yell at each other all day long and nothing gets done."
In his acceptance speech, Mr. Schumer said: "Now, as we enter the 21st century and face ever-increasing global competition, competition that can make or break America, we cannot afford division, whether it's between race, sexual orientation, geographic region or ideology."
The Republican Party, on a roll for awhile, is threatened by all of those divisions and nobody sees a way out. The mindless intolerance of the far right is a plague that serves as a perpetual check on the power of the party's more progressive forces, which are the forces with the widest appeal. The most successful Republicans are the big state governors who have escaped the right-wing plague, at least for the time being.
But in Congress Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Lott have been unable to get their act together. Which has been a godsend for the Democrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ETHICS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); IMPEACHMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



149 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
No Third Term!

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the wake of their midterm triumph, the permanent campaigners in the White House must be thinking: Will nobody rid us of this troublesome 22d Amendment? Why should superpopular Bill Clinton be denied the chance to run for a third term?
That was some shellacking the G.O.P. took this week. Let us count the lessons: 
 1. Not all politics is local. This was an election nationalized by the Impeachment Issue, no matter what exit pollsters report. Despite hand wringing predictions of rampant apathy and turnoff, midterm turnout was 38 percent of the voting-age public. That is as high as the controversial Agnew-driven campaign of 1970.
There is no blinking away the fact that this was a referendum on Clinton conduct. This year, core voters of both parties as well as swing voters were motivated by the fear or hope of removing the President. The difference in most close races that Democrats won was sympathy for Clinton. Which means:
2. The majority of Americans who care enough to vote do not believe that lying under oath about sexual matters -- by itself -- justifies removing this President from office. The minority can grumble about how the Clinton example undermines the judicial system, or argue that good times should not justify bad acts, but the majority rules. Which means:
3. If the President is to be called to account, Congress and the Independent Counsel must come up with significant new evidence of a pattern of abuse of power. The unwritten rule at Justice is that no indictments should be brought before an election, a custom that Ken Starr followed. If he has other cases or criminal information that will reveal abuse of power or tampering with witnesses, this month is the time to indict. If the Supreme Court thinks that government lawyers cannot act as personal attorneys, this is the time to force Bruce Lindsey to talk.
The House Judiciary Committee will proceed in an orderly way, breaking down previous stonewalling, but it must present new evidence of wrongdoing beyond Monica. (A Clinton-appointed judge has in effect O.K.'d Clinton fund-raising from Chinese intelligence sources, and Clinton Justice is happy not to appeal his egregious ruling. That travesty bears a close Judiciary look.)
4. The religious right would be wise to let economic conservatives take the G.O.P. wheel. The statehouse victories of the Bush Boys in Texas and Florida and George Pataki in New York suggest that tax cuts and attention to local schools butter more political parsnips than an aggressive assertion of traditional values.
Swing voters are evidently not troubled by swingers. There's a respected place for moralists and religionists in the Republican vehicle; their principled resistance to the corrupting gambling epidemic will, I hope, shame G.O.P. fat cats greedy for casino bucks. But if races in 2000 are to be won, social conservatives cannot be in the driver's seat.
5. The flip side of women voters' condoning Clinton's conduct with a subordinated tut-tut is the practical end of sexual harassment law as we know it. Paradoxically, nobody will have done more than Bill Clinton for the macho predator, or will ruin more cases for trial lawyers out to blackmail corporate executives.
6. Idealism lives. The Democratic victory that did my heart good was the squeaker won by Senator Russell Feingold in Wisconsin. That new Don Quixote demonstrated how a campaign finance reformer could win by running against soft money and practicing what he preached.
Feingold's example gave new life to fund-raising reform, which should be handled both retrospectively though investigation of the Asian connection and prospectively through legislation next year. His Republican partner on this issue, Senator John McCain -- with his 70 percent blowout victory in Arizona -- now becomes the dark horse to challenge front-runner Bush.
Finally, 7. The pendulum of politics swings faster than ever. Remember how Clinton soared in '93, collapsed in '94, came back in '96, crashed this summer, came back this fall? Do you really think that pattern will fail to repeat next spring?
Hence, loathed Melancholy; cheer up, droopy right-wingers. Regroup around new leaders, challenge the President to veto your tax cuts, and watch your heads -- here comes that pendulum back again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: G O P (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: G O P (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WITNESSES (87%); INDICTMENTS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (76%); ETHICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JUDGES (71%); LAWYERS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); TAX LAW (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



150 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK STATE -- THE SENATOR-ELECT;
Looking Jubilant, if Bleary-Eyed, Schumer Sets His Priorities for the Senate

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
Still exultant from his victory in the bruising Senate race, Representative Charles E. Schumer said yesterday that education, health care and campaign finance reform would be among his top priorities in Washington next year, and he vowed to keep his family in Brooklyn because he did not want to lose touch with his constituents.
In the first of several days in which Mr. Schumer plans to crisscross the state thanking voters, the nine-term Democratic Congressman greeted commuters near his home in Park Slope, held a lengthy news conference in Manhattan, made a surprise appearance at a teachers' union meeting and read the top-10 list on "Late Show With David Letterman." 
 Looking exuberant, even if his eyes were a bit bloodshot from weariness, Mr. Schumer called his 9 percentage point victory over Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato "a humbling and awesome experience" and said he was looking forward to relaxing this weekend with his wife, Iris, and two daughters, Alison and Jessica.
Asked if he planned to move his family to Washington, Mr. Schumer, 47, said no, partly because they love their Park Slope home and partly because he was worried about becoming disconnected from New Yorkers and their concerns. He said he plans to continue sharing a Washington apartment with three other members of Congress while commuting home on weekends.
"One of the nice things, I think, I hope, I pray, about being Senator is that I can sort of keep my same life style," he said. "I learned a lesson a while back. The Congress members who live in Washington lose touch with the struggles and the dreams of our citizens far more quickly than those who live back in their districts."
Mr. D'Amato, a Republican in his third term, held a brief news conference yesterday morning in the parking lot of the Hilton Hotel and Towers in Manhattan, where he spent the night. The Senator, 61, said he had not made up his mind about what he plans to do once he leaves office.
"It's been a great honor," Mr. D'Amato said, "it's been a great privilege, it's been a great thrill to be Senator from this great state. I've tried to make a difference and I think we have accomplished a lot."
Mr. Schumer began his morning with a spate of television interviews, after which he walked Alison, who is 7, to her bus stop, trailed by a gaggle of photographers, reporters and two New York City police detectives serving as bodyguards.
At a meeting of the United Federation of Teachers in lower Manhattan, Mr. Schumer got a standing ovation from several hundred teachers when he chided Mr. D'Amato for having attacked the teacher's union early in the campaign.
"I think we have taught a lesson or two to those who would kick around teachers," he said.
In the late afternoon, Mr. Schumer taped a segment for Mr. Letterman's show titled, "Top 10 Things on Chuck Schumer's To-Do List." No. 8: "Learn how to say 'Pataki' without giggling." No. 3: "Endorse new Starbucks beverage line: The Chuck-accino."
And No. 1: "Change my name to Chucky (The Body) Ventura," a reference to the former professional wrestler, Jesse (The Body) Ventura, who was elected Governor of Minnesota on Tuesday.
During a 40-minute session with reporters, Mr. Schumer was asked whether he thought Tuesday's election, in which the Democrats picked up several House seats, amounted to a referendum on President Clinton and the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
"I think there was a feeling among New Yorkers and among Americans that there were some in Congress, particularly on the Republican side, that would rather spend time debating the Lewinsky affair than debating education and debating H.M.O.'s, and I think that hurt the Republican Party," he replied.
Mr. Schumer, along with a minority of members of the House Judiciary Committee, voted against bringing impeachment proceedings against the President. He said yesterday that he had not decided what he would do if the House votes to impeach the President -- which, after Tuesday's elections, is considered less likely to happen. An impeachment vote in the House would send the issue to the Senate, which would serve as the jury over the President's fate.
Mr. Schumer said he had six priorities for his first year in the Senate: improving public schools and making all college tuition deductible; bringing jobs to upstate communities; improving health insurance; bolstering the Social Security system; expanding gun control, and revamping the nation's campaign finance system.
The New York Senate race was the most expensive in the country this year, with Mr. Schumer having spent $13 million and Mr. D'Amato $20 million by mid-October. Asked if he regretted the campaign's high price tag, Mr. Schumer said: "No. I won."
"But I regret that the system is the way it is," he continued. "The way to deal with the system is not to unilaterally disarm, but rather to change the system so that one side doesn't have all these big megaweapons and the other side doesn't have any."
Mr. Schumer said he spoke yesterday morning to Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Republicans who supported Mr. D'Amato, to discuss state and city issues. He said he plans to meet with Mr. Pataki in the coming week to discuss ways of strengthening the upstate economy.
Mr. Schumer said he wished the campaign could have been more positive in tone. But he said he thought that in the final days of the race, voters had heard his message on education, Social Security and other issues.
"The best way to combat the cynicism of young people, and everybody in America, is to actually pass things that make people's lives better," he said. "And that's what I'm going to do."

GRAPHIC: Photo: RISING EARLY TO GREET THE DAY -- Representative Charles E. Schumer met a Brooklyn neighbor with the enthusiasm of a man still campaigning. He also made time to walk his daughter Alison to the bus stop. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (69%); POLICE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) CHARLES SCHUMER (94%); DAVID LETTERMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



151 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 ELECTIONS: THE STATES -- INITIATIVES;
From Same-Sex Marriages To Gambling, Voters Speak

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 4

 BODY:
In a vote expected to have national reverberations, Washington State residents dealt a stinging defeat to state-sponsored affirmative action. Voters in five Western states gave a resounding yes to the medical use of marijuana, while Alaska and Hawaii voters said a clear no to the idea of same-sex marriages.
Massachusetts and Arizona voters approved public financing of political campaigns, while Colorado and Washington rejected proposals to criminalize late-term abortions. And Oregon, becoming the first state to do away with polling places altogether, will conduct elections entirely by mail. 
 These were some of the highlights of votes on more than 200 initiatives and proposed constitutional amendments that were on state ballots on Tuesday. Supporters hail such initiatives as popular democracy in action, but critics call them a potentially dangerous subversion of representative government. Whatever its merits or flaws, the initiative process was very much in action on Tuesday in 16 states, perhaps most notably here in Washington, where voters also made theirs the first state in the nation to require annual minimum-wage increases linked to the inflation rate, and in California, where voters contended with a dozen major questions.
In California, a proposal to raise cigarette taxes by 50 cents a pack and dedicate the money to early childhood and prenatal care programs, bitterly opposed by the tobacco industry, had passed by such a thin margin that it was probably headed for a recount. And in a battle that became the most expensive fight ever waged over a state initiative, the voters ignored an advertising campaign by Nevada casinos and broadly backed the expansion of casino gambling on Indian tribal lands in California. They also passed an initiative to spend $9.2 billion on measures to reduce crowding in the state's public schools and to repair aging classrooms.
In all, voters nationwide passed 37 of the 61 initiatives and popular referendums before them, a higher percentage of yes votes than in any other election this decade. Some of the big winning issues were medical marijuana, campaign-finance reform and gambling, while the big losers included doctor-assisted suicide, tax credits for private school tuition, a late-term abortion procedure that opponents call partial birth abortion, and same-sex marriages.
"The voters addressed the tough issues that elected officials have been unwilling to deal with, as well as voted down those reforms they weren't ready for," said M. Dane Waters, the president and founder of the Initiative and Referendum Institute, a nonpartisan group that tracks the votes and generally supports the initiative process.
But others said that many of the measures that passed were misleading to the voters, and that on no issue was there more debate about the meaning of the initiative than on Washington state's Proposition 200, which passed with 58 percent of the vote and will ban many state-supported forms of affirmative action originally enacted to remedy discrimination.
Voters on Tuesday were asked whether government should be "prohibited from discriminating or granting preferential treatment based on race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin" in public employment, education and contracting.
They said yes by a wide margin, making Washington the second state, after California, to put such language into law.
"It means that America is taking a great step forward to looking beyond race and minimizing its importance, rather than dwelling on it and magnifying its importance," said John Carlson, chairman of the group sponsoring the initiative. "It also, I think, will hasten the transition of affirmative action from a program based on race and ethnicity and occasionally gender to a program that is based on people's circumstances."
But the vote, far from clarifying the issue, is certain to spark lawsuits, as supporters of affirmative action argue that programs intended to provide equal opportunity for racial minorities or women do not constitute preferential treatment. They also point to polls indicating that while people endorse the language in measures like Proposition 200, which was taken from the Civil Rights Act of 1964, they will say no when asked whether they wish to eliminate affirmative action.
In any event, the vote in Washington is clearly a boost to opponents of affirmative action and is likely to spur efforts to get similar measures on the ballots in other states.
Gay rights measures were defeated in several states. Colorado residents rejected a proposal to grant homosexuals civil rights protection against discrimination. Hawaii voters gave the Legislature authorization to overturn a court ruling and ban same-sex marriages, while Alaskans voted 2 to 1 in favor of a constitutional amendment that defines marriage as a union between one man and one woman.
Voters in South Portland, Me., passed an ordinance to ban discrimination based on sexual orientation, but in three other cities -- Fayetteville, Ark.; Fort Collins, Colo.; and Ogunquit, Me. -- such measures were defeated. The issue was especially charged in Fort Collins, which is near Laramie, Wyo., the city where Matthew Shepard, a gay man, was beaten and tied to a fence. Mr. Shepard was transferred to a hospital in Fort Collins, where he died.
"We recognize that the struggle for full equality is a long-term one," said Kerry Lobel, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. "And win or lose in Hawaii and Alaska, we will continue to fight for full equality, including the freedom to marry, until we succeed."
The battle over California's proposed cigarette tax remained remarkably close this evening; with all the precincts reporting, 3,550,483 people voted for the tax, while 3,537,278 voted against it. A recount was almost certain in what has been dubbed the "Marlboro vs. Meat head" battle, pitting tobacco companies against a coalition led by Rob Reiner, the actor whose character in the "All in the Family" television series was nicknamed Meathead.
In other votes, Michigan residents rejected a proposal to legalize doctor-assisted suicide, and South Carolinians chose to remove a 103-year-old passage in their Constitution that forbids marriage between a white and a black. The United States Supreme Court has already found it to be unenforceable.
In Iowa, voters agreed to add the phrase "and women" to the constitutional guarantee that all men "are, by nature, free and equal, and have certain inalienable rights." Floridians voted solidly to let counties impose waiting periods on firearms sold at gun shows. And voters in Massachusetts and California rejected efforts to block deregulation of the electric utility industry.
In what is perhaps a reflection of Americans' positive perceptions about the economy, voters approved a record total of $20 billion in bond measures for schools and infrastructure projects like water and sewer line improvements. Sports stadiums in Denver, San Diego and Cincinnati were also approved.
In one of the more unusual local issues to make it to the ballot box, voters in Newport, Me., rejected an ordinance that would have punished women for publicly displaying their breasts.
The dispute began when a woman in that town got into the habit of mowing her lawn without a shirt, prompting complaints by her neighbor to the local authorities that she was violating decency laws. Maine law prohibits display of genitals or commission of sex acts in public, but town officials ruled that breasts were not genitals and that lawn mowing was not a sexual act, so they said they could not charge the woman with breaking any law. That prompted the irate neighbor to get enough signatures to put the measure on the ballot, but it failed.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Area for Slot Machines Widened
 KANSAS CITY, Mo., Nov. 4 (AP) -- Voters in Missouri decided on Tuesday to legalize slot machines on casinos floating in artificial basins, with 55 percent of the 1.54 million people who voted on it backing the measure.
Such gambling was previously restricted to riverboat casinos on the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: TAX PROPONENT -- A recount of votes on a proposal to raise California's cigarette tax is likely. The actor Rob Reiner fought for its passage. (Associated Press)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); CALIFORNIA; OREGON; ARIZONA; MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOMOSEXUALITY; FINANCES; ABORTION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; BIRTHS; MARRIAGES; TAXATION ELECTIONS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CASINOS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (89%); ABORTION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); TUITION FEES (72%); HERBAL MEDICINE (72%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); SMOKING (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); GAMING (69%); TOBACCO MFG (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); INFLATION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); SUICIDE (50%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



152 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Election '98;
Counting Winners and Losers

 BODY:
It was an Election Day that had a bit of everything. Senate bullies like Alfonse D'Amato and Lauch Faircloth were humbled. Earnestness triumphed in forms ranging from bland (George Pataki) to the slightly nerdy (Russell Feingold). Some sons (Skip Humphrey) were setting, but some (see Bush, George W., and Bush, Jeb) were rising. A party long regarded as being on life support (the Democrats) came tap-dancing out of intensive care. A nation that seems never to weary of seeing Newt Gingrich get his comeuppance watched him pile chips on the impeachment card and then let Hillary Rodham Clinton sweep them off the table.
The question, of course, is what lessons to draw from this variegated show so full of suspense, upsets and reversals of party fortune. That is no simple matter, for a midterm election lacks the focusing prism of a Presidential contest. This was an election that touched on power alignments between and within the parties, on voter attitudes, on candidates for the new millennium, on campaign finance and, of course, on impeachment. 
 Like all midterm elections, this one occurred under the shadow of its most prominent non-candidate. The paradox of Bill Clinton's personal flaws and political resilience may never be fully explained, but this campaign season documents it anew. Although some Democrats shunned him, Mr. Clinton made 130 appearances, and Mrs. Clinton, often claiming the more high-profile spots, made about 100. A Democratic disaster would have made them pariahs within their own party. Now they emerge with as much clout as could be summoned for a White House with such a troubled history.
Mr. Gingrich is thinking wishfully when he insists there is no message about impeachment to be gleaned from the G.O.P.'s loss of five House seats and key Senate races. The House results, in particular, suggest that the public has done a sophisticated job of balancing its disapproval of Mr. Clinton as a person and its desire for continuity and a Congress that works. By reducing the Republican majority in the House, the voters gave Mr. Clinton the leverage to shop for a censure deal. The chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Henry Hyde, may be in a stronger position to stand up to Mr. Gingrich now and also to demand that Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel, deliver all the evidence he plans to release once the hearings resume. Mr. Starr, for his part, would be deeply foolish not to see the public impatience expressed by the election results.
Mr. Hyde has said that the outcome of the impeachment process must be backed by a public majority. The overall message of this election and the accompanying polls is that a two-thirds majority has already congealed. It wants a formal condemnation of Mr. Clinton for lying under oath and demeaning his office. But it also wants him to continue in office and for the Republican Congress to engage him on issues that stirred the voters.
The Candidates
 For conservatives, this election may come to be regarded as a stylistic watershed. The generation of "Contract With America" warriors who came roaring into power four years ago is already going out of fashion. The new trend is on the warm side of mellow. The public rewarded Republicans who were in touch with their inner environmentalist, and shunned those who crusaded for anything more disruptive than putting computers in the classrooms.
Former Representative Robert Dornan of California, a ripsaw reactionary, was trounced in a comeback bid. Gov. Fob James of Alabama showed that even in the Bible Belt it is possible to thump the Good Book too hard. After losing the Florida governorship four years ago as an ideological conservative, Jeb Bush won this time by defending battered women and promising to restore "compassion" to welfare services for children. Jeb's brother George W. pioneered this sort of politics in Texas, where he won re-election as Governor and the status of undeclared Presidential front-runner. In short, these Bushes ran full bore on the "kinder and gentler" theme that their father talked about in his 1988 acceptance speech, but never pursued consistently.
The idea that voters are rewarding candidates who display good manners and an ability to play well with others does not explain Minnesota, where the electorate rejected the sons of Walter Mondale, Orville Freeman and Hubert Humphrey and settled on Jesse (the Body) Ventura, a former professional wrestler. Governor-elect Ventura does, however, come from a profession where sudden transformations from villain to hero are an everyday occurrence. He too may have no trouble moving from body slams to a thousand points of light.
The Voters

 In many recent elections the public, pollsters and commentators have gotten used to outcomes determined by the militant Republican core and by the wedge issues of the Christian right. Something different happened on Tuesday. Some key races were swung by moderate women and traditional Democratic minority groups and by middle-income suburban voters who had been behavioral Republicans. This emergent coalition may be impermanent, but it overwhelmed the faction animated by school prayer and flag-burning.
Nationally, according to Bill Schneider of CNN, a quarter of the Democratic vote came from those he called the "new rich." These are people making over $50,000 a year. In all likelihood, the Republicans had pulled them in the past with economic issues. This year two-thirds of them opposed impeachment, liked Mrs. Clinton and disliked Mr. Gingrich, and they moved into the Democratic column. The Republicans, always weak with women, remained tied to the abortion issue. This election showed that moderate swing voters consider pro-choice the mainstream stance. They soundly rejected late-term abortion bans in Washington and Colorado. In California's gubernatorial race, the Republicans' Dan Lungren lost in large part because he is staunchly opposed to abortion rights.
The Republicans who flourished, such as Governor Pataki and Gov. John Rowland of Connecticut, positioned themselves as pro-business politicians who stand apart from G.O.P. orthodoxy on abortion and other social issues. That stance pleased most voters, including women, in the center, and also made it harder for their Democratic opponents to label them part of the Republican fringe.
The Republican Leadership
 With the public, sometimes you can spin away a disaster and sometimes you cannot. But it is the Republican politicians whom Newt Gingrich and Trent Lott have to worry about. Today they were getting the first whiff of mutiny from the Republican Congressional bunkers. The back-benchers are now looking on some of their leaders as losers and wondering if they have misread the public mood.
At bottom, the voters refused to fatten the Republican majorities of a do-nothing Congress. Mr. Gingrich; the majority leader, Dick Armey; the majority whip, Tom DeLay, and Representative John Boehner of Ohio marched their stalwart Contract conservatives into smaller and smaller circles, alienating the voter-rich political middle.
From shutting down the Government in 1995 to attaching abortion caveats to United Nations money, this group moved toward the fringe. Issues like patients' rights, better public education and secure Social Security were lost in their small-bore debates. Anti-gay rhetoric and anti-Clinton advertising at the end of the campaign left the impression that only white, straight Christians need apply for G.O.P. membership. Senator Orrin Hatch acknowledged Tuesday that to flourish, his party now had to "get off its dime" and stop ignoring women, minorities and Hispanics. But Mr. Gingrich has a more immediate image problem within his own party. He marched into the Speakership like T. Rex. He cannot now afford to be seen as Wiley E. Coyote.
 The Money
 We are always shopping for encouraging news about campaign finance reform. Here is some. In Wisconsin, Senator Russell Feingold was re-elected despite his refusal to let his own allies flood Wisconsin with television ads financed by tainted soft money. Less noticed was the impressive victory of initiatives in Arizona and Massachusetts creating a system in which candidates who agree to limit campaign donations and spending receive public financing for their campaigns.
The shrinkage of the Republican majority in the House means that supporters of the Shays-Meehan soft-money ban will probably have more backing than ever in the next year. Richard Gephardt, the minority leader, should make its passage one of the Democrats' highest priorities. In the Senate, Mr. Lott would be wise to regard this year as a learning experience for a relatively new majority leader. The Republicans raised more soft money than the Democrats, and then handed the spending of it to Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who never met a vendetta he didn't like. He withheld the money from a fellow Republican, Representative Linda Smith, in the state of Washington, where she lost a Senate race to the incumbent, Patty Murray.
Alfonse D'Amato's defeat removes one of Capitol Hill's most devoted collectors of special-interest money and replaces him with Charles Schumer. New York's new Senator has the potential not only to vote for reform but to lead the fight in enacting it. There is plenty to reform.
According to Common Cause, the national parties raised $162 million in soft money. That is more than double the sum of four years ago, and it suggests that in the next election the parties could be heading toward a new record of $500 million in soft money if there is no reform to head them off.
That kind of money represents a continuing threat to the integrity of American elections and casts a pall over everyone's enjoyment of the festival of democracy. For even though many good candidates and causes prevailed on Tuesday and the nation may have moved a significant step toward resolving the Clinton scandals and the impeachment crisis, the fact remains that only 37 percent of eligible voters took part in the election. We have to believe that more voters would participate if they saw the parties as unbought and corruption-free. The progressive shift in this Congress's membership and the damage to the G.O.P. leadership moves the nation a tiny but important step toward an Election Day that will be as clean as it is lively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; FINANCES; ETHICS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILLENNIUM (71%); WITNESSES (64%); DANCE (56%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S NEWT GINGRICH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



153 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Get Early Boost From Election but Fade
Apparently buoyed by election results, stock prices jumped early but then faded after investors showed little enthusiasm for an offering of Government bonds. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, up as much as 148 points, barely managed to stay in positive territory during an afternoon swoon before finishing with a gain of 76.99 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, at 8,783.14. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.83 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 1,118.67. The Nasdaq did better, rising 69.25 points, or nearly 2 percent, to 1,823.57. Page C9.
 
Bond Market Suffers Big Decline
The United States bond market suffered the biggest decline in almost a month as signs of stability in world financial markets sapped demand at the Treasury's $12 billion note sale. The yield on the 30-year bond rose to 5.32 percent from 5.21 percent. C9.
 
Microsoft Denies Bullying Apple
Microsoft argued at its antitrust trial that it had every right to tell Apple Computer last year that it would stop producing word processors and other software for Macintosh computers unless Apple adopted Microsoft's browser as the default choice on its computers. C2.
 
Linkexchange, a closely held Internet advertising firm, will be acquired by Microsoft in a $250 million stock deal, Dow Jones reported, citing unidentified sources. C20.
 
Changing of the Guard at Loews
The billionaire brothers Laurence and Preston Robert Tisch said they would turn over daily management of Loews, the diversified conglomerate they built over the course of half a century, to the next generation of Tisches at the end of the year. The brothers said they would step down as co-chief executives and pass the reins to Laurence's son James Tisch, above, currently the Loews president and chief operating officer. Laurence, 75, and Preston Robert, 71, will remain co-chairmen of the company. C20.
 
China Seen as Vulnerable to Turmoil
With a Chinese company set to default on a foreign bond payment for the first time since the Communists took power 50 years ago, some bankers worry that a looming credit squeeze could weaken China's immunity to the financial turmoil that has already hit most of its Asian neighbors. Market Place. C8.
 
Fed Report Shows Slower Growth
The economy was growing at a slower pace and inflation was benign at the start of the fourth quarter, the Federal Reserve's latest survey of regional conditions, known as the beige book, showed. C7.
 
Livent Drops Theater Plan
Three months after agreeing to redevelop the last unclaimed historic theater on 42d Street, the troubled Canadian entertainment company Livent decided to drop the project. D3.
 
Siemens Plans to Shed Businesses
Siemens, the German electronics conglomerate that has struggled for years with mediocre profits, announced sweeping plans to sell off businesses with combined sales of more than $10 billion. The companies to be sold employ 60,000 out of Siemens' total work force of 416,000. The company's American depository receipts rose $6.50, to $68.50. C4.
 
Cisco Systems, the computer networking concern, said its fiscal first-quarter operating profit rose 34 percent. C7.
 
Aetna, the insurance giant, said its third-quarter operating profit fell 6.1 percent. C8.
 
Viacom said its third-quarter operating profit rose more than fivefold. C6.
 
Seagram reported that its first-quarter profit fell a less-than-expected 18 percent. C6.
 
Hand-Wringing Over Deflation
Despite dire warnings about coming deflation, such predictions amount to little more than blather. No data show prices are generally falling, and there is no evidence that across-the-board price cutting is likely to break out. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,783.14 up 76.99
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.32% up 0.11
The Dollar -- 116.60 yen up 1.27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); SIN (SWX) (52%); SIE (LSE) (52%); SIE (FRA) (52%); SIE (BIT) (52%); SI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); SIEMENS AG (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES S TISCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



154 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
KLA-TENCOR DISMISSES 200 WORKERS AND EXPECTS A LOSS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The KLA-Tencor Corporation said late on Tuesday that it had dismissed about 200 workers, or 5 percent of its work force. KLA-Tencor, based in San Jose, Calif., said it would take an unspecified charge in its second quarter in association with the restructuring, resulting in a net loss for the quarter. Semiconductor makers are scrapping plans to upgrade equipment and build new factories as they grapple with an oversupply of chips amid declining sales. Last month, KLA-Tencor said new orders in the first quarter, which ended on Sept. 30, were lower than expected. KLA-Tencor shares rose $1.625 yesterday, to $32.4375, after falling $3.75 on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KLAC (NASDAQ) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (97%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: KLA TENCOR CORP KLA-TENCOR CORP (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: KLA TENCOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); ELECTRONICS (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (84%); NEW ORDERS (84%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



155 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Alfred Bingham, 93, Dies; Once-Radical Intellectual

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Alfred Mitchell Bingham, a well-born, well-heeled radical who made a broken field run through 20th century intellectual history, coming of age as a rock-ribbed Republican in the 1920's, veering left in the 1930's as a leader of the quest for an American-style collectivism, then returning to the capitalist fold in the 1940's as a straight-ticket Democrat, died on Monday at his home in Clinton, N.Y.
He was 93, and as an author and founder of the journal Common Sense had written extensively about once burning social, political and economic issues. 
 From the perspective of 60 years, the often fervid debates among leftist intellectuals of the 1930's can seem quaint. But then it is easy to forget what a shattering impact the Depression had on the credibility of capitalism and how attractive the promise of socialism could seem in comparison.
Whatever the forces of ferment of the 1930's, it would be hard to imagine a less likely radical than Mr. Bingham. A Mayflower descendant whose grandfather and great-grandfathers, both named Hiram Bingham, were prominent Protestant missionaries in the Pacific, he was the son of Hiram Bingham 3d, an explorer and historian who discovered the Incan ruins at Machu Picchu in Peru, taught Latin American history at Yale, then entered Connecticut Republican politics with such a flourish that within one 24-hour period in 1925 he served as Lieutenant Governor and Governor and began an eight-year stint as an ultra conservative United States Senator.
For all the missionary zeal and adventurism he inherited from his father, Mr. Bingham did even better by his mother, Alfreda Mitchell, a granddaughter of Charles L. Tiffany, the founder of the Fifth Avenue store, whose wealth, as Mr. Bingham documented in a privately published 1995 book, helped seed generations of Bingham enterprises, including the political career of his younger brother Jonathan, who was a longtime Democratic Representative from the Bronx.
Mr. Bingham, who was born in New Haven as the second of seven sons and grew up in an imposing house on Prospect Avenue, attended Groton, then Yale and its law school, where what he once described as his smug Republicanism began to unravel. Fired with a democratic zeal by two of his law professors, Felix Frankfurter and William O. Douglas, Mr. Bingham shelved his law degree and worked briefly at a series of menial jobs.
Then, financed by his Tiffany grandmother, he set off on a two-year world tour, using family connections to gain interviews with Mussolini, Gandhi and other world leaders and paying a visit to the Soviet Union, where he was impressed by the apparent success of the first Five Year Plan.
Back in the United States in 1932, Mr. Bingham plunged almost immediately into radical politics. Settling in New York, he founded Common Sense, a militant journal whose slogan, "production for use not for profit," underscored its stated belief that "the capitalist system cannot be saved and is not worth saving."
Mr. Bingham, who saw the journal becoming the organ of a militant new third party, advocated a cooperative, planned and classless society that, with appropriate taxation, nationalization of banks and the like, would, he insisted, assure an average American family an annual income of $5,000 a year.
If his stance seems quixotic, hewas in good company. The magazine's contributors included James Agee, Upton Sinclair, John Dos Passos, John Dewey, Theodore Dreiser, Edmund Wilson, and the governors of Wisconsin, Philip La Follette, and Minnesota, Floyd B. Olson.
The son of the man who discovered Machu Picchu was hardly a rolltop desk liberal. In one celebrated incident early in 1934, he was bodily ejected from the Waldorf-Astoria's elegant Empire Room after trying to give a speech to diners in support of striking waiters and kitchen workers. Later that year, defying an edict by Mayor Frank Hague that there be no peaceful demonstrations in Jersey City, he was arrested while picketing in support of striking furniture workers there. His swift conviction was later overturned on appeal.
For Mr. Bingham, who served as an officer of the Farmer-Labor Political Federation and the American Civil Liberties Union and turned out three books, it was a heady decade, but with the outbreak of World War II he reconciled himself to the two-party system. Repairing to the Bingham family's ancestral home in Salem, Conn., he reinvented himself as a New Deal Democrat and rode the Roosevelt coattails to victory in 1940 for what turned out to be a single term in the State Senate.
After writing three more books and serving in the Army in World War II, he became a lawyer in Connecticut, but continued his interest in politics. Among other things, he helped to found the state chapter of Americans for Democratic Action in 1947, made a failed bid for Congress in 1952 and held a series of offices in Salem, including Probate Judge.
In 1974, at the age of 81, the radical old war horse was stirred anew when a son, Stephen, a young lawyer, was accused of smuggling a pistol used in a fatal, failed prison break, to a San Quentin inmate, George Jackson. After 11 years as a fugitive, the younger Mr. Bingham turned himself in and was acquitted at trial, but not before his father had spent what was described as the bulk of his fortune on legal fees.
After the death of his first wife, Sylvia Knox, in 1981, he married Katherine Stryker Dunn. He began spending much of his time at her home in Clinton while continuing his writing, including a 1989 biography of his father.
In addition to his wife and son, who now lives in San Rafael, Calif., Mr. Bingham is survived by a daughter, Alfreda Shapere of Salem; two other sons, Christopher of St. Paul, Minn. and Douglas of Edmonton, Alberta, and five granchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 9, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday of Alfred M. Bingham, a onetime political radical, misstated the publishing status and the publication date of a book he wrote about his family. The book, "The Tiffany Fortune," was published in 1996 by Abeel & Leet and is still in print.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alfred M. Bingham (1994)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BINGHAM ENTERPRISES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); HISTORY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); GRANDPARENTS (87%); LIBERALISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WRITERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: BINGHAM, ALFRED MITCHELL; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998



156 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Interpublic Group agrees to acquire Gillespie, adding a link to a chain of specialized agencies.

BYLINE: By Courtney Kane 

 BODY:
THE frenetic Madison Avenue takeover spree keeps going and going and going as yet another well-regarded independent agency is being acquired.
In the latest deal, the acquisitive Interpublic Group of Companies said that as expected it had bought Gillespie in Lawrenceville, N.J. Though terms of the deal were not disclosed, trade publications estimated the purchase price at $20 million. 
 As part of the deal, which is expected to be formally announced today, Gillespie -- an integrated marketing communications agency that is best known for its direct-marketing capabilities -- will keep its name and operate as an autonomous unit in Interpublic's McCann Relationship Marketing Worldwide network of agencies, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group unit.
"This partnership will provide new opportunities to accelerate our growth by providing current and future clients with access to a worldwide network of offices, increased research capabilities and highly sophisticated resources in areas such as the Internet and Web commerce," said Dick Gillespie, president and chief executive of Gillespie, which is formally called the Gillespie Organization.
The transaction is the most recent example of a trend in which small and midsized independent shops are being rapidly snapped up by larger agencies. Other recent examples include the acquisition of Hampel/Stefanides in New York by Envoy Communications Group in Toronto and Margeotes/Fertitta & Partners in New York, which sold a majority interest to the MDC Communications Corporation in Toronto.
Mr. Gillespie, 54, who will continue to head the agency in his current roles, said that since last spring, Gillespie had received seven acquisition offers from a wide range of domestic and international communications companies.
"We never were for sale, but the offers kept coming," Mr. Gillespie said. "The Interpublic and McCann-Erickson alliance makes great sense, because it will help us meet our long-term agency goals more quickly." Those goals include one that Mr. Gillespie set last year to build the shop's billings to $500 million.
Gillespie, founded in 1973 by Mr. Gillespie with $1,500 in start-up capital, has grown into a shop with 135 employees and an estimated $140 million in billings from clients including American Reinsurance, Cushman & Wakefield, Elizabeth Arden Red Door Salons and Janssen Pharmaceutica. Besides direct marketing, the agency offers a wide spectrum of services including traditional advertising, branding, data-base marketing, public relations, event marketing, corporate design and interactive marketing.
"We made an extensive search of what independent agencies remain at this point," Stan Rapp, chairman and chief executive of McCann Relationship Marketing, said. "We identified Gillespie as the best agency, because they weren't just focused in one area. They bring considerable experience across a diverse number of business categories."
Mr. Rapp said that over time Gillespie had "demonstrated again and again that brand building and the best result-generating communications beautifully complement one another."
"This is a perfect fit with the network we are building around the world," he said.
The Gillespie acquisition is the seventh for the McCann Relationship Marketing unit since it was formed in January 1997 as the successor to McCann Direct. The acquisition comes just a week after it expanded its overseas operations by acquiring agencies in Australia, Japan and Spain with estimated combined billings of $60 million.
Mr. Rapp said the agency planned to continue to grow by opening additional offices in Chicago and Los Angeles, in addition to announcing the acquisitions of five more agencies, primarily in Europe and Latin America, by the end of the year.
"We are not just snapping up agencies," he said. "We are very carefully approaching and merging with agencies that will meet our strategic goals."
"The emergence of a globalized network digital economy sets the stage for a future in which one-to-one relationship marketing becomes the dominant force in marketing communications and becomes the fastest-growing segment in the agency business," he said. "So, everybody is positioning themselves for that future."
McCann Relationship Marketing has 700 employees in 30 countries and billings estimated at $610 million from clients including General Motors, Mastercard International and Sprint. Mr. Rapp said the agency planned to expand the network by 1999 to $1 billion in billings.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (97%); MSLI (NASDAQ) (55%); MSL (TSX) (55%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (97%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: GILLESPIE ADVERTISING CO; INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (97%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (70%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS INC (67%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS LLC (67%); MCCANN RELATIONSHIP MARKETING INC (57%); MERUS LABS INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); HAMPEL/STEFANIDES (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GILLESPIE ADVERTISING CO; INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); DATABASE MARKETING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BRANDING (75%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); EVENT MARKETING (70%); STARTUPS (68%); 

PERSON: KANE, COURTNEY DICK GILLESPIE (86%); STAN RAPP (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



157 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 30 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

DOLLAR WEAKENS. The dollar fell against the mark as Germany's central bank declined to cut interest rates. In New York, the dollar traded at 1.6601 marks, down from 1.6657.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the German Mark to the dollar, since April, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



158 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Greenspan Sees Calming Of Markets

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said today that investors and lenders appeared to be calming down after the fright thrown into them by global financial turmoil, suggesting that the central bank is less concerned than a few weeks ago that a credit squeeze could derail the economy.
While reassuring, Mr. Greenspan's comments were interpreted on Wall Street to mean the Fed might see less need to cut interest rates again at its next policy meeting on Nov. 17. But the Labor Department's inadvertent release today of employment data for October, showing that the economy was gradually slowing, reinforced the case for a rate cut and left economists and investors once again to sort out muddled signals about the prospects for the nation's long expansion. 
 After declining early, stock prices surged, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 132.33 points, to 8,915.47, its highest level since July 30. Bond prices fell.
Economists said the Fed was still more likely than not to trim rates again this month. Many analysts are expecting a reduction of a quarter-point in the Federal funds target rate, to 4.75 percent, after two quarter-point reductions in the last six weeks.
"The odds slightly favor an easing at the next meeting," said Bill Dudley, an economist at Goldman, Sachs.
Mr. Greenspan did not address the general economic outlook or interest rate policy in his speech today, delivered from Washington by video conference to a meeting of the Securities Industry Association in Florida. But while he cited some abating of the pressures within the financial markets, Mr. Greenspan's decision to devote much of the speech to investors' pronounced risk aversion suggested that he continued to see it as a matter of concern.
The Fed had cited wariness among lenders and jittery conditions in the financial markets when explaining its last rate cut, on Oct. 15. A week earlier, Mr. Greenspan had called the development "very dramatic" and suggested that the problem had not yet peaked.
During the late summer and early fall, investors around the world rushed away from all but the safest securities and also demanded high levels of liquidity, or the ability to sell at an instant's notice, a development that is "virtually unprecedented" and "startling" at a time when the economy is strong, inflation is dormant and interest rates are not rising, Mr. Greenspan said today.
That rush was set off by Russia's effective default on its Government bonds in mid-August, which led investors to conclude almost any investment could fall to the waves of turmoil set off last year in Asia.
But in recent weeks the stock market has marched steadily upward after its precipitous drop during the summer.
More important from the Fed's perspective, there has also been some narrowing of the gap between interest rates on United States Treasury bonds, the worldwide benchmark for investment safety, and bonds issued by companies and other governments. Still, some Fed officials and many economists said the spread remained larger than it should be.
Maury N. Harris, an economist at Paine Webber, said the difference on Wednesday between the yield on 10-year Treasury notes and an index of junk bond yields was 534 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. That was down from 625 basis points since mid-October but still way above the average for the first seven months of the year of 300 basis points.
"It is, of course, plausible that the current episode of investor fright will dissipate, and yield spreads and liquidity premiums will soon fall into more normal ranges," Mr. Greenspan said in the speech to the Securities Industry Association. "Indeed, we are already seeing significant signs of some reversals."
But, Mr. Greenspan added, the improvement "leaves unanswered the question of why such episodes erupted in the first place."
His answer was that "when events become too complex and move too rapidly, as appears to be the case today, human beings become demonstrably less able to cope." In the financial world, that leads to "disengagement," he said, and ultimately to falling prices.
"That leaves us with the challenge: How can we harness burgeoning international financial flows in a manner that does not strain human evaluation capacities?" Mr. Greenspan said.
He argued against putting controls on international capital flows, a strategy that is being seriously considered by developing nations and one already adopted by Malaysia.
He noted that governments, central banks and the organizations like the International Monetary Fund were taking steps to develop international banking standards and make sure that investors have more financial information about the countries in which they are investing. He said governments, in particular, had to pursue sound policies if their financial systems were to be stable.
But he said technology was changing the financial marketplace so rapidly that regulators would always have trouble keeping up, and that ultimately there would be little choice but to rely on the market to police itself, with buyers and sellers judging what was prudent and what was excessively risky to the system.
"Doubtless, tomorrow's complexities will dwarf even today's," Mr. Greenspan said. "It is, thus, all the more important to recognize that 21st-century financial regulation is going to increasingly have to rely on private counterparty surveillance to achieve safety and soundness."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan speaking by satellite to the Securities Industry Association yesterday. As usual, the Fed chief's comments prompted speculation on the deeper meanings of his remarks. (Associated Press)(pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSN; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSN; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



159 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Malaysia to Be Unlikely Host at Economic Meeting

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 4

 BODY:
In little more than a week, the world's leaders will converge on this businesslike city in the heart of Southeast Asia for the annual meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. They could hardly be meeting in a more provocative place.
On Sept. 1 Malaysia discontinued trading in its currency, the ringgit, and imposed sweeping controls on the flow of capital in its stock and currency markets, particularly on investment from overseas. In doing so, the Malaysian Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, in effect slammed the door on the global economy that President Clinton and the other leaders are coming here to champion. 
 Mr. Mahathir's decision drew jeers from international investors and policy makers, who warned that Malaysia was seeking a quick fix that would retard its desperately needed reforms and leave it the odd man out when Asia finally recovered from the regional malaise.
Now, though, Mr. Mahathir's allies are marshaling new economic data that they say indicate that capital controls are breathing new life into the country's moribund economy. Malaysia's foreign reserves rose strongly in September, and there is anecdotal evidence that consumers are starting to spend again.
"It's nice to be able to say that since we adopted capital controls, the economy has improved," said Zainal Aznam Yusof, the deputy director of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies, a research organization here that helped draft the policies. "But we want to see whether this is strongly sustainable."
Critics said it was predictable that capital controls would be a short-term tonic to Malaysia's economy. Because the country is sheltered from the vagaries of capital flows and currency fluctuations, they said, the Government had been able to ease interest rates and encourage consumer spending.
Still, the mere fact that Malaysia's experiment has yielded some positive results guarantees that the issue will come up during the APEC meeting. With Mr. Mahathir leading the campaign, the cause of capital controls will have a fiery advocate who has a penchant for getting under the skin of Westerners.
"Mahathir is a very outspoken political leader," said Chia Yew Boon, an independent analyst in Singapore. "There is no way the likes of Clinton or Jiang Zemin are going to be able to muzzle him," he added, referring to President Jiang of China.
Policy makers in the United States have expressed fears that if Malaysia's gambit is seen as successful, other economically weakened countries in the region, like Indonesia, might be tempted to try it. So far, Indonesian officials have said they would stick to the recovery plan devised by the International Monetary Fund, which stresses economic austerity and open markets.
But officials in Japan have expressed some sympathy for Mr. Mahathir's policies, while Paul Krugman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has advocated using them as an emergency measure.
Mr. Yusof said recent events had vindicated Malaysia's contention that it needed to insulate itself from the ravages of the global financial system. He said the recent near-collapse of a prominent American hedge fund underscored how sudden flows of capital can have destructive consquences.
The Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund, based in Greenwich, Conn., was nearly wrecked by a series of wrong bets on Treasury securities after the collapse of the economy in Russia prompted a flight of capital out of that country.
"The L.T.C.M. fiasco really provides a case study of what could go wrong in the global economy," Mr. Yusof said.
With capital controls as protection, Mr. Yusof said Malaysia was picking up the pieces of its shattered economy. In addition to growing foreign reserves, he said Malaysia had improved its trade balance and revived consumer purchases of durable goods.
Foreign investors have also not wholly abandoned Malaysia, as experts had predicted they would. While foreign direct investment fell in September -- to $142 million, from an average monthly rate of $321 million for the period from January through September -- it did not dry up completely.
For every comforting statistic, though, the critics produce an alarming one. They said the increase in Malaysia's foreign reserves was largely a result of the fact that the Government revalued its reserves using the country's new fixed exchange rate of 3.8 ringgit to a dollar.
The skeptics also noted that bank lending declined in September, despite several reductions in interest rates. So the consumers who are buying new cars and home appliances are merely dipping into their savings, which means the buying spree will end when their savings are depleted.
"The argument was that by imposing capital controls, you'd regain control over monetary policy, which would increase the supply of money and lessen the liquidity crunch," said K. S. Jomo, a professor of political economy at the University of Malaya here. "But that's not happening."
The biggest flaw in Malaysia's policy, Mr. Jomo and others said, is its timing. Under the new regulations, foreign money that is in the country cannot be taken out for 12 months. But with the Asian crisis more than a year old, much of that foreign capital had already gone. The critics said Mr. Mahathir had spooked would-be investors without even locking in the ones who used to be here.
"There is a case to be made for the temporary imposition of capital controls, but to avert a crisis, not to respond to one," Mr. Jomo said.
In fact, other Asian currencies, like the Indonesian rupiah and the Thai baht, have actually rebounded since Malaysia suspended trading in its currency and fixed the exchange rate. Analysts liken the situation to buying an insurance policy for a disaster that has come and gone.
More important, the capital controls are slowing down much-needed corporate and banking reforms. The Government's rescue of Renong, a major conglomerate with close ties to Mr. Mahathir, is going ahead, though some analysts predict the Government will eventually scrap the much-criticized plan.
The rescue of politically connected companies remains a tense issue here. On Monday, during the trial of Malaysia's former Deputy Prime Minister, Anwar Ibrahim, on charges of corruption and sex-related crimes, Mr. Anwar angrily denied Mr. Mahathir's claim that he had approved the bailout.
Mr. Anwar's sensational trial is a reminder that Mr. Mahathir's economic policies cannot be disentangled from politics. Malaysia's 72-year-old Prime Minister clashed with his former protege over how to respond to the Asian crisis, and he dismissed Mr. Anwar the day after imposing capital controls.
During boom times, Mr. Mahathir won support for his policies by wrapping them in anti-foreigner language. In a speech on Monday, he attacked a familiar target, saying foreign currency traders "are the cause of the currency turmoil," adding: "They spread it worldwide. They precipitated the current recession in every country."
But Mr. Mahathir's treatment of Mr. Anwar has stirred anger and sparked growing social unrest in Malaysia. With protesters chanting for reform on the usually orderly streets of this city, experts said Mr. Mahathir needed capital controls to work in order to soothe the country's agitated population.
"Things will heat up if the economy does not improve," said Chandra Muzaffar, a professor of political science at the University of Malaya. "Then the whole question of Mahathir and his leadership will remain an issue."
In that regard, at least, the leaders who converge on Kuala Lumpur in two weeks will be able to identify with their embattled host.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad has imposed sweeping controls on the flow of Malayisan capital and on investment from overseas. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (99%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (78%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (60%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (99%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); BONDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); TRENDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; MOHAMAD, MAHATHIR (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



160 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Sprint Offers Monthly Plan for UnlimitedLong-Distance Calls

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
For decades, consumers have paid a little more with each passing minute they spent on the phone making a long-distance call. This weekend that will begin to change.
Breaking with longstanding practice in the $80 billion long-distance market, the Sprint Corporation introduced an all-you-can-eat pricing plan yesterday that allows consumers to make unlimited long-distance calls on the weekend for $25 a month. 
 The marketing wars in the long-distance business are among the fiercest in any industry, with Sprint, AT&T and MCI Worldcom each spending millions each year to win the ears and mouths of consumers everywhere. The new Sprint Unlimited plan seems sure to give Sprint, the No. 3 long-distance carrier, a big boost in that battle.
If the plan proves both popular with consumers and profitable for Sprint, it could usher in a time when people could elect to pay a flat charge for unlimited long-distance calls all week, eliminating the cringe factor when the phone bill arrives.
Internet users have enjoyed unlimited-use plans for years. Most people -- except those in much of New York City, of course -- can make unlimited local phone calls without incurring additional charges. Most cable television channels offer unlimited viewing for a flat monthly fee.
But pricing plans in the long-distance business have remained resolutely a la carte. Even as the long-distance giants have started offering special calling plans that eliminate different rates based on geographic distance, those charges have remained resolutely per-minute.
"The whole notion that a caller can get on the phone and not worry about how long they are on the call is pretty revolutionary," said Rebecca Sachs, a spokeswoman for the Telecommunications Research and Action Center, a nonprofit research group in Washington. "It is consistent with attitudes people have about the Internet. You don't think about sending E-mail to people in Asia or how long your message is."
But do not try to send E-mail with Sprint's new plan. The catch in the program is that Sprint intends the service to be used only for voice calls and will try to ferret out those who use the plan for modems, fax machines or other data services.
"It's not available for data usage, Internet connections, because of the usage profile that would be associated with ongoing data connections," said Tim Kelly, a Sprint vice president for marketing.
In other words: people spend so much time on line that if they used the Sprint Unlimited plan to make long-distance calls into the Internet, Sprint could end up having a hard time making money on the program.
The problem for Sprint is that the new program could end up being highly attractive to cyberspace denizens and fax users. The America Online phone lines in your area are jammed or cranky? Try California. Want to send faxes to a few hundred friends? Wait until Saturday.
"We'll monitor the network to identify that," Mr. Kelly said. "We have ways of tracking it."
He added that Sprint would not monitor calls but would instead analyze use patterns to figure out whether consumers are making unauthorized use of the program. Customers who use a modem could be kicked off the plan.
MCI Worldcom already offers a 5- cent-a-minute rate on Sundays and AT&T offers a 5-cent-a-minute rate all weekend. That means that users would have to make about two hours of calls every weekend to make the Sprint plan economical. The Sprint plan is available nationwide and allows users to make unlimited calls to anywhere in the country on the weekend. During the week, calls cost 10 cents a minute.
Mr. Kelly said that the plan would have a positive effect on Sprint's financial results. But Eric Strumingher, an analyst for Paine Webber, estimated that Sprint must pay about 5.5 cents a minute to local phone companies for beginning and ending long-distance calls.
That means that the program could potentially hurt Sprint's financial performance if many of its customers signed up for the program and then switched a lot of their calling from the week to the weekend.
An MCI Worldcom spokesman said his company had no plans to offer an unlimited-use plan. AT&T said that it would consider such a plan if its customers asked for it.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); S (NYSE) (85%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: SPRINT CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (85%); AOL INC (50%); NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPRINT CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); ASIA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (95%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH TIM KELLY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



161 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
EarlyRelease of Sensitive Job Data Roils the Markets

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
A premature release by the Labor Department of sensitive job figures brought down interest rates yesterday just as the Government was about to borrow $10 billion, upsetting much of Wall Street.
The Labor Department's error meant that the Treasury appeared to save more than $200 million in interest costs over the 30-year life of the bonds. It also bloodied bond traders, many of whom had established their usual short positions ahead of the Government's auction and had hoped to distribute the new supply of bonds before grappling with the job report scheduled for release today. 
 "Everybody got whiplashed from this," said David M. Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston, a specialist in Treasury securities, noting that traders were already reeling from many weeks of market volatility caused by foreign turmoil.
The Treasury would make no estimate of the impact on its borrowing costs, though a spokesman did observe that other factors could have intervened between 9:20 A.M., when rates responded almost instantaneously to the leak, and the 1 P.M. auction.
But whatever the Treasury's savings, the benefit is likely to prove short-lived, some Wall Street analysts said. "The bad memories will be carried over to future auctions," one predicted, resulting in more cautious bidding.
The monthly job figures are generally considered the most important set of economic data, with the change in employer payrolls -- contained in the table that was inadvertently released on the Internet yesterday morning -- usually the figure with the most market impact.
After the mistake-induced rally, however, the bond market retreated and interest rates, which move inversely to prices, rose several hundredths of a percentage point for most maturities. The 30-year bond finished at 5.34 percent, up from 5.32 on Wednesday and 5.30 at yesterday's auction.
The stock market, down as much as 68 points in late morning, rebounded smartly, with the Dow Jones industrials setting the pace with a gain of 132.33 points, or 1.51 percent.
The change of heart in both markets was attributed variously to a fuller look at the job figures, to relatively weak demand at the Treasury's auction and to comments made by Alan Greenspan to the Securities Industry Association's convention in Florida.
The Federal Reserve chairman said he saw signs that yield spreads and liquidity premiums among bonds of different quality were narrowing again and that it was "plausible" that they would "soon fall into more normal ranges."
Bond people seemed to interpret this as meaning that Mr. Greenspan would find it less urgent to cut short-term interest rates again when his policy body meets on Nov. 17. Stock people may have found in his remarks reassurance that the economy was likely to keep growing and avoid a credit crunch and business downturn that would erode profits.
Economists, too, came to differing conclusions after digesting yesterday's figures, which included a rise in first-time claims for unemployment insurance.
Shares of banks and brokerage houses were among the biggest gainers. Charles Schwab jumped 4 5/8, to 58 3/8, while Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Chase Manhattan, BankAmerica, J. P. Morgan and BankBoston all posted gains of more than two points, perhaps buoyed by more European rate cuts and, in Morgan's case, by takeover speculation.
Steel stocks had another strong day as the industry pressed its case in Washington against what it contends is dumping by importers. Nucor climbed 1 1/2, to 48 3/8, and USX-US Steel climbed 1 5/16 , to 27 5/8.
Delta Air Lines, up 2 3/4, to 108 3/4, led a higher airline group.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index performed nearly as well as the Dow industrials, rising 15.18, or 1.36 percent, while the Nasdaq market and the Russell 2000 advanced fractionally.
Mr. Greenspan's comments came just as investors prepared to bid on $10 billion of bonds, in the third and last installment of the Government's $38 billion debt sale. The new bonds sold at 5.30 percent, 1 basis point higher than dealers expected and a sign of dampened demand.
Results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.253
Average Yield . . . 5.240%
High Yield . . . 5.300%
Low Yield . . . 5.180%
Total applied for . . . $17,226,691
Accepted . . . $10,946,164
Noncompetitive . . . $66,594
Interest set at . . . 5 1/4%
 
The 30-year bonds mature Nov. 15, 2028.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Oct. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); LABOR DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;TREASURY DEPARTMENT LABOR DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; AUCTIONS STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



162 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Excerpts From Greenspan Speech on Global Turmoil

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech yesterday by Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, broadcast to the annual meeting of the Securities Industry Association in Boca Raton, Fla.:
This afternoon I intend to address a subject that 10 years ago would have been sleep inducing. Today it is a cage rattler: the structure of the international financial system. Functioning well, most participants take it for granted. Functioning poorly, it becomes a vehicle for financial contagion and a threat to the franchises of many in this room. Dramatic advances in computer and telecommunications technologies in recent years have enabled a broad unbundling of risks through innovative financial engineering. The financial instruments of a bygone era, common stocks and debt obligations, have been augmented by a vast array of complex hybrid financial products, which allow risks to be isolated, but which, in many cases, seemingly challenge human understanding. 
 The consequence doubtless has been a far more efficient financial system. The price-setting functions of the market economy in the United States, for example, have become increasingly sensitive to subtle changes in consumer choice and capital efficiencies, and the resulting set of product and asset market prices and interest rates have enabled producers to direct scarce capital to those productive facilities that most effectively cater to consumer preferences. Thus, despite a rate of capital investment far short of that of many other advanced industrial countries, the efficiency of that capital has facilitated the creation of an economy whose vitality is unmatched throughout the world.
These same new technologies and financial products have challenged the ability of inward- looking and protectionist economies to maintain effective barriers, which, along with the superior performance of their more open trading partners, has led over the past decade to a major dismantling of impediments to the free flow of trade and capital. . . .
Notwithstanding the demonstrable advantages of the new international financial system, the Mexican financial breakdown in late 1994 and, of course, the most recent episodes in East Asia and elsewhere have raised questions about the inherent stability of this new system. . . .
Why did a relatively conventional slowdown in capital investments and capital outflows to East Asia over the past year and a half induce such a wrenching adjustment in individual economies and why has the degree of contagion been so large?
The answer appears to lie in the very same technologies that have brought so marked an increase in the efficiency of our new international financial structure. That financial structure, which has induced such dramatic increases in productive capital flows, has also exhibited significantly improved capacities to transmit ill-advised investments. . . .
As I have pointed out before, the huge flows of capital into debt and equity markets, premised on overly optimistic assessments of risk or returns, drove asset prices to unsustainable levels that only worsened the subsequent correction.
Hence, the recent crises, while sharing many, if not most, of the characteristics of past episodes, nonetheless, appear different. Market discipline today is clearly far more Draconian and less forgiving than 20 or 30 years ago. Owing to greater information and more opportunities, capital now shifts more readily and increasingly to those ventures or economies that appear to excel. . . .
The crises seem to reflect, arguably, an inability of people to come to grips with the vastly accelerated pace of financial activity -- its complexity and its volume. . . .
It is, of course, plausible that the current episode of investor fright will dissipate, and yield spreads and liquidity premiums will soon fall into more normal ranges. Indeed we are already seeing significant signs of some reversals. But that leaves unanswered the question of why such episodes erupted in the first place.
It has become evident time and again that when events become too complex and move too rapidly as appears to be the case today, human beings become demonstrably less able to cope. The failure of the ability to comprehend external events almost invariably induces disengagement from an activity, whether it be fear of entering a dark room, or of market volatility. And disengagement from markets that are net long, the most general case, means bids are hit and prices fall. . . .
As the financial system becomes ever more sensitive to change, consideration needs to be given to discourage excess leverage by financial intermediaries worldwide. . . .
Another challenge confronting the international financial system is establishing and retaining more robust currency regimes. . . .
Of course, at the end of the day the issue is not the stability of currencies, but the underlying policies that engender stable currencies. Open economies, governed by a rule of law with sound monetary, trade and fiscal policies, rarely experience exchange rate problems that destabilize those economies to the degree we have seen in Asia. . . .
Thus, there is no shortcut to sound fundamentals. If we are going to have a sophisticated high-tech international financial system, the lessons of recent years make it clear that all participants must follow the policies that make it possible.
There is already under way a number of initiatives that, if effectively implemented, should significantly tighten international financial system discipline. These initiatives include: endeavors to promulgate standards of bank supervision on a global basis, initiatives to markedly increase transparency of central bank accounts, more prompt and detailed data on global lending, compliance with codes for fiscal transparency, plus moves toward insuring sound corporate governance and accounting standards. . . .
Finally, there is somewhat of a silver lining, if one can call it that, in the debilitating set of crises we have experienced in the past 18 months. First, while over the longer run, it will be essential to have significantly improved systems to oversee lending and borrowing by financial intermediaries, and incentives to dissuade excess leverage in general, in the short run, there will be little need. If anything, lenders are likely to be overcautious. . . .
Secondly, some of the spectacular equity-driven American and European capital gains of the middle 1990's diversified as unproductive capital flows to some emerging market economies. Such capital flows, arguably a key factor in the crisis, are unlikely to be repeated in the near future. . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSN INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS LTD (73%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSN SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN ASIA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); PROTECTIONISM (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



163 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Ruling Japan Party Weighs A Cut in the 5% Sales Tax

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The ruling Liberal Democratic Party is reluctantly discussing a temporary reduction of the nation's 5 percent sales tax in an effort to win support from the opposition Liberal Party.
The Liberal Party, headed by a former ruling party member, Ichiro Ozawa, has made a rollback of the "consumption tax" -- essentially, a national sales tax -- part of the price of its support. The ruling party needs the Liberals if it is to curb the opposition's ability to hold legislative proceedings ransom to its demands. 
 "This is the price we must pay," said a senior party leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The Liberal Party would like to see the tax temporarily reduced from 5 percent to 1 percent to stimulate consumer spending and lift Japan's stagnating economy. United States officials have urged a permanant cut in the consumption tax.
Officially, the Government denies that a tax cut may be in the offing. Akitaka Saiki, spokesman for Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, said today, "I am not aware of such discussions" about a possible rollback.
But other sources in the Liberal Democratic Party confirmed that talks were under way; cuts in the consumption tax are being publicly discussed.
"There seems to be more and more momentum behind the idea of a temporary cut in the consumption tax," said Ron Bevacqua, an economist at Merrill Lynch & Company in Tokyo, who warns that a temporary cut would distort consumption patterns and do more harm than good. "Even though it makes no sense economically, the politicians have shown time and again that they are not above this kind of thing," he said.
The ruling party lacks a majority in the Upper House of Parliament and is casting about for ways to secure a better hold on power before the next parliamentary session, which could start late this month.
It sees alliances with small opposition parties like the Liberal Party as the best way of achieving that goal and has been bargaining hard in recent weeks to curry their favor.
It is discussing a plan to issue gift certificates as a way of spurring consumer spending and winning the cooperation of Komeito, another opposition party whose support would give the L.D.P. the minimum needed for a majority in the Upper House.
And it has been talking with Mr. Ozawa, who has been a thorn in the L.D.P.'s side since he left the party in 1993, about expanding credit guarantees to small firms and a temporary, partial rollback of the consumption tax, perhaps starting next April.
Although senior members of the Liberal Democratic Party generally oppose a cut in the tax, that they have gone so far as to discuss it at all is a measure of the pressure they feel to put together even a shaky majority. Without it, they say, the party is uncertain it could survive a sudden no-confidence vote.
Kabun Muto, a senior Liberal Democratic Party member from the conservative wing of the party, has said he would favor a one-year reduction in the tax, and Hiromi No naka, chief cabinet secretary, has made it clear that he considers ties with the Liberal Party of paramount importance.
The consumption tax, which was enacted in 1989, is one of the major achievements of Noboru Takeshita, a former Prime Minister who continues to wield considerable power. Mr. Takeshita controls the largest faction in the L.D.P., and Prime Minister Obuchi is seen as his protege.
An increase in the tax to 5 percent from 3 percent in April 1997, imposed in hopes of reducing a budget deficit, is often blamed for precipitating a steep decline in consumer spending that has compounded Japan's economic woes.
The American Secretary of the Treasury, Robert E. Rubin, even suggested that the Government here consider such a rollback in a private meeting earlier this year in New York with Kiichi Miyazawa, a leading party elder who subsequently become Finance Minister.
The possibility that the party will be forced to backtrack on the tax is the buzz of Nagatacho, the area where most legislators have their offices. Many party members are worried that the party's efforts to woo the opposition are going too far, although they concede the necessity of winning opposition support.
The contemplated rollback, like the proposal to issue gift certificates, is opposed by the Ministry of Finance, arguing that once the tax is reduced, it will be hard to reinstate.
And some economists warn that any temporary cut will wreak economic havoc, first causing sales to stop until the tax cut is enacted, then causing a yearlong spending spree followed by a sharp contraction when the tax moved back to its current level. They say a temporary tax cut will have a particularly severe negative impact on consumption of big-ticket items like cars.
"As occurred in 1997 with the temporary reduction of the auto tax in France, spending was postponed from the announcement date until the tax cut became effective, and then, upon the expiration of the tax cut, new-car sales fell off the cliff," said Jay N. Woodworth, an independent automobile analyst.
But Mr. Ozawa may be figuring that the political pain of restoring the tax once it is rolled back might be too much for the L.D.P. to stomach, in which case he would win immense credit with voters for master-minding a reduction in a tax that many have hated from the start.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); LIBERAL PARTY (84%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (84%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; SALES TAX POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); SALES TAX (94%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CONSUMPTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



164 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 15; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: At the Movies;
Encouragement For Black Films

BYLINE: By James Sterngold 

DATELINE: DANA POINT, Calif., Nov. 5

 BODY:
Cornel West is well known as an expert on social issues and as a professor of the philosophy of religion and of African-American studies at Harvard University. But for a few hours on Sunday evening, Mr. West (above) became confessor, revivalist preacher and coach to black filmmakers and entertainment executives at a gathering here at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel. What was most striking about his appearance was the difficulty he faced in offering hope to those frustrated by the Hollywood industry.
The gathering at this resort south of Los Angeles was the second annual "summit" of the Black Filmmakers Foundation, an organization formed to help independent black filmmakers. 
 The aim of the meeting was to create a forum for networking and deal-making for members of ethnic minorities; Latinos, American Indians and Asian-Americans were also invited. The organizers said they wanted to create an atmosphere like that of an annual media and entertainment conference run by Allen & Company in Sun Valley, Idaho, which attracts people like the investor Warren Buffet; Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft, and Michael Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company.
Precisely 100 people were invited to attend the meeting, which was underwritten by HBO. Among them were the directors Carl Franklin, Robert Townsend and Kassi Lemmons; the actors and producers Vondie Curtis Hall and Mario Van Peebles, and Robert Johnson, founder and chairman of the Black Entertainment Television cable channel. Many of the seminars and panels focused on specific subjects like financing and marketing movies, and opportunities in children's programming.
"The whole point of this is to figure out strategies we can use to be successful in this business," said Warrington Hudlin (below), the foundation's president, and a producer of "Boomerang" and "House Party."
Though Mr. Hudlin and many others attending the meeting have found some success in Hollywood, the air was frequently filled with disappointment, particularly over the fact that while black music like hip-hop attracts a broad audience in the United States and abroad, black movies generally do not.
Several people noted that "Beloved," the movie based on Toni Morrison's novel of how a black woman deals with the legacy of slavery, had not done well with either white or black audiences.
The movie is the latest in a string of films on black themes that have not broken out, including "Why Do Fools Fall in Love," "Rosewood" and "How Stella Got Her Groove Back." Filmmakers here expressed concern that the studios would be less willing to finance such projects in the future.
One person after another complained of inadequate marketing of black movies by the major studios, a reluctance to market them overseas and the problem even of attracting black audiences to black movies, particularly young blacks.
Dr. West sought to transform the worries and complaints into plans for practical action, and offered encouragement.
"I personally believe that, in terms of entertainment, if there was a really fair playing field, the entertainment industry would look like the N.B.A.," he said, adding: "I think we're at an historic turning point. There are tremendous expectations of all of you."
Rusty Cundieff, a comic and a director, said young black audiences in particular shied away from entertainment that lacked a hard edge or that appeared to be uplifting rather than gritty.
He noted that many of the young avoided seeing rap stars who have become role models take on dramatic parts in which they were perceived to be "going soft."
Taking such roles, he added, can rob the stars of their legitimacy in the eyes of their audience. And if rap performers are discouraged from taking those roles, one result is less diversity of black entertainment.
But the business of the meeting was business, and Dr. West sought to refocus the discussion by noting that, though the white business community is frequently divided, chief executives of major companies tend to put differences aside and close ranks when their economic interests are threatened.
"We have to close ranks," he said.
And the talk was all business when the panel discussions began. Appearing on a panel, Mr. Johnson of Black Entertainment Television made clear that capitalism, not altruism, led him to focus on winning over black audiences.
Asked by one participant whether there was room for two black cable channels, Mr. Johnson said flatly, "No."
Mr. Johnson also said that finding a white partner in the entertainment industry was a necessity for most ventures; his own company is partly owned by, and has received help from, John Malone's Liberty Media.
He added that complaining about hurdles to success was not enough.
"You wake up black in America, and that alone is a challenge," he said. "But what are you going to do, go back to bed? For an entrepreneur, those challenges are part of the standard operating procedure."
Mr. Johnson said that if blacks want to make films that are true to their experience, they have to control the financing.
"No one will let you tell your story on film unless you own the company," said Mr. Johnson, who has started a venture to produce four to five movies a year at a cost of no more than $3 million each. "You have to control the financial end."
Some participants said that creating movies that have crossover appeal to a white audience should not be a concern, that black producers should focus on winning black audiences because they are potentially so large and because white-run film companies were competing for their attention.
"We still have something we can control, or should -- our own markets," said Byron Lewis, founder of UniWorld Group Inc., an advertising agency. "Don't worry about crossover. If you dilute your thing, you'll be doing yourselves a disservice."
He added that blacks would have to work hard to maintain a grip on black audiences.
"Urban doesn't mean urban," Mr. Lewis said. "It means black. It is a word white people use so they can play in that area."
To which Mr. Johnson responded, "They'll be using our best talent and using it as an entree to our market, unless we can."
An Adman's Dream
What person in, say, the advertising business hasn't kicked back his feet at some point, stared out the window and thought about bailing out of the rat race, traveling and maybe even writing a movie script? And then getting some of Hollywood's top talents to produce and act in the film and a former poet laureate to direct it.
Welcome to the dream of Myron Goble, advertising strategic planner one day, well-traveled author of a script directed by Maya Angelou, if not the next day, not too much later.
Mr. Goble is the author of "Down in the Delta," scheduled to open on Christmas Day. The film is both a drama and an allegory about a black family's path to redemption and dignity after undergoing the brutal indignities of slavery and the diaspora from the rural South to the industrial North.
"Beloved" tackles the difficult subject of slavery with a mix of brutal realism and dreamlike sequences. "Down in the Delta," made for $3.5 million, approaches the issue largely through metaphor.
By his own account, Mr. Goble, 43, was an advertising man in Manhattan when dissatisfaction with his career led him to take a sabbatical in 1990 and, as he put it, just think about things and clear his head.
His six-month leave turned into a year as he backpacked around South America. "I had no real agenda," Mr. Goble said. "Well, the only agenda was living on 50 cents a day."
Back in New York in 1991, two fortuitous events gave him some focus. He read "The Promised Land," Nicholas Lemann's book on the movement of numerous blacks from the South to industrial centers in the North, and he went to a bad movie. Mr. Goble said he walked out of the movie feeling he could do better and, untainted by any advice on how to do it, sat down to write a script.
Inspired by the book, he tackled the story of a black family in inner-city Chicago that reclaims its roots in the Mississippi delta in the era of slavery.
The reconnection to the past is made through a silver candelabra the family has passed down for generations and dubbed Nathan. Understanding Nathan delivers the family from the ghetto and certain destruction.
Alfre Woodward plays the mother, who flirts with alcohol and drugs; Mary Alice plays her earnest and sad mother; Mpho Koaho is her struggling son, and Al Freeman Jr. plays an uncle back in Mississippi who clings to the family history. Ms. Angelou, well known for her poetry and autobiographical writings, directs her first feature film.
As pleased as he was with the finished product, Mr. Goble said, the effort involved a difficult introduction to the ways of Hollywood and required great reserves of patience.
"I just said: 'Burn all your bridges and close all the exits. If you don't get this movie made, you die,' " Mr. Goble recalled, adding that once "Down in the Delta" is released, he will begin trying to sell his second script, about several generations of a Southern family.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DOWN IN THE DELTA (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACK FILMMAKERS FOUNDATION BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (90%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); ALLEN & CO INC (69%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLACK FILMMAKERS FOUNDATION HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BLACKS MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (64%); RAP MUSIC (61%); HIP HOP CULTURE (61%); ETHNICITY (54%); 

PERSON: WEST, CORNEL; HUDLIN, WARRINGTON; JOHNSON, ROBERT (BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TV); GOBLE, MYRON; STERNGOLD, JAMES BILL GATES (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



165 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Hangman, Spare That Ideology

BYLINE: By David Frum; David Frum is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"It is good to hang an admiral from time to time, to encourage the others." So Voltaire said after the Royal Navy hanged Admiral Byng for losing a battle in 1756, and already you can see the nervousness in the eyes of the commanding officers on the Republican quarterdeck.
So naturally the men who lost the election are searching for substitutes to send to the gallows. They already have a candidate in mind: the social conservatives who allegedly led the party to disaster with what James Pinkerton, a former domestic policy adviser to President George Bush, has called their "hardshell moralism." 
 It's certainly true that some social conservatives speak in ways that many Americans find off-putting. And it's true, too, that Democrats used the murders of Matthew Shepard and Dr. Bernard Slepian in the weeks before the election to portray the conservative view of abortion and homosexuality as immoderate.
On the other hand, before Republicans start remaking their party in the image of Bill Clinton, they should remember that the major Republican candidate who moved himself furthest and fastest from the social conservatives, Matt Fong, the Republican Senate candidate in California, turned certain victory as of August into a drubbing on Tuesday. They should remember, too, that in both liberal Hawaii and libertarian Alaska, gay marriage was voted down, and that in the Bush brothers' South, morals and ethics were cited in exit polls as the most important issue.
More to the point, Republicans who jettison the social conservative message leave themselves with nothing to say about some of the most crucial issues of the day. Crime, dwindling academic standards, rising income inequality and welfare dependence: all of these problems are strongly correlated to the rise in family instability that causes half of all American children to live for a time in single-parent households.
What should be done about this crisis? Liberals suggest that the best response is stricter child-support enforcement, more generous welfare programs and subsidized day care. They argue, too, that legalized abortion and ever more explicit sex education in the schools will prevent single-parent families from being formed in the first place.
Modern liberals believe that while smoking and the throwing of old bottles in the trash are public matters, sexual conduct is so entirely an individual's own business that for its sake even perjury can be excused.
Conservatives, on the other hand, worry -- or should worry -- that the liberal solutions to the problem of family breakup will dangerously expand the power of the state and drastically infringe on the rights of parents to determine how their children will be educated. They believe that the decline of the family should be reversed, not accommodated.
They worry, too, about something less political than moral: that it will be hard to keep the sense of right and wrong alive in a society founded on the principle that so long as two individuals consent to something, it can never be condemned by anybody else.
The public's support for Mr. Clinton during the Monica Lewinsky scandal is a reminder that many millions of Americans do indeed take the liberal side of the sexual autonomy issue -- that social conservatism is a politically risky proposition.
On the other hand, 40 years ago, many millions of Americans took the liberal side of the confiscatory taxation issue. Had the Republican Party tossed its economic conservatives over the side then -- as prominent moderates like Arthur Larson, President Eisenhower's Under Secretary of Labor, urged them to do -- the United States economy would today still be groaning under 90 percent marginal tax rates.
It is both wrong and stupid for a party to express its principles in ways that sound harsh or strident. It took economic conservatives a generation -- and the catastrophic defeat of Barry Goldwater in 1964 -- to find in Ronald Reagan a leader who could phrase their ideas in ways that appealed to a majority of American voters.
It may take another generation to find a leader who can express social conservatism equally winningly. But that's no excuse for giving up the job now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NAVIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); SEX EDUCATION (88%); DECRIMINALIZATION (88%); PARENTS (86%); CHILDREN (86%); FAMILY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); ETHICS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ABORTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MARRIAGE (65%); PARENTING (65%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (63%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (63%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (62%); 

PERSON: FRUM, DAVID BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



166 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Drivers Know Marathoners Have It Easy

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THREE years ago, as a selfless public service, the proprietor of this column put himself through the rigors of the New York City Marathon. He did it again the other morning to see what, if anything, had changed. Not much, as it turned out.
Mind you, we are not talking about running the marathon. There are just so many allotted heartbeats in this life. Why waste even one of them bouncing half-naked through city streets for 26-plus miles? This exercise, instead, involved driving the marathon route, from the starting point on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to the finish line in Central Park. 
 If you believe this was taking the easy way out, you haven't tried grappling with traffic lately. New York's new long-distance king and queen, John Kagwe of Kenya and Franca Fiacconi of Italy, would probably quit in disgust were they to move so slowly.
No fewer than 217 marathoners finished the course on Sunday in less time than it took to drive it: 2 hours and 43 minutes.The good news is that this was 8 minutes faster than the 2:51 recorded the last time out. But it hardly qualified as blockbuster improvement. More than likely, it was the result of dumb luck, especially on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, which happened to be unusually clear from the 80's to the 60's. It took only 11 minutes to navigate a 20-block stretch that chewed up 23 minutes in 1995, and still does on many days.
In the end, the average driving speed over nearly three hours came to 9.6 miles an hour. Not exactly a pace one would call dizzying.
But then, the gimmicky drive was merely a graphic way to illustrate what every New Yorker already knew: traffic here is a misery and, if anything, it keeps getting worse. One leg of the marathon, a jaunt across the Queensboro Bridge into Manhattan, went straight to the heart of the problem.
It took 20 minutes, from 9:51 to 10:11 A.M., to cross the East River. Seven minutes were lost just trying to get onto the Queensboro from an access road. And this was well past the morning rush, when battalions of commuters lose hours of their lives each year idling on the bridge and contemplating the joys of early retirement.
Almost every vehicle in sight on the Queensboro the other morning carried only the driver. That's the problem. Virtually nothing is being done to encourage people to ditch the car and use mass transit, the only sensible way to get around midtown and lower Manhattan. Quite the contrary. The present Mayor, a product of car-loving Long Island, has praised the automobile as important to New York's economic development, though many experts beg to differ.
With about a million vehicles now pouring into -- and choking -- Manhattan each workday, perhaps attitudes at City Hall are beginning to change. Easing traffic congestion ranks "highest of the high" among the priorities set by the new Transportation Commissioner, Wilbur L. Chapman, according to his spokeswoman, Maria Smith.
GIVEN its track record, however, there is no reason to expect that the Giuliani administration will suddenly get religion on the need to keep cars out of midtown. In fairness, its predecessors did not do much on this score, either.
But some specialists say it is get-tough time. Samuel I. Schwartz, a former First Deputy Transportation Commissioner and now a private consultant, contends that drivers should be charged for the space they take up. The necessary technology, like the E-Z Pass, exists to do it.
Call it "congestion pricing." Why, Mr. Schwartz asks, shouldn't someone be obliged to pay if he insists on driving along jam-packed Fifth Avenue during the Christmas season to peek at the Rockefeller Center tree? He suggests $25 as a reasonable fee. "The latest thinking among most professionals is that congestion pricing is the way to go," he said. "We now have the mechanisms to do it. It means treating space as a commodity. In New York, it really is our most precious resource."
Not that Mr. Schwartz expects much to happen. In the Koch administration, when he and Transportation Commissioner Ross Sandler proposed the idea, "we were practically driven out of town," he said.
Still, he provided something to mull over during slow moments on the marathon route. Come to think of it, the runners might want to consider driving the course themselves some day. How can they appreciate the city's many glories when they zip by so fast?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KENYA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); KENYA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC MARATHONS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; CHAPMAN, WILBUR L (COMR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) SAMUEL I SCHWARTZ (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



167 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
From Garage for 'Taxi' on TV to Condos

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
Amid a streetscape of brownstones in the historic district of the West Village, a seven-story condominium building is rising where a taxi garage once stood, at the corner of Charles and Hudson Streets.
When completed by this spring, the structure will have 22 apartments, most of them two- and three-bedroom units, including penthouses. There will also be one unit with one bedroom, and one with four. 
 The apartments are to range in size from 880 to 2,400 square feet and in price from $395,000 to $1.1 million. The building, at 534 Hudson Street, will also contain 11,000 square feet of ground-level retail space and an equal amount of medical office space on the second floor.
The $20 million project, called the Kimberley, is being developed by the Stillman Organization of Manhattan and the property's owner, Sligo Realty and Service Corporation of the Bronx, which is owned by Gerald W. Cunningham. Another of Mr. Cunningham's companies owned and operated the taxi garage on the site, which served as the exterior setting for the television series "Taxi."
In the late 1980's, Sligo began securing some approvals to redevelop the property, including receiving permission from the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1987. Then, the real estate recession hit and Sligo shelved its plans.
But last year, with Manhattan's housing market booming, the company sought a development partner and hammered out an agreement with the Stillman Organization, pushing the project forward, said Marc J. Freud, a principal with the RAK Group, a real estate services concern that negotiated the transaction on behalf of both companies.
Under the agreement, signed in September, the partners jointly own the site and Stillman will develop the project. They will share the proceeds of the sale of the condominiums, and Sligo will retain ownership of the commercial space, Mr. Freud said.
Over the summer, Stillman, which builds high-end single-family homes and condominium apartments in the New York metropolitan area, demolished the old garage, and in September, with all approvals and permits in hand, started constructing the condominium building. Financing is coming from the developer's own equity and a $12.5 million construction loan from China Trust Bank.
Robert Stillman, vice president at the Stillman Organization, said his company became involved with the project because it offered the chance "to develop a prime site in the West Village, where available land is scarce and the demand for housing is high and the supply is low."
One indication of that is the pace of sales at the condominium building nearing completion at 99 Jane Street. Since sales opened in May, 68 of the 84 two- to four-bedroom units have been sold for $495,000 to $965,000, according to the developer, the Rockrose Development Corporation.
There are at least three other projects, with about 60 apartments, under way, with more planned. Most of the activity is in an area west of Washington Street to West Street, which is outside the Greenwich Village Historic District. Because that area lacks the barriers to development, like height restrictions, that accompany historic-district designation, some local residents are worried that the neighborhood, known for its brownstones, loft warehouses and river views, will become crowded with tall, bulky buildings.
Community Board 2 and the Federation to Preserve the Greenwich Village Waterfront are asking that the landmarks commission create a waterfront historic district to help protect the neighborhood's character, said Ben Green, executive director of the federation, which is made up of civic and business groups.
The developers of the Kimberley, which is in the historic district, are following terms of existing approvals from the commission regarding the building's design and height. It will rise seven stories and be clad in reddish-brown brick with cast-stone details "to blend with the neighborhood," said Debra S. Kossar of Kossar & Garry Architects of Manhattan, which designed the project. The penthouse floor will be set back to lessen its visibility from the street.
The partners have made interior modifications. Among them is the elimination, for economic reasons, of a proposed underground public garage that had drawn opposition from the community board and local residents because of the additional traffic it would have brought. The original number and mix of apartments, which comprised 40 studio and one-bedroom units, was also changed to the current scale and configuration.
Larger apartments in the West Village are in short supply, said Andrew J. Gerringer, a senior vice president at Douglas Elliman, a Manhattan brokerage and the exclusive selling agent for the Kimberley. "And, with rental prices out of control and mortgage interest rates at a historic low," more people may be encouraged to buy, he said.
The price for the apartments at the Kimberley is expected to average $450 a square foot, which is on par with the area, Mr. Stillman said. A typical 1,400-square-foot two-bedroom unit will cost about $630,000.
All the apartments have fireplaces and separate bedroom suites; many have balconies or private terraces. Amenities include a concierge, a landscaped rear terrace on the third floor and private storage cubicles. Monthly maintenance fees, excluding taxes, will be $407 to $1,077.
Mr. Stillman said he was under contract to buy tax certificates under New York City's 421a tax certificate program, which would phase in property taxes over 10 years, making the apartments more competitive. Without the abatement, for example, taxes on a two-bedroom unit would be $614 a month; with the abatement, they would be $50.
Sales are expected to start in January, with occupancy to begin in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2891 (TAIEX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (60%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); CHINATRUST FINANCIAL HOLDING CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



168 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Growth in Jobs SlowedSharply Last Month

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
The United States economy is still expanding, but much more slowly than in the first half of the year.
The Labor Department -- reporting on October a day ahead of schedule after some data were accidentally posted on a department Internet site -- said that employers added just 116,000 workers to their payrolls last month, the unemployment rate held steady at 4.6 percent and the hourly pay of most workers inched up slightly. 
 Though the department also said that it had badly underestimated job growth in September -- revising its initial estimate to 157,000 jobs from 59,000 -- the labor market looked weaker in October than forecasters had expected. Gains in the services and construction sectors were offset by deep cuts by manufacturers that are bearing the brunt of global economic turmoil.
"The markets for at least two weeks have been sending a very clear message that the economy is slowing but will not lapse into recession," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany. "The jobs data are very consistent with that message."
After digesting the details of the report, which was officially released in full at 1:30 P.M., stock investors focused on the positive implications; the Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 132.33 points.
The good news is that the labor market, still very tight by any historical measure, is not getting any tighter, leaving the door open, at least in principle, to further interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. At the same time, the job market has not unraveled. Job security and income growth are crucial to consumer spending, currently the economy's sole source of strength.
"The pattern is the same as for the past few months," said Tom Nardone, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "Payroll growth is tailing off, but not as dramatically as we feared."
Adjusting for the effect of the strike against the General Motors Corporation during the summer, which cut employment in July and bolstered it in August, payrolls have risen an average of 148,000 a month in the last three months compared with an average of 247,000 a month in the first seven months of the year. That is the slowest pace in the last three years.
The dichotomy between the industrial sector and the rest of the economy, evident since the Asian crisis first hit last winter, widened further in October. While the sprawling services sector added 154,000 jobs and construction payrolls expanded by 19,000, manufacturers cut employment by 52,000 jobs.
The biggest losses were in clothing and textiles, which lost 18,000 jobs, and in electronics, which lost 12,000. But there were many smaller declines scattered across industries from machinery to metals. Within manufacturing, Detroit was the only bright spot: Auto makers, which are still scrambling to keep up with strong demand and to rebuild inventories depleted by the G.M. strike, added 7,000 workers.
Nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs have disappeared since March, an important reason that consumers have begun to get nervous about the global economic outlook. John A. Challenger, whose outplacement firm, Challenger, Gray & Christmas, tracks layoff announcements, said that the cuts could be attributed largely to mergers, cost pressures and low oil prices.
Companies announced -- though did not yet carry out -- 73,000 job cuts in September and 91,000 in October, many in the oil, metals, electronics and telecommunications sectors. Last month, the three biggest cutbacks were announced by the Halliburton Company and Schlumberger Ltd., two oil-services companies, and the Bell Atlantic Corporation.
"These were kinds of numbers we were seeing in 1993 at the peak of the downsizing wave," Mr. Challenger said. His layoff figures had been running as little as 20,000 a month as recently as last fall.
Hiring in the services sector picked up last month, though the pace did not match that of earlier this year. Computer and other business services, which had been down in September, added 58,000 jobs. Work at temporary-help companies rose by 21,000 positions, but the levels were still below the peak set in June.
As businesses turned to outsiders for advice, computer, engineering and management services kept hiring; employment grew by 13,000. And so did financial-services companies, which added 18,000 jobs, a large part in mortgage banking, after no growth in September.
"We'd create more jobs if we could find the workers," said Bill Dunkelberg, chief economist of the Federation of Independent Business. That organization's monthly survey of small businesses, which was also released yesterday, shows that 32 percent of its members still had openings that they could not fill.
Total hours worked, a rough indicator of the growth of the nation's gross domestic product, edged up two-tenths of 1 percent, suggesting that output as well as employment expanded in October. In an anomaly -- given the sharp drop in employment -- total hours worked rose in manufacturing as well.
Hourly earnings, meanwhile, barely edged up, rising by a penny, to $12.89. If the numbers are to be believed, wage inflation is slowing. The 12-month increases, which peaked at 4.4 percent in June, were down to 3.6 percent.
Most economists, however, consider this series less reliable than the Labor Department's broader employment cost index, which indicates that wage inflation rose during the summer.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); TEXTILES (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA JOHN A CHALLENGER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



169 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Early Report Roils Markets, But Stocks Post Gains
The premature release by the Labor Department of sensitive job figures caused a rally in the bond market, whipsawing traders who had bet on bond declines ahead of the Government's auction of $10 billion in 30-year Treasuries. They had hoped to distribute the new supply of bonds before the release of the job report that had been scheduled for today. The rally later retreated, and the yield on the 30-year bond finished at 5.34 percent, up from 5.32 percent. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, down as much as 68 points in late morning, rebounded smartly, setting the pace for other gauges with a gain of 132.33 points, or 1.51 percent, to 8,915.47. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.18 points, or 1.36 percent, to 1,133.85. The Nasdaq rose 13.53 points, or seven-tenths of a percent. Page C9.
 
The New York Stock Exchange loosened the curbs on computer trading that take effect when the market shifts quickly. C10.
 
Tougher Emission Rules in California
California became the first state to require cars, minivans and nearly all sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks to meet identical and much more stringent emissions rules, despite strong objections by auto makers. C2.
 
Microsoft Judge's Temper Frays
Increasingly frustrated with the slow pace of the antitrust trial against Microsoft, the presiding judge stepped forcefully into the courtroom proceedings, repeatedly rebuking Microsoft's lawyer and then asking the witness, an Apple Computer executive, a long series of questions that went directly to the heart of the case against the software giant. C8.
 
Sprint Introduces One-Price Plan
Breaking with longstanding practice in the $80 billion long-distance market, Sprint introduced an all-you-can-eat pricing plan that allows consumers to make unlimited long-distance calls on the weekend for $25 a month. C20.
 
Steelmakers Want Imports Curbed
Steelmakers asked the Clinton Administration to cut off the import of extremely low-cost steel, much of it originating from the economically distressed countries of Brazil, Russia and South Korea that depend on America's huge market. The steel industry's demand illustrated the growing tensions caused by a widening American trade deficit, which Charlene Barshefsky, the top U.S. trade official, above, has estimated could reach $300 billion this year. C2.
 
Possible Tax Reduction in Japan
In an effort to strengthen its hold on power, Japan's Liberal Democratic Party may agree to opposition demands for a temporary reduction of the 5 percent sales tax. An increase in that tax last year is widely blamed for worsening Japan's economic problems by discouraging consumption. C2.
 
Britain Lowers Interest Rates
After a slew of European interest-rate reductions, the Bank of England ordered a larger-than-expected cut in a key rate, half a percentage point, to 6.75 percent. It was the second reduction in a month, reflecting heightened anxiety over slower economic growth both in Britain and abroad. C3.
 
Korean Car Maker Acquired
Creditor banks approved Hyundai's takeover of Kia, a fellow South Korean auto maker, ending a protracted process of auctioning off the bankrupt concern. C2.
 
Interpublic Buys Agency
Interpublic Group of Companies said that it had bought the Gillespie agency in Lawrenceville, N.J., for an estimated $20 million. The move continues a Madison Avenue takeover spree. Advertising. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8.915.47 up 132.33
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.34% up 0.02
The Dollar -- 117.57 yen up 1.07
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows change in consumer borrowing from March through April. Expected September figure: +$4.7 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (85%); TAX RELIEF (83%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (71%); JUDGES (70%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (68%); PRODUCT PRICING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); PICKUP TRUCKS (66%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SALES TAX (60%); TAX LAW (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



170 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Security Council Condemns Intransigence by Iraq
The Security Council voted unanimously to condemn Iraq and to demand that President Saddam Hussein cooperate with United Nations arms inspectors. But the Council did not authorize or even mention the use of force to back its demand. A1
 
The United States moved ahead with preparations for air strikes, Administration and other Western officials said. President Clinton said Iraq's decision to end cooperation was "unacceptable" and he suggested that the United States was prepared to act soon if Iraq did not reverse its decision. A8 

Storm's Worst Devastation
Hurricane Mitch and the floods that followed it have killed at least 9,000 people in Central America. But no single place was hit harder than Posoltega, Nicaragua, a cluster of poor farm settlements near the Honduran border, where at least 1,500 people died in a series of landslides. A1
 
Mitch, downgraded to a tropical storm, struck Florida on Wednesday night, but caused only moderate damage as it moved back into the Atlantic. A6
 
Stop-and-Go Mideast Accord
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu convened his Cabinet to ratify the Israeli-Palestinian accord after a delay that established what is likely to be a pattern of Israeli ultimatums, Palestinian protests and American mediation. A8
 
Arguments to Detain Pinochet
Lawyers in London seeking to overturn a High Court ruling last week that granted the former Chilean dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, freedom from arrest argued that legal decisions around the world had long denied the protection of sovereign immunity to people charged with crimes like genocide and torture. A6
 
France Backs Kosovo Mission
The French Government, dismissing doubts about France's support for NATO in Kosovo after a French officer was charged with passing bombing plans to Serbia, offered to lead the allied force that is to protect international observers in the Serbian province. A7
 
Rise in Swiss Anti-Semitism
Anti-Semitism has spread in Switzerland in reaction to the recent scrutiny of the country's wartime actions, a Swiss Government commission said. A yearlong study found that inhibitions against the open expression of racist views had been swept away during the controversy over Switzerland's responsibility to compensate survivors of the Holocaust and their heirs. A8
 
U.S. Envoy Ends Africa Mission
Susan E. Rice, the United States Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, ended a weeklong trip to Africa by again urging a political solution to the war in Congo, which has drawn in neighboring countries and threatens to widen into a larger regional conflict. A12
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A14-31
 
Anger Over Election Fuels Uprising Against Gingrich
Republican fury at Speaker Newt Gingrich over the party's performance on Tuesday boiled over. Representative Robert L. Livingston is making an effort to replace Mr. Gingrich, who is fighting back. Representative Matt Salmon said he and six other Republicans would not vote for Mr. Gingrich, one vote more than needed to deny the Speakership to Mr. Gingrich, raising the possibility of a Democrat's becoming speaker despite a Republican majority. A1
 
Blacks made up about the same share of the national electorate on Tuesday as they did four years ago, but their numbers increased significantly in crucial Southern states. A1
 
The Republican National Committee chose Philadelphia for the party's national convention in 2000. A22
 
Hyde Asks Clinton to Help
The House Judiciary Committee chairman, Henry J. Hyde, asked President Clinton in a letter to help expedite the impeachment inquiry by accepting or denying 81 findings from the Starr report, mainly involving lying under oath, witness tampering and obstruction of justice. White House lawyers declined to comment. A1
 
Lawyers for Paula Corbin Jones told the White House that she would agree to drop her suit against President Clinton for $950,000, but the offer was declined, lawyers said. A31
 
Cultivating the Root of Life
Scientists have picked out and cultivated the primordial cells from which an entire human is created. The cells, derived from fertilized human eggs, could be used to grow tissue for transplants or introduce new or improved genes. But the advance raises ethical and legal issues. A1
 
H.I.V. Acts Faster in Women
Women with H.I.V. may be at a more advanced stage of infection and at higher risk than men with identical results on certain blood tests. A18
 
U.S. Sues State Over Inmates
The Justice Department accused Louisiana of failing to protect young inmates from brutality and of providing inadequate education and medical and mental health care. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Hospital Fined for Lapses In Death of an Outpatient
The State Department of Health fined Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan $30,000 for violating more than a dozen medical standards that, the department said, resulted in the death of a 30-year-old woman who had undergone a routine outpatient procedure -- the removal of a benign fibroid tumor from her uterus. B1
 
Questions About a Witness
A crucial prosecution witness in the trial of a 20-year-old man accused of murdering Jonathan M. Levin, a Bronx High School teacher, testified that she hears voices and had received psychiatric care. B1
 
CUNY Harassment Allegations
Six female employees in the CUNY accounting office have filed a Federal lawsuit accusing the university controller, Anthony Hladek Jr., of sexual harassment and of fostering a climate of sexual harassment in his office. B3
 
Brooklyn Judge Investigated
Federal agents are investigating whether Justice Gerald S. Held, who sits in the civil division of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, did illegal favors for lawyers and litigants, Federal and state officials said. B3
 
Mayor Assails Sex Shop Ruling
Mayor Giuliani ridiculed a court ruling that allowed a strip club operating within 500 feet of a church to remain open because it admitted minors, saying it was "one of the jerkiest rulings" he had seen. B4
 
WEEKEND B1-32; B33-48
 
FASHION B11
 
OBITUARIES C21
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Free Agents Go Free
Bernie Williams, Mo Vaughn, Randy Johnson and Kevin Brown, the elite of this year's market, and 130 other baseball free agents can sign with any team beginning today. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Markets Are Seen to Calm
The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, said investors and lenders appeared to be calming down after the fright thrown into them by global financial turmoil, suggesting that the central bank was less concerned than a few weeks ago that a credit squeeze could derail the economy. C1
 
The Bank of England cut a key rate by half a percentage point, to 6.75 percent, reflecting heightened anxiety over slower economic growth. C3
 
Economic Expansion Slowing
The Labor Department said employers added just 116,000 workers to their payrolls last month, the unemployment rate held steady at 4.6 percent and the hourly pay of most workers inched up slightly. C1
 
Part of the report was prematurely posted on the Internet. C8
 
Merger Proposal Reconsidered
The French drug maker Rhone-Poulenc and Hoechst of Germany are again pondering a merger that would create one of the largest sellers of pharmaceutical and agricultural products. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: Mr. Hyde's impeachment schedule; helping the victims of the hurricane; Gail Collins on Newt Gingrich's troubles.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E46
 
Weather D4
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFRICA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (50%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); KOSOVO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFRICA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); WEATHER (75%); HURRICANES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); IMMUNITY (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); HOLOCAUST (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); SUSAN RICE (57%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%); MATT SALMON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



171 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: California to Toughen Its Emissions Standards

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Despite strong objections from Detroit's Big Three auto makers, environmental regulators in California voted tonight to require cars, minivans and nearly all sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks to meet identical and much more stringent emissions rules.
Tonight's vote makes California the first state to impose car emissions standards on so-called light trucks, a category that includes sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks. Regulated as work vehicles, light trucks have been allowed until now to emit up to three times as much pollution per mile as cars. 
 The Environmental Protection Agency is working on new emissions rules that, like the new California regulations, would start with the 2004 model year.
Auto makers and environmentalists lobbied California regulators with particular zeal because the E.P.A. is widely expected to follow the outlines of California's models, although possibly with slightly higher limits on some emissions because the rest of the country tends to have cleaner air.
The California Air Resources Board, which regulates the state's air quality, not only approved a staff proposal for stricter standards but actually made it even tougher by eliminating a clause that would have allowed diesel-powered cars and light trucks to meet less strict rules.
All of Detroit's Big Three and several foreign auto makers are working on fuel-efficient diesel engines for their sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks so they can meet Federal fuel-economy regulations while continuing to make these vehicles bigger and bigger.
Requiring diesel vehicles to meet the same rules as gasoline-powered vehicles "makes it extremely difficult to market a diesel vehicle in California," said Richard Varenchik, a spokesman for the air resources board.
Detroit's Big Three auto makers -- the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation -- had agreed with state regulators that minivans, midsized sport utility vehicles like the Jeep Cherokee and midsized pickups like the Ford Ranger should start to meet car pollution standards. They objected strongly but unsuccessfully to the California regulators' decision to apply car pollution standards as well to full-sized pickup trucks like the Dodge Ram and full-sized sport utility vehicles like the Cadillac Escalade and Chevrolet Tahoe.
These big vehicles have much larger engines that are designed to haul heavy loads and pull trailers, and tend to pollute more than cars.
Auto makers here were dismayed by tonight's unanimous decision by the air board's 11 members.
"Make no mistake, this is going to be really difficult," said Sara Tatchio, a spokeswoman for Ford. Full-sized sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks sold in California may become less powerful, with less capacity to haul freight or trailers, as a result of today's decision, she said.
Regulators calculated that the cost of complying with the new rules would be $96 to $304 for each vehicle, but the auto makers warned that the cost could be far higher for full-sized sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. The very largest pickup trucks, as well as four-wheel-drive Chevrolet Suburbans and even bigger sport utility vehicles that Ford will introduce next year, will qualify for less stringent rules.
The new rules do not require any further regulatory or legislative action before taking effect, but could be challenged in court, although auto makers have historically avoided doing so. It takes two to five years to make significant alterations in automobile designs, so auto makers can seldom afford to wait for the result of a lengthy court battle before beginning to make the changes.
Today's vote will force drastic reductions in pollution from full-sized sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. The new rules will require, for example, that cars only emit a quarter of their current output of nitrogen oxides, which are thought to be an important contributor to smog. By requiring full-sized sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks to meet the new car standards, instead of continuing to be allowed to emit three times as much, California is asking that nitrogen oxide emissions from these vehicles be cut to one-twelfth of their current levels.
Cars and light trucks already produce far less pollution per mile now than they did in the 1950's. But this improvement has been partly undone because there are more vehicles and they are driven farther.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; AUTOMOBILES; VANS MOTOR VEHICLES (98%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



172 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Clinton Pressed for Curbs on Steel Imports

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
President Clinton came face-to-face today with the political costs of the world economic crisis, meeting with steel executives and union leaders who are demanding that Washington cut off the import of extremely low-cost steel -- much of it from Brazil, Russia and South Korea.
Steel imports into the United States have surged by more than 75 percent in recent months, and the United Steelworkers of America, a union the White House cannot afford to antagonize after it helped mobilize Democratic votes on Tuesday, has been insisting for months that the Administration take action. 
 Almost all the country's major steelmakers, which have staged a remarkable comeback in recent years, are now starting to cut production, and some have begun layoffs as prices for steel decline to some of the lowest levels in six years.
But Mr. Clinton, as one of his economic aides said the other day, has "no good options." Any move to limit the flow of low-cost steel here runs the risk of undercutting the recovery of some nations that are hardest hit by the economic crisis. Moreover, this would increase costs for auto makers, construction companies and other manufacturers -- potentially making their goods less competitive.
So in long meetings and dinners with Commerce Secretary William M. Daley and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, among others, the union officials and top executives -- who rarely find themselves on the same side of a bargaining table -- have been engaged in a detailed debate over Mr. Clinton's choices.
The most likely option is that the President would put pressure on producing countries to reduce steel exports to the United States, a step Japanese officials say they are already taking. At the White House meeting this evening, Mr. Clinton indicated he would take up the issue this month, during an Asian trip.
Eventually, Washington could raise tariffs on imported steel. But it could only impose those "anti-dumping duties" if the United States International Trade Commission found that the imported steel was being sold here at unfairly low prices, causing injury to American companies. Such duties were recently imposed on stainless steel coil plate imported from Taiwan, South Africa, Italy, Canada and South Korea.
But in the broader complaint by the steel industry, the case may not be clear-cut. Foreign officials insist that some of the price cuts did not result from dumping, but were made possible by the sharp devaluation of Asian and Russian currencies. That exchange-rate advantage makes all goods imported from those countries less expensive in the United States.
In fact, the surge in exports from the hardest-hit countries is exactly what the International Monetary Fund has tacitly been seeking as a way to increase foreign-currency reserves and rescue faltering economies. Export increases are factored into the I.M.F.'s recovery plans for several nations, especially Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged the problem at a meeting with steel officials last month, noting that "the yen got too weak, and it led, for example, to the breathtaking imports of Japanese steel, which hurt a lot of our industry, people and workers." But aides said that after further study, they found the problem to be immensely complicated -- and that every proposed solution carried a significant cost. "If you take measures to protect the steel industry, it hurts the auto industry," a White House official said recently. "Eventually, that hurts sales and other workers."
The industry argues that the damage is already starting. Weirton Steel, the seventh-largest producer, has said recently that it is laying off 300 workers, or nearly 9 percent of its hourly work force, and that it may have to dismiss more people.
The Clinton Administration needs the steelworkers. Vice President Al Gore has been wooing the industry's leaders, who are suspicious of the Administration's free-trade policies, and opposed the effort to expand the President's right to negotiate trade agreements on a "fast track" basis. Arguments on that are likely to be revived next year.
One measure of the political resonance of the issue came in the attendance at tonight's session in the Cabinet Room. In addition to Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, those who joined the meeting included Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, Secretary Rubin, Secretary Daley and the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky. The steel industry officials included Curtis H. Barnette, chief executive of Bethlehem Steel, Paul Wilhelm of U.S. Steel, and George Becker, president of the United Steelworkers.
Mr. Becker has insisted on quotas limiting the import of foreign steel; the industry officials have not publicly joined him in calling for that action. But all of them, a participant in the meeting said, pressed for quick action. Mr. Clinton made no commitments.

 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; RUSSIA; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); CURRENCIES (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



173 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Labor Fight Becoming a Falk-Stern Clash

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Keith Glass recalled the time a few years ago when David Falk was talking about how Michael Jordan needed to be financially rewarded by the Chicago Bulls. As a low-profile agent who represents a much more modest clientele than the agent Falk, Glass finally interjected.
"After a while I couldn't take it," Glass said. "I mean, I'm the anti-David. I represent different kinds of players. He was talking about Michael getting paid. I told him I have a Michael, too. Michael Peplowski. That's the player I'm worried about." 
 Now that David Stern, the National Basketball Association commissioner, has accused Falk of trying to detonate an agreement between owners and players that would end the league's lockout, Falk's power and potential influence have become an issue in the negotiations.
Stern's claim, that Falk is looking out for his prominent clients while ignoring the N.B.A.'s eroding middle class, was seen by the union as an attempt to form a chasm between the Jordans and the Peplowskis.
After saying he didn't take Stern's comments personally Wednesday, Falk shot back yesterday.
"This is a wake-up call for the players, because this is exactly what the league did three years ago and the players fell for it three years ago," Falk said. "They fell for the fact that the league was saying the agents were only trying to protect the top 30 or 40 players.
"If the mass of players listens to that tired saw David Stern is using again, they're going to be even more disadvantaged than they were three years ago."
Replied Stern: "There is a deal on the table, and David Falk is trying to kill it. Is that for the betterment for mankind? I don't think so."
The salvos fired back and forth between the game's most powerful agent and its omnipotent commissioner have been indicative of recent negotiations: a lot of posturing and little progress. A union official said a meeting between the chief negotiators on both sides is scheduled for today in Manhattan; the union has told the N.B.A. it hopes to forward a new proposal to the league office by early next week.
It appears nothing will prevent the league from losing its fifth week of games to labor strife; after canceling the rest of November last week, league officials said that every week a deal was not signed would mean another week of games canceled.
Until headway is made through a bargaining session, the season is on hold. At the center of the talks is an escrow system proposed by the owners that would give money back to the teams if the players' share of income reached an agreed-upon threshold. Economic divide is regarded as the main issue. But there are egos involved, too.
"I don't run the union, but I certainly want to have influence because of my clients," Falk said.
"I'm like a congressman. And my district is Ewing, Jordan, etc. But I also have people in my district named Jaren Jackson and Rex Chapman, and I have to make sure the rules protect all of them. Ewing and Jordan are paying me enough lobbying fees to make sure the less-advantaged people in my district are taken care of."
Stern said in response: "If David has suddenly became a man of the people, then he should love the N.B.A. owners' proposal. I'll assume he will join me in applauding the proposal that benefits 80 percent of the constituents that he says he represents."
Glass and Falk, along with Mark Bartelstein and Arn Tellem, whom Stern also mentioned by name as being a divisive force in negotiations, met yesterday with the union's executive director, Billy Hunter. Also present were Patrick Ewing of the Knicks, the players association president, and union lawyers.
A union official said the meeting was planned before the week's charges and countercharges developed, but nonetheless it made for interesting subject matter beyond the economic issues.
"I don't agree with a lot of what David Falk believes," Glass said, "but this is clearly a campaign to drive a wedge between us."
Publicly, the league's 400-plus players have been unified, but there is a feeling of angst developing on both sides.
"It's too bad," Glass said, "but I don't see anything happening quick."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS; AGENTS (BUSINESS) BASKETBALL (94%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; STERN, DAVID (COMR); FALK, DAVID MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



174 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
FERTILIZER COMPANY SAYS IT WILL ELIMINATE 530 JOBS

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
IMC Global Inc., one of the world's largest fertilizer companies, said yesterday that it would cut 530 jobs, or about 5.9 percent of its work force, as part of a drive to reduce costs, increase profit and accelerate growth. IMC will immediately begin to cut 180 jobs, primarily at its phosphate operations and administrative offices, through a combination of dismissals and early retirement. An additional 350 positions will be cut in the next nine months as IMC shuts plants and mining operations in Florida and Louisiana. IMC, which had 1997 sales of about $3 billion, said the moves were part of a revamping started in September. IMC, based in Northbrook, Ill., had about 8,950 employees as of the end of last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MOS (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325312 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (95%); SIC2874 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: IMC GLOBAL INC MOSAIC CO (95%); MOSAIC FERTILIZER INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMC GLOBAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (90%); DISMISSALS (88%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); MINES & MINING (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



175 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
LEVI STRAUSS TO FURLOUGH 4,000 WORKERS FOR 2 MONTHS

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Levi Strauss & Company announced yesterday that it would furlough about 4,000 workers in December and January. The company, based in San Francisco, will idle 718 workers in McAllen, Tex.; 473 in San Benito, Tex.; 643 in Brownsville, Tex.; 424 in Wichita Falls, Tex.; 879 in Valdosta, Ga.; 519 in Mountain City, Tenn., and 381 in Murphy, N.C. The plants make the basic Levi's five-pocket jeans, for which there is not much demand, a company spokeswoman, Tamara Churchman, said. She would not speculate on the possible closing of any of the plants but said they were all scheduled to reopen in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (92%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO LEVI STRAUSS & CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEVI STRAUSS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (92%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); JEANS (APPAREL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



176 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: U.N., Avoiding Talk of Force, Criticizes Iraq on Arms Team

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The Security Council voted unanimously today to condemn Iraq and demand that President Saddam Hussein rescind his ban on cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors. But the Council stopped short of authorizing or even mentioning the use of force to back its demand.
The resolution, making formal the outrage first expressed by Council members on Saturday after Iraq effectively shut down the arms monitoring system, comes in the face of reports that the United States may be preparing for military action against Iraq. 
 President Clinton tonight called on Iraq to comply immediately with United Nations demands, saying its refusal was unacceptable. Mr. Clinton also emphasized that "all options are on the table" for the Administration, including military action.
American officials argue that they already have ample authority to attack Iraq under previous resolutions, and today the Clinton Administration moved ahead with preparations for air strikes, Administration and Western officials said. Page A8 .
But several Council members warned against that course.
Russia's representative, Sergey Lavrov, who said that his Government had been lobbying Iraq to change its policy, added that the only way out of the impasse was through diplomatic and political means. Nothing in today's measure "could be interpreted arbitrarily as a kind of permission to use force," he said.
"Any attempt to resolve the problem by using force," Mr. Lavrov went on, "would entail highly unpredictable and dangerous consequences both for the capacity of the United Nations to continue to monitor proscribed military activities in Iraq and for peace and stability in the region and in the Middle East as a whole."
Brazil's representative, Celso Luiz Nunes Amorim, said in an interview on Wednesday that there was a sense among a number of Council members that Iraq's noncompliance was not enough to provoke military action. "If they did some physical damage or expelled everybody, that would be different," he said.
But today the Brazilian and Russian representatives joined a stream of speakers expressing frustration and anger over Mr. Hussein's seemingly self-destructive move, given the diplomatic strides Iraq made earlier in the year. Several diplomats speculated that the Iraqi President may be more out of touch or under strain than outsiders thought.
The resolution comes under a section of the United Nations charter that makes it enforceable by military action. But there is typically a challenge to that view, especially when the resolution does not explicitly threaten military force.
 For a year Iraq has been stepping up pressure for the lifting of sanctions imposed after its invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, and the Council repeatedly said this would not happen until Baghdad answered all outstanding questions on its weapons programs. Last week the Iraqi leadership said it had run out of patience.
Alain Dejammet, the French representative, said that the only way to make progress "toward lifting sanctions from which the Iraqi people are suffering is for Iraq to rescind without delay the unjustifiable measures of Oct. 31."
France withdrew its charge d'affaires from Baghdad today to protest the Iraqi bans.
Iraq first cut back cooperation with arms inspectors on Aug. 5, then said on Saturday that it would end all dealings with the United Nations Special Commission, known as Unscom, while allowing the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue some of its work.
Today Unscom officials reviewed the status of their staff in Baghdad, where only maintenance work on monitoring equipment has been permitted. Charles Duelfer, deputy executive chairman of the commission, said in an interview that perhaps up to 20 of about 120 people might be withdrawn over the next few days. They would include a visiting team sent to observe Iraqi missile tests and some members of regular monitoring teams who are not needed since inspection and monitoring activities have been frozen.
The American threat is being taken seriously among Arab leaders, who have urged Baghdad to rethink its harsh stand against inspections. A letter from the Arab League to Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, President Hussein's spokesman on the inspection issue, urged the Iraqis to adopt a "flexible" position, the league's representative at the United Nations said today.
"We're very concerned about an escalation and the use of force to settle this problem," said the envoy, Hussein Hassouna. "It would be better to negotiate, to convince the Iraqis to cooperate." Mr. Hassouna said that Arab nations feared that the whole region could be unsettled by another battering of Iraq.
Today's resolution restates the Council's support for the Special Commission, which has been under constant attack by the Iraqi leadership, which wants it restructured and its chairman, Richard Butler, replaced.
But there has been little or no discussion in a week of debate about how to insure that meaningful inspections take place again if Iraq lifts its ban. During months of confrontations with Iraq, arms experts have seen the inspections panel, created both to disarm Iraq and to prevent it from rearming, get whittled down with each crisis.
Getting the inspectors back to work, these experts say, will require more than a return to the status quo before August, when spot inspections were barred.
The inspectors, from the United Nations Special Commission, will have to be strengthened, in this view. Despite American protests, these arms experts and some members of the Council say this strengthening does not appear to be high on the American agenda.
American diplomats insist that American policy has not changed. But comments in recent months from Administration officials in Washington reflect a preference for maintaining tight sanctions with the unified backing of the Security Council, rather than risking a rupture of the common front by forcing an intrusive policing of arms programs.
The common front has maintained tough sanctions on Iraq's oil sales, other aspects of its economy and such things as travel to the country.
But arms experts worry that without strict vigilance, Iraq would try to rebuild its arsenal. David Albright, president of the independent Institute for Science and International Security in Washington, said, "My sense is that the U.S. Government thinks that sanctions alone can do the job," of keeping Iraq isolated and preventing it from being a danger internationally. But in his view, full inspections are essential.
Mr. Albright, a former inspector in Iraq for the International Atomic Energy Agency, said the atomic energy agency and Unscom are at the critical juncture, between disarming Iraq and setting up a system of long-term monitoring to prevent President Hussein from rearming.
Noting Iraq's stepped-up interference with monitoring activities and its rejection of on-the-spot inspections, arms experts say the value of remote inspection systems seems to have diminished considerably. The remote inspections involve 135 video cameras in 20 locations and air, soil and water sensors and sniffers.
William Scott Ritter, an American specialist in Iraqi concealment methods who resigned from Unscom in August to protest what he said was a muzzling of inspectors, called the monitoring system "a joke." In an interview on Tuesday, he said that many cameras were placed haphazardly and hurriedly in stationary positions in storage areas or production plants, some watching machine tools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAVROV, SERGEI SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



177 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Risking Life, Limb and Capital;
U.S. Companies Operate in Colombia, but Very Carefully

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia

 BODY:
The note was scrawled on a scrap of paper and thrust at a truck driver for a United States oil company stopped on a rebel-held highway to the eastern plains of Colombia recently. "Please do us the favor of coming to talk to us, so we can reach agreements allowing you to work without problems," the note said. "If you do not come, we will not be responsible for the consequences."
The company passed the extortion demand, penned in oddly formal, misspelled Spanish, to Colombian military intelligence. Executives at the multinational concern, who asked that the company not be identified, did not give in to insurgents, but ordered their drivers to skirt the area by taking other roads. 
 The company could alter its routes and still conduct business, said Enrique Urrea, head of a committee of security chiefs for United States multinationals operating in Colombia. "Not everybody can," he added.
A Colombian soft drink manufacturer, defying similar demands from the insurgents, had 54 of its trucks burned. In September, the rebels kidnapped three drivers and executed one to put pressure on the company. "If they give up a road, they lose a market," Mr. Urrea said. He asked that the company not be named, saying publicity could endanger the lives of the remaining hostages.
Though the new Government of Andres Pastrana seeks peace talks with the country's three rebel movements in an effort to end three decades of civil war, Colombia remains one of the riskiest places in the world to do business. Threats to foreigners come from random street crimes, kidnappers, extortion, vandalism and sudden roadblocks thrown up by rebel factions vying for power.
Half of all reported kidnappings in the world happen in Colombia; 806 occurred in the first half of this year and 1,693 last year, the Presidential Anti-Kidnapping Office says. More people are murdered in this nation of 36 million than in the entire United States, which has nearly eight times the population. In 1996, the last year for which figures are available, the Federal Bureau of Investigation reported 19,645 homicides; in Colombia, there were 26,627.
While the central Government holds Bogota and the larger cities, the countryside is fragmenting into a collection of fiefs controlled by rebels or by right-wing paramilitaries that terrorize peasants, often in collusion with army officers and the police. Foreign businesses are particularly vulnerable to kidnappings and extortion and kickback demands from the rebels. Security costs, which average 4 percent of a company's operating costs in the rest of the developing world, can run up to 10 percent here, security experts and company executives say.
Despite the limitations and risks, a variety of United States companies have opened offices and factories in Colombia, particularly since the country acted in the early 1990's to lower trade barriers and otherwise open the economy to foreign investment. They include Occidental Petroleum, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Kellogg, DuPont and Citigroup.
Some businesses have left, but those that stay in Colombia have learned to protect their interests. To discourage kidnappings, they employ Colombian executives and use local contractors. They hire such multinational security services as Control Risks Group and Defense Systems Ltd., both based in London; the Ackerman Group of Miami, and the Kroll-O'Gara Company, in New York, to tailor security packages for their executives, installations and trade secrets.
Insurance companies, sometimes working directly with protection services, often demand strict security precautions from United States executives in Colombia, said Joseph A. Finnin, head of the American Chamber of Commerce here. One insisted that not only an oil company president but also his wife use bodyguards and armored cars.
The security services also analyze the risks of doing business with a given Colombian company, perusing court records for potential legal or tax problems. Earlier this fall, Kroll-O'Gara bought a factory for making armored cars in Colombia, said Bruce Goslin, a managing director of the company's office in Miami.
Because of security worries, foreigners largely confine themselves to a small, safe piece of this grimy, bustling city. They take apartments on the upper floors instead of houses, and only in the priciest neighborhoods. They vary routes, switching vehicles and vetting maids, nannies and gardeners with a thoroughness J. Edgar Hoover might have envied. And they fly, rather than drive, if they must leave Bogota.
Oil companies pay a special war tax to the Government, and they contract with the Defense Ministry for special army platoons to protect oil exploration and production sites or dangerous highways. As threats to their business escalate, foreign companies are sharing security information and tightening their lines of communication with Colombia's military intelligence service.
Through the committee that Mr. Urrea heads, the chiefs of security for 65 of the largest companies in Colombia, most of them from the United States, are in constant contact through beepers that flash bulletins. Mr. Urrea heads security operations for Esso, the Colombian subsidiary of Exxon. On one recent day, his beeper warned of a strike by 700,000 civil servants that was paralyzing roads, telecommunications, hospitals and airports.
The Colombian military sends the committee daily intelligence reports and other information, while the police provide financial profiles of potential or actual employees. "If there's no information, there's no power," Mr. Urrea said.
For Armando Lara, a former F.B.I. officer who heads Latin American operations for Control Risks, that maxim was vividly illustrated a few years ago. Running late to a meeting with a military commander in charge of eastern Colombia, Mr. Lara flipped on the radio to hear that the commander had been killed when his car exploded a few minutes earlier. If Mr. Lara had known security was so volatile in the area, he would have avoided going there, he said.
But more information means maintaining close ties to military and police forces that have a record of chronic human rights abuses. According to Government investigators and human rights groups, army and police officers have colluded with the right-wing paramilitaries, which roam the countryside, terrorizing and massacring peasants.
Last summer, the 20th Intelligence Brigade, which supplied information to every branch of the military, was disbanded, with numerous officers facing criminal charges of running death squads and carrying out political assassinations. For more than a year, the State Department has been combing the human rights files of the Colombian Army, seeking units with clean records to receive aid to combat narcotics. But the human rights problems are so pervasive that only one unit has been cleared, and another had to be created fresh, culling officers and soldiers with unblemished records from scattered units.
Mr. Urrea said that most security chiefs working in the private sector are retired military officers like him who have access to the most senior officers in the Colombian military command.
"As far as I know, they are honest, but there are exceptional cases where a person, in his impotence before the situation we're living through, commits excesses and violates human rights," he said. " But that's the exception, not the rule."
Security chiefs and security firms have also been involved in negotiating ransoms, which are technically illegal in Colombia. In a famous case, Control Risks negotiated for the wife of a BASF chemical company executive, Alvaro Uribe Velez, the former governor of Antioquia province, said in an interview at the time. The hostage, Brigitte Schone, was eventually released when a German spy couple, Werner and Isabel Mauss, elbowed Control Risks aside and paid rebels a ransom of $1.5 million -- 10 times the amount the company had bargained the ransom down to. The case set off an international incident when the Mausses were briefly arrested trying to leave the country with the freed hostage, using false passports provided by the German Government. Control Risks declined to comment on the case.
(In the latest illustration of the shadowy ties that run Colombia, the Mausses emerged last summer as behind-the-scenes figures arranging peace talks in Germany between the rebels and Colombian business and church representatives.)
It is also illegal to pay extortion in Colombia. Most large United States companies do not surrender to extortion, Mr. Lara of Control Risks said, but added, "So many have a policy of subcontracting to Colombian firms, and Colombians feel, especially operating in rural areas, that they've got to pay to keep themselves safe."
The most costly threat to foreign businesses has been attacks on oil pipelines. The attacks have not ceased even as the Government prepares to open talks with the largest insurgent group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, in an effort to end the civil war, which last year claimed 2,183 lives, human rights groups say.
Nestor Martinez, Interior Minister in the new Government, acknowledged that lack of security is a serious hindrance to doing business in Colombia. "Of course, we have problems, like all other developing countries," he said, "but we're dealing with them, and we're beginning peace talks with the guerrillas."
Of the four major American oil companies working here-- Exxon, Amoco, Chevron and Occidental Petroleum -- perhaps no company has been more battered by the instability than Occidental. Oxy Colombia, as the company's local office is known, pumps 160,000 barrels a day of crude from its complex at Cano Limon, near the Venezuelan border.
So far this year, rebels have blown up the pipeline 61 times. Last year, rebels bombed the pipeline 64 times and started striking closer to home, at the wellheads.
The rebels collect a 10 percent commission from contractors hired to repair the pipeline and wellheads, said Robert Stewart, a spokesman for Occidental.
"We're getting clobbered," he acknowledged. "It used to be the guerrillas would do their attacks and run. They're not even scrambling anymore. Now, they sit around after, have a cup of coffee and wait for the army to show up."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 6 about the dangers of doing business in Colombia described the kidnapping of the wife of a BASF chemical company executive and negotiations on her behalf by Control Risks Group, a multinational security service. The former governor of Antioquia province said that the hostage, Brigitte Schone, was eventually released after Control Risks was elbowed aside by Werner and Isabel Mauss, a German couple, who paid a ransom of $1.5 million.
In fairness, The Times should have sought a response from Mr. and Mrs. Mauss, who deny this account. They have since said that they became involved in the incident after the Colombian Government sought German help in connection with peace negotiations with a rebel guerrilla movement. But the couple said that they had no role in the payment of any ransom and that the hostage-takers were common criminals, not anti-Government rebels.
The article also referred incorrectly to Mr. and Mrs. Mauss's detention. They were held in jail for nine months, not briefly arrested. All charges against them have been dropped.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Colombia, security expenses can amount to as much as 10 percent of a company's operating costs. A security employee for the local office of Occidential Petroleum checked a car outside a building in Bogota. (Javier Galiano for The New York Times)(pg. C3); A funeral procession in Machuca, Colombia, after dozens died when rebels bombed a nearby oil pipeline on Oct. 18. (Carlos Linares/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 
Chart/Map: "Paying the Price"
Colombia is one of the riskiest places in the world to do business. Threats to foreigners come from random street crimes, kidnappers, extortion, vandalism and getting caught between warring factions. Here is an evaluation of Latin America by Kroll-O'Gara, a security services company.
 
Map of South and Central America hightlights the following areas:
 
HIGH-RISK AREAS
EXTREME: War-like situation; little or no effective protection
VERY HIGH: Political environment volatile, with frequent attacks HIGH: Daily threats, requiring extensive security efforts
 
MEDIUM-RISK AREAS
HIGH MEDIUM: Widespread organized crime; careful security planning is necessary
MEDIUM: Widespread street crime, above average health risks
 
LOW-RISK AREAS
LOW: Scattered incidents; crime avoidable with extra effort
VERY LOW: Infrequent minor incidents of terrorism
 
MINIMAL-RISK AREAS
MINIMUM: Low terrorism threat, occasional high-visibility crime
VERY MINIMUM: Extremely isolated incidents of terrorism not directed at Government or business
NEARLY NONEXISTENT: Generally safe for any travel or business
 
(Source: Kroll-O'Gara)(pg. C1)
 
Chart; "Ranking Corruption"
The 10 least and 10 most corrupt countries, according to a 1998 survey of executives. A score of 10 represents a corruption-free country.
 
RANK and SCORE
1 Denmark: 10.0
2 Finland: 9.6
3 Sweden: 9.5
4 New Zealand: 9.4
5 Iceland: 9.3
6 Canada: 9.2
7 Singapore: 9.1
8 Netherlands: 9.0
8 Norway: 9.0
10 Switzerland: 8.9
17 United States: 7.5
76 Russia: 2.4
77 Ecuador: 2.3
77 Venezuela: 2.3
79 Colombia: 2.2
80 Indonesia: 2.0
81 Nigeria: 1.9
81 Tanzania: 1.9
83 Honduras: 1.7
84 Paraguay: 1.5
85 Cameroon: 1.4
 
(Source: Transparency International)(pg. C3)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OXY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (50%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMEROON (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ECUADOR (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); 

COMPANY: OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (50%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; ; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMEROON (79%); NIGERIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ECUADOR (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; KIDNAPPING; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (94%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EXTORTION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ARMIES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BRIBERY (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); VANDALISM (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); BEVERAGE MFG (67%); SOFT DRINK MFG (67%); MURDER (52%); 

PERSON: PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES); SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998



178 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Consumer Credit Rose in September

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Borrowing by United States consumers rose in September at a pace that was faster than expected as credit card debt and personal loans accelerated, according to Federal Reserve figures released today.
Borrowing rose $8.4 billion, to $1.282 trillion, after rising $4.4 billion in August. Analysts had expected a September increase of $4.7 billion. 
 The September pace of borrowing is close to the monthly average for the last five years of $7.7 billion.
Still, the Government reported that consumers spent more than they earned in September, which may point to a further increase in borrowing in coming months, as consumer spending is holding up in advance of the holiday buying season.
Economists watch the consumer credit data to help them gauge changes in consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the gross domestic product.
Revolving loans, which include credit cards, increased $3.1 billion in September after rising $2.2 billion in August. Auto loans rose $1.9 billion in September after increasing $3.8 billion in August. Other types of installment loans increased $3.4 billion after falling $1.4 billion in August.
Consumer credit rose at a 7.9 percent annual rate during September. That was up from the 4.2 percent pace of new borrowing in August. The credit increase in August was revised down from the Fed's earlier estimate of a gain of $4.6 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



179 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Banks Grow Cautious On Scope of Aid to Brazil

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
With a $30 billion international rescue package for Brazil nearing completion, American banks, already battered by global financial turmoil, are sitting on the sidelines. Only a few weeks ago, some United States bankers, including those with the Chase Manhattan Corporation, talked openly about the possibility of bolstering the lending efforts of agencies like the International Monetary Fund by adding their own funds to any rescue package.
But banks now say they will wait for Brazil -- a far more important country to most of them than, for example, Indonesia, South Korea, or Russia -- to ask for more money before any is offered. 
 "The initiative for any private money will have to come from Brazil," said a senior American banker who requested anonymity. "I think Brazil will want to wait and see what the $30 billion credit line does to their costs in the sovereign debt markets before they make another move."
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has argued in recent weeks that any aid to Brazil has to include money from the private sector -- lest banks and other investors benefit from a bailout without suffering for any undue risks they took in Brazil. For their part, bankers face the wrath of their shareholders and regulators if they throw good money after bad.
Lingering questions remain about the ability of the Brazilian President, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, to invigorate the country's economy.
Under the circumstances, until Brazil's spending plans gain further momentum and the economic picture becomes clearer, investors are likely to remain cautious about the country. The United States banks are adopting a wait-and-see attitude.
"I believe there will be an agreement between Brazil and the I.M.F. sometime next week and immediately thereafter I believe the Brazilian Government plans a road show in the United States, Europe and Japan to discuss the country's economic programs," said William Rhodes, head of risk management for Citigroup.
A great deal is at stake for the United States financial institutions. Compared with exposure of $6.8 billion to Russia, and $44.6 billion to all Asian borrowers, United States banks had about $27.3 billion in loans and other financial exposure to Brazil as of June 30, according to Brown Brothers Harriman & Company. While more current aggregate figures are not available, the biggest United States banks in Brazil released updated information about their exposures at the end of September -- and most of them showed a sharp decline since June.
Chase has $3.8 billion in exposure to Brazil, down from $4.3 billion at the end of June; J. P. Morgan has $2.2 billion, down from $4 billion; BankAmerica has $3.3 billion, down from $3.9 billion, and BankBoston has less than $1 billion, down from $1.7 billion. Citigroup, recently formed by the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc., said it had $4.4 billion in Brazilian exposure in June but does not have more current figures. Both Citigroup and BankBoston also have large local operations in Brazil that make them the most heavily involved United States banks in the country.
"I think banks are steeling themselves for a currency devaluation," said Diane Glossman of Lehman Brothers Inc. "Mutual funds and investment banks also have a big stake in the outcome and to expect that it's appropriate for the banks to take on the responsibilities for all of these other investors is wrong."
"This is not 1982," Ms. Glossman added, referring to a time when banks were the only big investors in Latin America.
Unfortunately, any bailout package for Brazil -- with or without backing from the private sector -- may only prove to be a stopgap measure given the crushing debt schedule the country faces. Brazil has more than $150 billion in short-term debt with an average maturity of about eight months -- a huge amount of money for any country to pay back so quickly.
"If the question is $30 billion versus $35 billion, I don't think it will make a difference anyway," said Morris Goldstein, a former I.M.F. official and a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "It might look nice, but the debt payments confronting Brazil go well beyond anything $35 billion will do."
Brazil is also wrestling with having to pay interest rates of 40 percent to keep dollars from fleeing the country. While about $2 billion to $3 billion a week was being taken out of the country in recent weeks, analysts said that has now been offset by fresh funds coming in, meaning that the net capital flow is currently flat.
But the Government, with central bank reserves having dropped to about $40 billion from $70 billion over the last two months, cannot maintain sky-high interest rates indefinitely.
Ricardo Gallo, BankBoston's head of emerging markets trading and investment banking, said: "I think Brazil has about 30 to 60 days, given its current level of reserves, to work out its problems out. After that, the situation could get very bad."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MERGERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L WILLIAM C RHODES III (53%); WILLIAM C RHODES III (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



180 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Disputed 'Lolita' Spinoff Is Dropped by Publisher

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
In an abrupt reversal that ends a tangled legal and literary confrontation, Farrar, Straus & Giroux said yesterday that it had canceled plans to publish a retelling of "Lolita" from the nymphet's point of view, in part because of copyright concerns by some of the publishing house's own writers.
The estate of Vladimir Nabokov filed suit in Federal court last month to block American and British publication of the book, "Lo's Diary," by Pia Pera, an Italian short-story writer, calling it a "rip-off" of the legally protected original, published in 1955. The new novel, in the form of a diary by Lolita giving her version of the scandalous love affair with her stepfather, has been published to mixed reviews in Italy and six other countries. 
 The lawsuit, which Farrar, Straus & Giroux contested and has now agreed to settle, raised far-reaching questions that lawyers said had never been resolved by the courts, including the degree to which a character in a copyrighted literary work can be reused by another author.
Ms. Pera, reached in Italy, said she deplored the decision but that she did not plan to sue.
Lawyers said it was not clear whether MacMillan, which had planned to bring out the book in Britain and was named as a co-defendant with Farrar, Straus in the lawsuit, intended to proceed with publication.
Roger W. Straus, president and chief executive of the publishing house, said he decided to cancel its planned publication next July despite objections from his editor in chief, Jonathan Galassi, in response to concerns by some of his writers that their creations could be appropriated through the same literary license claimed by Farrar, Straus.
The publishing house is now owned by Holtzbrinck, the German publishing conglomerate, but the decision against publication was made by Mr. Straus alone, all parties agreed.
Mr. Straus said he had been questioning his decision to publish "Lo's Diary" since the uproar began. " 'Is this good for literature or bad for literature?' is the question we have been asking ourselves," he said. "Are we standing up for writers and for literature by proceeding to publish Pia Pera or by acceding to the wishes of the Nabokov estate?"
In the end, he said, "I don't think it right for any publisher to feed off the reputation of a literary person." He declined to name any of the authors who had voiced concern about the planned publication.
The cancellation was welcomed by Peter L. Skolnik, a lawyer for Dmitri Nabokov, the sole heir and executor of his father's estate. "Dmitri is, of course, enormously pleased and joins me in thinking it is the right outcome for the right reasons," Mr. Skolnik said. He said the decision to sue had also been difficult because, given the history of controversy over "Lolita," "few writers have stood more for the right of free expression than Nabokov."
But the estate had to respond to what he called "esthetic and literary vampirism," Mr. Skolnick added. If the appropriation claimed by Farrar, Straus and Ms. Pera had been allowed to stand, he said, "the next author is free to say, 'Ahh, there's a good idea: I'll tell it from the perspective of a another character.' " Why would motion picture producers pay writers for their creations "if they could just change the perspective and get away with it?" he added.
Leon Friedman, a lawyer for Farrar, Straus who had been prepared to defend the book as a "fair use" and artistic transformation of Nabokov's work, called Mr. Straus's action "a literary decision."
From the Greek legend of "Pygmalion," which became a George Bernard Shaw play and then "My Fair Lady," literary characters and entire works have long been fodder for other writers but usually the works are out of copyright. "Lolita," published in the United States by Random House, is under copyright until the year 2030.
Ms. Pera, 42, reached at home in the Tuscan countryside near Lucca, said she had heard about the cancellation only hours before in a call from one of her editors. "I was disappointed," she said. "I thought they were going to fight for it. This way we will never know if we could have won."
"I feel what is at stake here are two fundamental rights clashing: property rights and the right of free expression," she said. "My book is on some kind of frontier between the two."
She said that if it were possible to secure publication by giving up any economic gain from her book, she would agree. She also said she did not intend to sue Farrar, Straus to enforce publication. The book, first published in Italy in 1995, later came out in Brazil, Spain, the Netherlands, Germany, Finland and Greece. It was also bought by a French publisher who later dropped it and turned out to be a cousin of Dmitri Nabokov, Ms. Pera said.
Mr. Skolnik said although the Nabokov estate did not sue those publishers at the time, legal action was still under consideration.
Mr. Straus's decision to cancel publication was strongly opposed by Mr. Galassi, editor in chief and executive vice president at Farrar, Straus, and by Ethan Nosowsky, the editor who worked with Mr. Galassi to prepare the manuscript for publication.
Mr. Straus said they had argued strenuously for publication but not acrimoniously. "It was an intellectual debate, not who shot John," he said.
He also said the case raised important questions that would remain unresolved, at least until another publisher came along to take up the book. "From a lawyer's point of view," Mr. Straus said, "it would have been a delicious case."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pia Pera, in "Lo's Diary," lets Lolita tell her side of the story. (Grazia Ippolito)(pg. B14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LO'S DIARY (BOOK); LOLITA (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COPYRIGHTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION PUBLISHING (93%); LITIGATION (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STEPPARENTS (54%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; NABOKOV, VLADIMIR; PERA, PIA VLADIMIR NABOKOV (72%); ROGER WILLIAMS 'ROGER W' STRAUS JR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



181 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: Election Brings Hope

 BODY:

To the Editor:
People in the third world will celebrate the victory of Democrats in the midterm elections (editorial, Nov. 5). 
 With the global market in a recession, a strong United States President brings hope. The world needs a President like Franklin D. Roosevelt, who could start a New Deal-like program to rejuvenate the American and the world economies.
Moreover, the disputes that have outlived the cold-war era necessitate effective action from the United States.
With a President like Bill Clinton and a balanced Congress, there is a hope for the world.
 
SAQLAIN IMAM
Lahore, Pakistan, Nov. 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: LAHORE, PAKISTAN (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); LAHORE, PAKISTAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: IMAM, SAQLAIN BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



182 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Closing Sweatshops

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The proposed agreement by human rights organizations and apparel manufacturers requires employers to pay the local minimum-wage rate or prevailing industry wage, whichever is higher, to workers (news article, Nov. 5). Labor unions have rightfully protested that such wage rates, determined by the brutal economic realities of supply and demand in poor countries, are not living wages. 
 Even minimum-wage rates in the United States are shamefully inadequate. The vibrant economy and the bull market have only widened the disparities in income between those at opposite ends of the pay scale. The success of big corporations has not been shared with their minimum-wage employees, without whose labor these companies could not survive.
 
MADALYN MARGOLES
New York, Nov. 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; SWEATSHOPS; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE WAGES & SALARIES (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LIVING WAGE (88%); APPAREL MFG (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); 

PERSON: MARGOLIES, MADALYN MADALYN MARGOLES NEW YORK (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



183 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: A Financing Plan By Apple for New PC

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: CUPERTINO, Calif., Nov. 6

 BODY:
In a bid to pump up demand for its iMac personal computer, Apple Computer Inc. said this week that it would offer consumers a $29.99-a- month financing program to buy the iMac.
"For the price of three pizzas a month, you can own an iMac," Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder and acting chief executive, said in a statement. 
 The iMac, which first became available in August, is the fastest-selling new product in Apple's history. It retails for around $1,300.
Apple said the financing program would require 67 monthly payments, which would total just under $1,992 when paid in full. The new plan, to be offered through participating Apple retailers and resellers, requires no money down for 120 days and charges an annual interest rate of 14.9 percent.
Apple's program will also allow customers to finance add-on products including printers, storage devices, scanners and software for the first 90 days after the purchase.
Analysts believe the initial success of the iMac has been at least partly fueled by huge pent-up demand among existing Apple Macintosh loyalists.
The financing program seems intended to expand the iMac's appeal to a wider audience, especially first-time computer buyers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC APPLE INC (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CREDIT; SALES; PERSONAL COMPUTERS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (56%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



184 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Lift Some Sanctions Against India and Pakistan

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
President Clinton will use his new authority granted by Congress to waive some sanctions on India and Pakistan because of their promises to stop nuclear testing, a senior American official said today.
The sanctions lifted are largely symbolic, but they are intended to encourage India and Pakistan to take further steps to end what is considered to be the world's most dangerous nuclear-arms race. 
 But with Pakistan teetering on economic default, the Administration will support an agreement, if one can be reached, between Islamabad and the International Monetary Fund, the official said, even though international lending comes under sanctions that are not being lifted.
This would be a single exception, the official emphasized, and would depend on Pakistan's adopting a "credible reform program" acceptable to the Fund.
Despite pressure from Washington and the other nuclear states that make up the United Nations Security Council, neither India nor Pakistan has promised to forgo deployment of nuclear weapons or to join a moratorium on the future production of fissile material for warheads. India is leaning toward the latter, because it already has a large stockpile of fissile material. But both countries have agreed to join negotiations on a fissile material cutoff in January.
After India began a round of nuclear tests on May 11, and Pakistan responded, Washington imposed sanctions under a law sponsored by Senator John Glenn of Ohio. But the Administration argued that the sanctions law gave it no flexibility to encourage better behavior by India or Pakistan, and Congress agreed. In an omnibus bill passed about two weeks ago, Mr. Clinton was given authority to waive some of the sanctions selectively, which he has decided to do, the official said.
In six rounds of discussions with the Indians and Pakistanis, "we've said that positive actions on their part in response to our nonproliferation concerns will be welcomed with positive responses on our part, and that's what we're trying to do," the official said.
At the United Nations in September, the leaders of both countries announced that they would put a moratorium on further nuclear tests and would comply with the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty by September 1999. They also agreed to work with the Americans to tighten their export controls on nuclear materials and products.
And they have also begun a dialogue, pressed by Washington, on nuclear issues and on Kashmir, the disputed territory that could be a flash point for war.
In response, Mr. Clinton will again allow India and Pakistan to take part in American investment and trade promotion programs.
Bans on sales of military equipment and hardware will remain, but Washington will resume military-to-military training programs, in part to keep its relations with the influential Pakistani military, which also runs the nuclear weapons program, as close as possible.
And India will continue to be denied access to American high-technology exports and so-called dual-use equipment that could also be used for nuclear or military purposes.
"No one wants to see Pakistan go under," the official said. "We're trying to respond to sensible steps with some of our own."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); 

CITY: ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; PAKISTAN; INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); ASIA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NUCLEAR TESTS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (96%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (78%); ARMS RACE (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); MILITARY TRAINING (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); FOREIGN LENDING (55%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



185 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: When the Mind Is the Matter;
Mental Disability Cases Pose Painful Workplace Issues

BYLINE: By GEANNE ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
John Olson, an engineer at the General Electric Company, was hospitalized for depression for four months in 1991. Soon after he returned to his job at the company's astrospace unit, he was laid off in a widespread downsizing.
When a similar position at GE Astrospace, which ultimately became part of the Lockheed Martin Corporation, opened up a year later, Mr. Olson, still unemployed, applied. Although he was told, he said, that he would be recommended for the job, he did not get it. 
 Now, six years, three Federal court opinions and thousands of lawyers' hours later, Mr. Olson is finally set to go to trial. An appeals court ruled that he had a claim he was entitled to pursue -- not because he was mentally disabled under Federal law but because the company may have discriminated by treating him as if he were.
"It's a very stigmatizing thing," Mr. Olson said. "You don't want to let your co-workers know" about mental problems.
With his case scheduled for a jury trial in Federal District Court in Camden, N.J., in January, he said, he wants to make it easier "for other people who have been discriminated against for suffering from depression."
Mr. Olson's case shows just what a legal quagmire is taking shape. Until now, some plaintiffs like him have been caught in a no-win situation: they must show that they are qualified for the job in question, but when they do, courts often rule that they are not disabled.
"It's a horrific Catch-22," said Chai Feldblum, a law professor at Georgetown University Law Center who was instrumental in drafting the Americans With Disabilities Act.
But guidelines issued last year by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and a recent Supreme Court opinion could help employees escape that double bind and win more cases.
And there is an explosion of litigation. "It's one of the fastest-growing areas of employment law," said James J. McDonald Jr. of Fisher & Phillips in Newport Beach, Calif., who represents management in employment matters.
In 1992, the E.E.O.C. recorded 91 complaints of discrimination on the basis of emotional or psychiatric impairment, or 9.1 percent of all disability claims. By 1997, with the number of mental disability claims skyrocketing, that had jumped to 2,789, or 15.3 percent, making this, for the first time ever, the largest single category of claims. Complaints outnumbered those related to H.I.V., cancer, substance abuse, vision, hearing and diabetes-related disabilities combined. And preliminary numbers for the 1998 fiscal year show yet another increase.
Until now, said Susan Stefan, a professor at the University of Miami School of Law, many competent employees with mental illnesses like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression had lost their cases because courts had found they were not disabled.
And Mr. Olson's lawyer, Stephen E. Klausner of Klausner, Hunter & Rosenberg in Somerville, N.J., noted: "If the patient is taking medication, you've got to make sure the dosage doesn't so adversely affect him or her that she can't do the work."
From 1992 through 1997, companies won 92 percent of all final court decisions under the Americans With Disabilities Act, said John Parry, director of the American Bar Association's Commission on Mental and Physical Disability Law. For mental disability cases, companies won even more often.
But in its new guidelines, the E.E.O.C. basically said that a mental problem could be labeled a disability even if it did not hurt a person's job performance. And the Supreme Court decision, which concerned H.I.V. discrimination, may increase employees' chances by leading courts to broaden their views of disabilities.
The new guidelines have also called attention to employees' rights and helped educate managers, said Peggy Mastroianni, associate legal counsel at the E.E.O.C. "Human resources departments now understand," she said, "that you can have a very productive worker who has a psychiatric illness -- that both things can be true."
But managing workers who appear to have mental problems is tricky business. When an employee engages in some bizarre behavior, "it can be a mine field" for employers, said Harriet E. Cooperman, head of the labor and employment law group at Weinberg & Green in Baltimore.
If a company takes any action, "it's subjecting itself to liability because the employee can turn around and claim that the employer perceives the employee as having a disability and is discriminating against the employee on that basis," Ms. Cooperman said. "Recognizing a problem and referring the employee to counseling or treatment or suggesting that they get help is the humanitarian thing to do," she said, but it can also expose the company to a lawsuit.
Thus, employee assistance programs are much more risky, said Mr. McDonald, the California lawyer. "It used to be that employers could set up programs to help employees deal with mental and emotional programs," he said. "But now we see in an increasing number of cases that E.A.P.'s are just another source of liability." His advice to employers: "Focus on the conduct, not on the condition. Don't try to play armchair psychiatrist."
And despite the success most companies have had in court, fending off discrimination claims based on mental disability is not easy. "Unlike a physical condition that is readily, medically diagnosable, a mental condition is often very amorphous," said Robert Bernstein, managing partner of the Newark office of Epstein, Becker & Green and a lawyer for GE Astrospace. A mental condition, he said, "is based on essentially the unverifiable statements of the person who suffers from the condition, so it becomes very difficult to rebut." He declined to comment on the merits of the Olson case.
Navigating a case through the system is costly. "These cases can cost more to fully litigate than the damages," Ms. Cooperman said, "with attorneys' fees sometimes in the hundreds of thousands of dollars." Plaintiffs can find lawyers to take cases on a contingency basis, as Mr. Olson did, and thus avoid big legal bills.
The GE Astrospace case is a vivid example of just how tortured litigating these cases can be. Mr. Olson filed a complaint with the E.E.O.C. after learning he had lost out on the job, but the agency found no reasonable basis for his claim.
Mr. Olson then filed a case in Federal court, citing what he said were violations of Federal and New Jersey workplace discrimination law. Again, he hit a roadblock. The court dismissed the case, finding that Mr. Olson was not disabled. But again, Mr. Olson did not walk away. Instead, he appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and finally won the decision allowing his case to go forward.
The court also said that because New Jersey's law had a different definition of disability than did the Federal law, Mr. Olson had a potential state claim for discrimination on the basis of having a mental disability as well as for being regarded as mentally disabled.
Another concern for employers: under disability law, employers are required to provide reasonable accommodations to disabled employees. For a physical disability, the form this takes is often clear -- it might be a ramp for a person in a wheelchair. But with mental disabilities, accommodation is more complex. Requests for, say, an isolated cubicle or time off to calm down can be misunderstood by managers and resented by co-workers.
Accommodating employees is not necessarily a one-shot deal but can be a continuing obligation, as I.B.M. learned the hard way. Elizabeth Criado, who moved from New York State to take a position with the International Business Machines Corporation in San Juan, P.R., had been an award-winning marketing representative.
But after more than six years she was finding the pressure, including having a new manager, overwhelming. In mid-1994, at her new supervisor's suggestion and on the advice of her doctor, Ms. Criado, then 43, took a leave of absence for anxiety and depression. I.B.M. expected her to return on Aug. 1, but her doctor, she said, faxed the company a letter saying she needed more time.
In mid-August, I.B.M., which said it had never received the fax, sent its own letter -- dismissing her. Ms. Criado called and wrote the company to try to straighten out what she thought was a misunderstanding. But, she said, there was no reply.
"I had put so much of myself in my job," she said. "I had awards all over the place. I went from being Cinderella to the wicked witch overnight." Finally she sued, claiming discrimination on the basis of a mental disability.
I.B.M. lost. In June, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit upheld a jury verdict of more than $500,000, finding that I.B.M.'s grant of a single, finite leave did not fulfill its obligation to accommodate. For Ms. Criado, who has not had a full-time job since, it was a bittersweet victory. "Between what I ended up paying in taxes and lawyers, I could have made more money working," she said. I.B.M. disagrees with the decision, saying it had done all it could to balance the needs of the employee with the business.
Jeffrey G. Huvelle, a partner at Covington & Burling in Washington, who handled I.B.M.'s appeal, said: "If an employee comes with a request, companies now have to be very careful in assessing the information the employee provides. In some cases, that means the company has to consult its own physician or have the person examined by its own physician to see if there is a way of accommodating the workplace demands. The disability law imposes a particular challenge to small companies that don't have in-house medical advice."
Employers may have to adjust their work standards case by case. "They are used to enforcing standards of attendance and conduct on a consistent basis, treating everyone alike," he said. "In part they do this to insure they're not treating people differently based on race, sex or age. But sometimes when an employee has a mental disability, the law now imposes an obligation to take that into account."
But under the law, an employee's needs cannot undercut the essence of the job itself. Thus, a waitress in Alabama who could not handle the stress of working busy nights and learning menu changes was found unqualified for the job and lost her case.
Still, managers should not brush off employee complaints of mental problems, said Christopher Collins, a lawyer at Proskauer Rose in New York. "It's vitally important that employers can point to a record at the end of the day that they took a request for accommodation seriously."
For those cases that do make it to a jury trial, depending on state law, there may be no cap on liability. With no limit to punitive damages in New Jersey, Mr. Klausner said, there's no telling what Mr. Olson could win.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Mounting Distress" plots percentages of the top 5 types of discrimination charges filed, from 1992 through 1997. (Source: Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)
 
Drawing (Harry Pincus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (92%); GEC (LSE) (92%); GE (SWX) (92%); GE (NYSE) (92%); LMT (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; SUPREME COURT (US) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (92%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (72%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; SUPREME COURT (US) US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION EMPLOYMENT (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (87%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (75%); JURY TRIALS (75%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); APPEALS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CANCER (62%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, GEANNE JOHN OLSON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



186 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Autumn Rally Taking Stocks Back to Highs

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The stock market has spoken. Its tidings: Happy days are here again.
As of yesterday's close, most broad market measures were either close to their summer highs or at them. The Dow Jones industrial average closed the week at 8,975.46, up 59.99 points for the day and 4.46 percent for the week. That places the Dow only 3.8 percent below its July 17 peak and up 19 percent from its Aug. 31 low. For the year, the Dow is up a respectable 13.49 percent. 
 Big-capitalization stocks that make up the Dow average are not the only ones moving up. The Wilshire 5000 index, the best approximation for the entire United States stock market, has shown an even better performance. It has jumped 21 percent from its Oct. 8 low, and is up 12.4 percent for the year. Yesterday, the Wilshire had a value of $11.5 trillion. In about one month, the value of the index has risen more than $2 trillion.
As of yesterday, the market has gone eight sessions without a down day, its second example of such durability in less than one month. But extended moves like these are unusual: to find a third example of such staying power requires a trip back to 1997.
What's fueling this move? Traders and strategists point to several disparate factors.
Most significant, perhaps, is a sea change in monetary policy not just domestically but around the world. Central banks, beginning with the Federal Reserve back in September and extending to Britain, Latin America and parts of Asia, have been reducing interest rates fairly aggressively. According to Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, since the September rate cut by the Fed, 27 central banks have done the same.
"In the last month and a half, the global policy outlook has improved," Mr. Applegate said. "Then this week we had a slew of data that was stock-market friendly. I think the fear trade is out of the market."
Lower interest rates are almost always a tonic for stock prices largely because they mean reduced borrowing costs -- offering the potential for higher profit margins -- for corporations. So it is not surprising that a cut in the discount rate -- the Fed's rate on loans made to banks -- has historically been followed by an average 12-month increase of 18 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
Stocks have been getting an additional lift from a giant increase in the money supply. According to Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., the broadest measure of money supply, known as M-2, which includes currency in circulation, savings accounts and money market mutual funds, has grown by 2.5 percent in the last two months. The annualized rate for the last three months is 9.3 percent, the fastest annual expansion since 1987. "This tells me that there isn't a credit crunch," Mr. Shepherdson said. "And all this liquidity sloshing around has got to go somewhere."
An increase in the money supply comes basically from the Fed's providing reserves to the banking system, which banks use to lend. "New lending and investing power is created as money turnover speeds," said Robert H. Parks, an economist and investment consultant in Scarborough, N.Y. "It brings increased spending power that can go into stocks."
Another supply of money coming into stocks is from investors selling Treasury holdings in recent days. When Russia effectively defaulted in August, Treasuries became the darling of investors.
No more. The price of the 30-year bond has tumbled this week. Its yield, which rises as the price falls, ended at 5.38 percent, up from 5.15 percent a week earlier.
An interesting, if somewhat obscure, reason for the advance in equities may be the decline in stock volatility recently. Volatility -- basically the range from high to low in stocks during the trading day -- peaked on Oct. 15. Mr. Applegate notes that since 1948, the S.& P. 500 has risen an average 12 percent in the 12-month period after a peak in volatility.
"As long as the policy outlook continues to look good, then risk aversion should come down, volatility should come down and returns should come up," he said.
The jubliant stock market is, however, choosing to shrug off some troubling indicators. Corporate earnings, for example. While all the third-quarter announcements are not quite in, the period was a disappointment.
Even though many analysts have focused on the positive announcements, those were a distinct minority. John L. Manley Jr., equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, said that of 428 companies that have reported third-quarter results, fewer than 36 percent recorded a positive surprise. He defines a positive surprise as a company that reports a result greater than the consensus estimate on Wall Street one month before the quarter ended.
Neither do stocks seem to care that it is becoming increasingly likely that the Fed's policy-making committee will not cut rates when it meets on Nov. 17. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, said on Thursday that investors and lenders appeared to be less fearful than they had been. If the deep freeze in the credit markets is indeed beginning to thaw, as Mr. Greenspan seems to believe, another quick rate cut becomes less likely.
Some investors are calling this the John Glenn rally. After all, since Mr. Glenn blasted off from Cape Canaveral, the market has rallied nearly 10 percent. As long as he has been in orbit, so has the stock market.
Mr. Glenn returns to earth today. Investors clearly hope the stock market does not follow suit.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Oct. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)
 
Graph: "Impressive Dow" plots daily closes of the Dow Industrial average, since Sept. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN JEFFREY APPLEGATE (69%); IAN SHEPHERDSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



187 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Speaker's Parting Gift

BYLINE: By Matt Salmon; Matt Salmon, a Republican, is a United States Representative from Arizona.

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz.

 BODY:
Two numbers symbolize why we need a new Speaker of the House in 1999: 8 dollars and 20 billion dollars. The first is the per-person annual tax cut passed this year; the second is the amount of money raided from the budget surplus to pay for so-called emergency spending.
For these reasons, Newt Gingrich was right to step aside and allow new leadership in the House for the 106th Congress. 
 This year we became the Seinfeld Congress, a Congress about nothing. We failed to put forth a clear agenda for America, instead opting to run out the clock. It seems that we were convinced that history guaranteed additions to our majority; the party out of the White House almost always makes large Congressional gains in a midterm election.
So we spent a good portion of the year naming roads, bridges and post offices. While President Clinton was building a bridge to the 21st century, the Republican Congress was busy naming it. And we spent more time trying to make Puerto Rico a state than we did discussing tax relief, fighting crime or reducing the size of the Government. When we ousted the the Democrats from power in 1994, it wasn't because they had failed to produce a 51st state.
Moreover, Republicans have lost their ability to negotiate with the President. Granted, Bill Clinton is a very skillful politician. But for the past three years, we have repeatedly been out-negotiated by the President, and the situation has been getting progressively worse, culminating in this year's omnibus spending package -- a legislative monstrosity if there ever was one. This final act of the 105th Congress utterly demoralized the voters who are our political base, and they decided to sit out on Election Day. After all, they sent us to Washington to reduce the size of the Government, not to increase it.
With yesterday's announcements that Bob Livingston of Louisiana, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, will run for Speaker and that Steve Largent of Oklahoma will run to replace Dick Armey of Texas as majority leader, we see the bright promise of a rejuvenated Republican majority. With the Speaker's decision to step aside, others may now join them in these races. This is a sign of health in the party.
How can our new leadership shake the moniker of the do-nothing Congress? We must emphasize the issues that unite us: creating economic growth through tax relief, reducing the size and intrusiveness of the Government, and insuring the long-term solvency of Social Security. Members may still butt heads on social issues, but these differences could be managed if the party refused to buckle on the issues on which we agree.
The alternative is a continuation of the downward spiral of House Republicans into the next elections. That would not affect me directly. I pledged to Arizona voters that I would not seek a fourth consecutive term, so I will not be a candidate in 2000. But returning the House to the Democrats in two years would mean even higher taxes and an even bigger Government.
It is never easy to replace a leader who has brought you success in the past. Newt Gingrich spearheaded our Super Bowl victory in 1994; unfortunately, we haven't won enough games since then. I respect and admire Mr. Gingrich. His statesmanlike decision to pass the Republican leadership to a new generation is a wise and welcome one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) SEINFELD CONGRESS (90%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) SEINFELD CONGRESS (90%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (66%); 

PERSON: SALMON, MATT (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



188 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: CRITICIZED ON ECONOMIC RETREAT -- Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott attacked Russia's retreat from free-market economics and warned that financial decline could lead to "political drift, turmoil and even crack up" there. Help from the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Talbott said in a speech at Stanford University, "must wait until the Russian Government shows itself willing and able to make the difficult structural adjustments necessary for recovery and growth."' (Reuters) 

RUSSIA: THE TRUTH IS NOW THE WORD -- Pravda, once the official organ of the Soviet Communist Party, was forced by court order to change its name. The newspaper, whose name means "the truth," has now appeared on newsstands as Slovo, the word. The change resulted from a battle between editorial factions, one of which began publishing a new version of the paper in 1994 with the same name, in virtually the same typeface. (The old Pravda is shown at top above, with its competitor.) (Agence France-Presse)
 
GERMANY: U.S. LAWYER PRESSES SLAVE-LABOR CASE -- An American lawyer who has sued companies over slave labor in World War II demanded that the new Government include his group in talks about a compensation fund. The lawyer, Edward Fagan, said he would never agree to a Government-run fund. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)
 
YUGOSLAVIA: INSPECTORS' VISAS SOUGHT -- Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States special envoy, said in Berlin that President Slobodan Milosevic clearly agreed last month to allow United Nations war-crimes investigators access to Yugoslavia, including Kosovo. But Belgrade has refused to give the visas. (Reuters)
 
SPAIN: PINOCHET EXTRADITION REQUESTED -- The Government agreed to seek the extradition from Britain of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, a move that could send the general, the ex-dictator of Chile, to trial on a charge of genocide. The Chilean Government immediately recalled its ambassador, and the Spanish Foreign Minister, Abel Matutes, conceded that the case "inevitably has important political repercussions." (NYT)
 
TURKEY: NEW RULES ON THE BOSPORUS -- Turkey imposed new navigation rules for the Bosporus, moving to eliminate competitors in the race to carry Caspian Sea oil to world markets. Turkey, which says increased traffic would lead to collisions and oil spills, is seeking a pipeline to skirt the Bosporus. Turkey can stop traffic when currents are unfavorable, stop any ship on legal grounds and require increased use of local pilots. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: SUPPORT FROM THE I.M.F. -- The lending agency approved a $960 million loan to the Government and urged it to speed the pace of banking reform and of refinancing corporate debt. But it also praised the direction of the economy. Michel Camdessus, the I.M.F.'s managing director, said, "Due to good policy implementation, the Indonesian economy is showing welcome signs of stabilization." (Reuters)
 
JAPAN: 4 SPY SATELLITES BY 2003 -- The Government announced it would launch four intelligence-gathering satellites, increasing its military abilities in ways that are widely expected to cause unease at home and regionally. The Cabinet approved the launchings by the spring of 2003. Japan became alarmed when North Korea launched a rocket over its territory in September. Nicholas D. Kristof (NYT)
 
CHINA: CONTROLS ON MIXED MARRIAGES -- Shanghai has moved to control the increasing number of marriages between residents and foreigners, BBC World News reported. Starting next month, the BBC said, Chinese in Shanghai who want to marry a foreigner have to register with city authorities, who will rule in a month on allowing or prohibiting marriages. Shanghai had 3,000 mixed marriages last year.
 
TAJIKISTAN: RESISTANCE TO WARLORD'S THREATS -- Tajik and former opposition groups joined forces to combat a warlord, Makhmud Khudoberdyev, who threatens to blow up a dam and flood large areas. Government troops and their allies retook control of Khudzhand, but still faced pockets of resistance. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
LEBANON: ISRAEL CURBS TOPSOIL THIEVES -- The Israeli Army has taken measures to stop its citizens from stealing topsoil in southern Lebanon and taking it back, a United Nations spokesman said. The army confirmed that Israelis were removing soil from an Israeli-occupied zone, said the spokesman for the United Nations peacekeepers in Lebanon, Timur Goksel. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
UNITED NATIONS: U.S. IS SPURNED AGAIN -- The United States was again denied a seat on a financial watchdog committee because it owes the United Nations more than $1 billion, despite having paid $197 million this week to avoid forfeiting its vote in the General Assembly. The United States, which was voted off the panel, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, in 1996, finished last in a field of four candidates. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
COLOMBIA: REBELS GIVEN A WIDE AREA -- Rebel commanders began taking control of 15,000 square miles in the southeast that the Government ceded in an effort to clear the way for the first peace talks in six years. President Andres Pastrana ordered 2,000 members of his security forces to pull out of five municipalities that straddle Caqueta and Meta Provinces for at least three months. (Reuters)
 
ARGENTINA: AFRICA WARNED ON WARMING -- Africa is more likely to suffer from global warming than other regions largely because of its limited ability to react to climate change, a United Nations committee predicted at a conference. The rest of the world will not be spared, either, the panel said, with the North and South Poles, as well as the Pacific and Caribbean, also badly affected. (Agence France-Presse)
 Compiled by Christopher S. Wren

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAWYERS (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); SLAVERY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ADMIRALTY LAW (74%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); NEWSSTANDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WAR CRIMES (66%); GENOCIDE (64%); OIL SPILLS (64%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



189 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

No. 1 Bookstore Chain To Buy Top Wholesaler
Barnes & Noble, the nation's largest bookseller, announced the $600 million purchase of Ingram Book Group, a leading wholesaler, in a deal that an organization of independent booksellers denounced as "devastating" and an authors group compared to a wedding of Godzilla and King Kong. 
 The deal, for $200 million in cash plus $400 million in stock, will give Barnes & Noble access to 11 distribution centers. Page A1.
 
Credit Growth Accelerates
Consumers picked up the pace of their borrowing in September. The Federal Reserve said outstanding credit grew at a 7.9 percent annual rate during the month, up from August's 4.2 percent rate and faster than the 5.2 percent average for the year so far. C3.
 
Market's Strength Is Widespread
The sharp run-up in the stock market over the last month, which has returned the Dow Jones industrial average to within striking distance of the 9,000 level, has given almost every major stock group big gains. The major exception is the utility sector. C3.
 
Accord on U.S. Food Aid for Russia
In a sign of Russia's economic desperation, Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov's aides put aside their pride and concluded an agreement with the United States for $625 million worth of grain, meat and other food assistance. Agriculture Department officials say the Russians will run out of wheat before their next harvest without aid. A4.
 
Rule Near on Child Safety Seats
After years of negotiations with manufacturers of cars and child safety seats, the Transportation Department plans to publish a rule next month that would establish a uniform system for installing child safety seats in new cars without using seat belts. A11.
 
U.S. Bankers Hesitate on Brazil
As institutions led by the International Monetary Fund prepare a $30 billion economic rescue package for Brazil, United States banks find themselves sitting on the sidelines. With questions lingering about the ability of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso to reinvigorate the Brazilian economy, American bankers say they will wait for Brazil to ask them for more money before any is offered. C2.
 
Sweepstakes Operator Is Accused
The Florida Attorney General accused American Family Publishers of preying on the elderly through deceptive magazine solicitations and by selling the names of the elderly and retired people who enter sweepstakes to operators of other contests. A7.
 
American Scales Back Growth Plans
American Airlines plans to slow its growth in 1999 by retiring 10 aircraft early and by deferring service on some new international routes, including to Moscow and Tokyo. C3.
 
Results Delayed at Lucas Varity
Lucas Varity delayed until today an announcement of whether shareholders voted to move its headquarters to the United States from Britain. The vote was too close to call as proxies were counted. C2.
 
Tough Choice for Astra Creditors
Astra International, Indonesia's largest auto maker, has offered its creditors the choice of cashing out and taking sizable losses or joining its debt-revamping plan. C2.
 
ABC Drops Stone-Produced Special
Citing the potential for confusion among viewers between "fact-based entertainment and hard news," ABC has dropped plans to broadcast a special, produced by the film maker Oliver Stone, about the theory that long-range missiles caused the crash of Trans World Airlines Flight 800. A12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,975.46 up 59.99
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.38% up 0.04
The Dollar -- 119.10 yen up 1.43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

COMPANY: INGRAM BOOK GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); AMERICAN FAMILY PUBLISHERS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); INDONESIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOOKSTORES (94%); WHOLESALERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); SWEEPSTAKES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FAMILY (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); AGRICULTURE (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); CHILDREN (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); CHILD CAR SEATS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); AIRLINES (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



190 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Talks Hit Stalemate And Break Off for Now

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
The chances of ending the National Basketball Association's labor conflict grew more bleak yesterday. Talks between the chief negotiators broke off indefinitely, another week of games was stricken from the schedule and the union's executive director, Billy Hunter, again accused the league of trying to shatter the players' solidarity.
Hunter and the union's negotiating team emerged from a one-hour meeting in Manhattan with Commissioner David Stern and his team, and they gave no indication when negotiations might resume. It was the first time that talks were suspended since Aug. 6, when the owners walked out of a meeting. 
 With both sides holding firm and no bargaining sessions planned, it appeared the lockout would push up against Stern's unofficial early-December deadline for reaching a deal.
In response to a question, Hunter said pressure on both sides was growing. "We're not going to take a bad deal," he said. "If it means we don't play until January or February, that's what it means."
Stern's deputy, Russ Granik, said: "Unfortunately, nothing has changed this week. We are still very, very far apart. We haven't moved closer at all."
Granik added: "As each day goes by, there are just huge dollars that are lost. It's hard for me to say there is a particular date as to when the window closes to make a deal, but I'm hoping we don't get to that point."
With Granik out of town to attend U.S.A. Basketball meetings early next week, negotiations between the league and the union could not take resume until late next week. That would most likely mean another week of games would be canceled, which would reduce the season to around 60 games.
Meanwhile, a participant in Wednesday's negotiating session said the union had offered mediation to help resolve the dispute, a tool Major League Baseball players and owners employed unsuccessfully in 1994. The league rejected the use of a mediator, the participant said.
League officials said they never received a new proposal that the players had promised. Hunter, who acknowledged that the union decided not to send a new proposal, accused Stern and the owners of using the next two weeks to lobby the players and exert pressure on the union to sign a deal.
"It's clear they're trying to split the players," Hunter said, adding that he knew of seven teams that had made contact with players to discuss the league's latest proposal. "They want to take a poll and see where our players stand."
On Wednesday, Stern lifted a four-month-old moratorium that prohibited team officials with knowledge of the negotiations from explaining the deal to players. The action does not constitute an unfair labor practice, the league contends, because it says it is for informational purposes only.
The move angered Hunter, and he has scheduled a meeting next week of the union's executive committee.
"We're not going to stand by and let the owners and league attempt to have unfettered access to our players and let them manipulate them without going back out there and clearing the record up," Hunter said.
Negotiations over the key economic issues continue to lag. Among them are the distribution of total revenue and the implementation of an escrow system. A week after both sides boasted that a framework had been agreed upon, talks have become so unproductive that a fifth week has been deleted from the season. That means games could not start earlier than Dec. 8.
Hunter said the following team officials were among those who had talked to players about the deal:
*Miami Heat: Micky Arison, owner, and Pat Riley, president and coach.
*Boston Celtics: Paul Gaston, owner, Rick Pitino, president and coach, and Chris Wallace, general manager.
*Milwaukee Bucks: George Karl, coach.
*Cleveland Cavaliers: Wayne Embry, general manager.
"From what we've heard, they're talking to the players about how good the deal is," Hunter said. "Our players know the difference between a good deal and a bad deal. We're confident about that. I'm just worried this will create a rift between management and players."
Asked why the union decided not to make changes in its most recent proposal, Hunter said, "Our position is, we're not going to show movement until they show movement."
Granik said: "The owners believe totally that they will not operate until we have a fair deal. And if that means missing the whole season, that's what it means. Obviously, it's not anything anybody wants to do."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (93%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BASEBALL (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; HUNTER, BILLY MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



191 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: California Examines Brutal, Deadly Prisons

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: CORCORAN, Calif.

 BODY:
There was lots of celebrating in this cotton-growing town in the San Joaquin Valley when a maximum-security prison opened here 10 years ago.
It would bring jobs and economic growth to the stagnant farm belt, not to mention put more criminals away. But while the jobs came, the prison has, more than anything, brought Corcoran a bad name. 
 Months after it opened as part of a prison construction boom in California that coincided with a push for tough new sentencing laws, the State Prison at Corcoran began to develop a reputation as one of the deadliest, most abusive prisons in the biggest, most troubled prison system in the United States.
Now, state lawmakers and prison officials are examining why Corcoran, and by extension, the entire state prison system, veered out of control. From 1988 to late 1994, when whistle-blowers inside Corcoran went to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the prison's guards shot to death 7 inmates and wounded 43, more than in all other prisons in the country combined.
And while the shootings at Corcoran stopped when the Federal authorities moved in, they continued at other California prisons. At High Desert Prison, guards have killed 3 inmates and wounded 11 since that maximum-security institution opened three years ago.
"California correctional officers, on at least a few occasions, have shot and killed an inmate who was locked in a cell, in a fistfight with an inmate, with no weapons in sight," said State Senator John Vasconcellos, a Democrat from San Jose. "No other state has done that."
At the end of a series of recent legislative hearings on abuses at Corcoran, Mr. Vasconcellos called for a meeting of prison leaders from other states to review California's prison system, particularly its violent form of inmate control. But some wonder what took so long.
In October, five prison guards at Corcoran were indicted on state charges of conspiracy, accused of having an inmate rape another inmate in 1993.
In February, as part of a four-year Federal investigation into abuses at the prison, eight guards were indicted on civil rights charges, accused of staging gladiator-style fights among prisoners in exercise yards and shooting at the inmates when they did not stop fighting on command.
In 1995, a Federal judge ruled that treatment of prisoners at the maximum-security Pelican Bay Prison, at the northern tip of the state, was cruel and inhumane.
Also in 1995, 5 supervisors at Corcoran and 10 guards were accused by whistle-blowers of beating a busload of handcuffed, shackled prisoners who had been transferred to the prison. A local grand jury declined to indict the guards, but the Department of Corrections handed out punishments including dismissal and demotion. In September, a court overturned the disciplinary penalties on a technicality.
There is no one answer to why California became the model for how not to run prisons. But the troubles began when it embarked on the biggest, fastest prison construction boom in American history. When the building began in 1982, the state had 12 prisons and 31,000 inmates. Now, it has 33 prisons and 160,000 inmates.
The boom, prison officials say, was prompted by several tough-on-crime laws drafted by the Legislature, most famously the "three strikes" under Gov. Pete Wilson that mandated life terms for third felony convictions. As prisons were built, the Department of Corrections hired thousands of guards. Many had no law-enforcement experience beyond six weeks' training given by the state.
Like the system's critics, C. A. Terhune, who became director of the corrections department last year, said the system grew too large, too fast. But Mr. Terhune also blamed the state's entrenched prison gangs, which he called "second to none" in the country. Just as significant, he said, his department, with an annual budget of $4 billion, has the nation's largest prison population, but ranks near the bottom in the ratio of guards to inmates, 1 to 7.6.
"While California was building its prison system, there didn't seem to be a concurrent budgeting of resources," Mr. Terhune said. "It's only begun in this last year or so to really commence the process of staffing up."
The prisons' security housing units, or super-maximum prisons within the prisons, where most of the shootings have taken place, were built so that one or two guards with high-powered riles could watch over a yard with dozens of the most troublesome prisoners. Other states with super-maximum security units have nothing close to the same numbers of incidents of guards using lethal force. But in California, use of force was a major factor in the inmate control equation.
"The design, the staffing, and many of the factors that go into the program operations of the California prison system were based on having lethal force as a control mechanism," Mr. Terhune said. "It is a reality of life that we have to live with."
Mr. Terhune acknowledged that the department's policy on use of force had not been defined in writing and that it needed to be defined strictly and enforced the same way. Echoing the Correctional Peace Officers Union, the second-most-powerful union in the state after the teachers' union, he said the system's 27,000 prison guards needed reinforcements and more training.
"A lot of good things happened in these hearings," he said, "and I think one of the main ones is that a six-week academy is not sufficient."
Longtime critics of the California prison system remain skeptical of the department's willingness and ability to reform itself. Corey Weinstein, a doctor who directs the Corcoran Committee of California Prison Focus, a watchdog group based in San Francisco, said recent history suggested it would not happen.
'Only after abuses are exposed in the press do they act," Dr. Weinstein said. "Only when the public sector has forced them into acting have they acted."
Dr. Weinstein pointed to the catastrophe of the integrated prison yard policy, in which rival gang members imprisoned in security units were put in tiny, concrete recreation yards together to force them to get along.
In the mid 1980's, the policy backfired when guards began shooting and killing inmates to break up fights at the California Correctional Institute at Tehachapi. Still, officials continued the policy when Corcoran and Pelican Bay prisons were opened in 1988 and 1989, respectively.
Pelican Bay prison was built to house the "worst of the worst." It quickly became a place where prisoners claimed they were beaten, brutalized and tormented. In 1995, a Federal court agreed. In a class-action civil rights case, Judge Thelton Henderson of Federal District Court in San Francisco ruled that the prison caused "senseless suffering and sometimes wretched misery."
Like many critics of the system, Dr. Weinstein blames the prison guard union for some of the problems. The union, which has contributed more than $1 million to the campaigns of Governor Wilson and Attorney General Dan Lungren since 1992, has stymied investigations.
George Galaza, the warden at Corcoran, said the accusations of continued abuse and neglect at his prison were "lies."
"I wouldn't be sitting here if that was going on," said Mr. Galaza, who became warden of the 5,000-inmate prison in 1996. "With all the different agencies scrutinizing this place, if something was going on, I'd be behind bars if anything was going on."
Guards at Corcoran said they were tired of being made out to be the criminals, in a prison filled with some of the state's toughest inmates. Lieut. Rob Vella, who has been at Corcoran since it opened, said that even criticisms of the old integrated yard policy was simplistic.
"There are just so many facets to it," he said. "When we separate the gangs, the ones that used to get along start forming rivalries."
Lieut. Rob Dean, one of the group of guards accused of beating inmates getting off a bus in 1995, said the accusations were politically motivated. "If we were doing all the things they said, these guys wouldn't respect us," he said, as he watched a sagging, baggy line of prisoners file into the mess hall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A guard talked recently to an inmate at the State Prison at Corcoran, Calif., where guards shot to death seven inmates from 1988 to late 1994. Prisoners from the super-maximum-security unit at the 10-year-old State Prison at Corcoran, Calif., exercised recently in the yard, where they were watched by a guard with a high-powered rifle in the tower. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HIGH DESERT TOOL (55%); HIGH DESERT DIGITAL (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; CORCORAN (CALIF); UNITED STATES (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (93%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (75%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); JUDGES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (62%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



192 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Fans' Hoop Dreams Tainted by N.B.A. Rift

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

 BODY:
On a nippy November afternoon, when he would ordinarily be leaping toward the basketball rim trying to imitate the aerodynamic glide of his hero, Michael Jordan, 11-year-old Jonathan Figueroa grimaced at the mention of basketball.
Instead, Jonathan, who once aspired to be a point guard, was transforming the Goat Courts at 99th Street and Amsterdam Avenue -- one of New York City's most hallowed hoops grounds -- into an asphalt baseball field. And with repeated swings of his wooden bat, he tried to forget ever having loved Jordan or professional basketball, which he says is so "messed up" in a labor dispute that fans like him have been pushed to the sidelines. 
 "Basketball is dead," Jonathan declared, continuing to swipe the air with his bat. "The players only really care about getting a lot of money. I don't care if it ever comes back. It's all about baseball now."
By the calendar at least, basketball loyalists like Jonathan should be tethered to their televisions, trying to glimpse the latest moves, newest phenoms and hottest highlights of the National Basketball Association. But this season, a high-stakes labor battle between the N.B.A.'s more than 400 players and 29 team owners has already canceled 194 games in November and is threatening to call off the entire schedule.
The two sides are at odds over how best to divide basketball's billion dollar revenue base, and the owners have locked out the players. The players want 60 percent of that total; the owners are offering 50.
On the basketball courts and public playgrounds of New York City, which have launched legions of basketball dreamers -- and more than a few N.B.A. stars -- hard-core fans of all ages are directing sharp words at both the players and the owners. While almost no one is well versed or even particularly interested in the details of the day-to-day negotiations, many fans say they have heard enough to know this much: Basketball is disintegrating into a game of greed.
As in many urban areas across the country, basketball has long been more than just a sport in New York. It has also been a way for young people in poor neighborhoods to grasp at America's modern pastime: success, and the wealth that comes along with it. But as with other such pursuits, basketball has a heartbreaking trail of disappointments -- none better known in New York than that of Earl (the Goat) Manigault, for whom the Amsterdam courts are named. Manigault became a local legend for his ability to defy gravity on the court, but a heroin addiction spoiled his chances of pursuing a professional career.
So perhaps the N.B.A. impasse has a particularly sharp resonance on the city's concrete playgrounds, where those who sweat and dream of an N.B.A. career and its comforts feel betrayed by the few who have made it.
Players at the famed West Fourth Street court in Manhattan recently joked about the predicament of Kenny Anderson, a former point guard for the New Jersey Nets. Anderson said recently that he might have to sell one of his eight luxury cars now that he is unable to collect his $5.8 million salary from his new team, the Boston Celtics.
Anderson, who has homes in New York and Los Angeles and a fledgling entertainment company, has said that he spends $75,000 a year on the upkeep of his cars and is currently losing $76,000 for every game that he does not play.
"It's insulting," said Stephen Breslin, 15, a West Fourth Street regular. "They can go out and buy a whole bunch of cars and apartments and we're supposed to feel bad. Get real. Even the ones who make only a couple hundred thousand still have it better than most people out here. I don't have sympathy for either side."
Some basketball devotees have so distanced themselves from the N.B.A.'s troubles that they had to be reminded that the official start of the season came and went this week.
Last year, Eddo Smalls, 16, spent his time and money collecting memorabilia related to his favorite sports heroes at the time, the Orlando Magic guard Penny Hardaway and the Los Angeles Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal. But the two have now been dethroned by the likes of "Big Sexy Kevin Nash" and "Stone Cold Steve Austin," stars from the world of professional wrestling.
"Wrestling is the last pure sport," Eddo said. "They don't have big N.B.A egos. Everything they do is for the fans."
Officials at the N.B.A. say they are painfully aware of the damage the lockout has done to the public's perception of the game. "We know the lockout is not doing anything to endear us to fans," said Brian McIntyre, a spokesman for the league. "But we have an economic system that is not working and if left unaddressed would only get worse."
Mr. McIntyre said some teams lost so much money during last year's regular season because of player salaries and benefits that this year's lockout is actually saving money. Officials for the National Basketball Players Association did not return telephone calls to their office. But in the past the players have disputed the league's contention that many teams are losing money, saying that basketball's popularity is soaring and now is not the time for players to agree to a pay cut.
But like the reaction to the baseball strike of 1994-95 -- when fans vowed to turn their backs on the game but returned en masse by this year -- the complaints over the basketball dispute are likely to be fleeting.
Gregory Rose, a 27-year-old N.B.A. fan and a regular player on city courts, said he was mourning the loss of basketball. "I'm hurting," he said. "Right now, I'm supposed to be in front of my TV rooting for the Bulls."
And others, like Derek Pilgrim, 31, a friend of Mr. Rose's, said the team owners were at fault. "Blaming the players is crazy," he said. "Basketball is a business now. Players know their careers probably won't last 10, 20 years like they used to, so they have to look out for themselves just like the owners are doing."
At the Brownsville Recreation Center in Brooklyn, all the talk about salaries and sticking points was lost on the nearly three dozen children who gather each season in front of a 52-inch color television to watch N.B.A. games. So far this year, the children have had to settle for sitting in the gym and watching amateurs.
"I don't think it's fair," 12-year-old Rykeem Robinson said as he lay sprawled over the gym's bleachers, only half watching a loud, sweaty game of three-on-three. "On TV it's better than this. If the players weren't selfish, we could be watching a real game."
Since many of the children come from homes where cable television is an unlikely luxury, the recreation center's manager was planning to buy a cable television package this year so they could watch more of their favorite players, including Stephon Marbury, the Coney Island point guard who used to dunk in the center's full-court gym and now plays for the Minnesota Timberwolves.
The center, which is run by the city's Parks Department, also helped ignite the career of World B. Free, who played 13 N.B.A. seasons for various teams, including the Philadelphia 76ers, and was inducted into the New York City Basketball Hall of Fame last year.
To Greg Jackson, who manages the center and is also a former point guard for the Phoenix Suns, the dispute is sending a troubling message to children like Rykeem.
"Where is the loyalty to the game from the owners and the players these days?" asked Mr. Jackson, 47, who was drafted by the New York Knicks in 1974 and played for the Suns, earning $25,000 a year. "Every year these kids are loyal supporters, even though most of them can't afford to think about going to a game."
Once a year, Mr. Jackson said, the center finds the money, with help from the Parks Department and a local community organization, to sponsor a trip to a game. But rarely is he able to take more than 30 of the center's nearly 400 children. Even then, the children must settle for the New Jersey Nets, rather than their favorite team, the Knicks.
"Maybe they should stop being so loyal," he said. "Maybe the owners and the players would all learn a lesson then."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In DeWitt Clinton Park in Manhattan, Gregory Rose, second from left, and Derek Pilgrim, left, discuss the pain of life without N.B.A. games. Greg Jackson, a former professional player and the manager of a city recreation center, said the players and the team owners should have the same loyalty to the game as the young fans at the center. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN PLAYERS ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; LOCKOUTS BASKETBALL (96%); LOCKOUTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BASEBALL (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (74%); HEROIN (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



193 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
USX-U.S. STEEL OFFERSEARLY RETIREMENT TO 540

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
USX-U.S. Steel Group Inc. offered early retirement yesterday to 540 managers and nonunion employees, or 12 percent of its salaried work force. The company, the biggest United States steelmaker, said it would take a fourth-quarter charge of less than $10 million to account for the buyouts. U.S. Steel's sales and earnings have been weakened in the last year. The company, a unit of the USX Corporation, made the offer to selected managers at its steel plants and to USX Engineers and Consultants Inc. employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (96%); MRO (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: USX-US STEEL GROUP INC UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (96%); MARATHON OIL CORP (72%); USX ENGINEERS & CONSULTANTS INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: USX-US STEEL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; LABOR EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



194 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Food Crisis Forces Russia To Swallow Its Pride

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 6

 BODY:
The burning question for the Kremlin these days is not the future of capitalism, the lack of a national program or NATO's creeping to the East.
It is about food. 
 With winter fast approaching, this nation is locked in a primal struggle to feed its citizens and prevent them from freezing.
It is a race against time. Food reserves are dwindling. Remote cities have been left without heat. And the huge logistical task of moving grain, meat and fuel is well behind schedule.
It is a mark of Russia's anxiety that Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov's aides put aside its pride and concluded an agreement today to buy $625 million worth of grain, meat, milk, soybeans and other food from the United States.
According to Christopher Goldthwait, the senior official of the United States Department of Agriculture who helped negotiate the food accord, the Russians will run out of wheat before their next harvest without American aid.
"We project they will run short some time in the month of July," Mr. Goldthwait said in an interview.
Even now Russia is facing regional shortages. Russia's Agriculture Ministry has reported shortages in 22 of the nation's 89 regions.
Russia's disastrous harvest -- the worst in 45 years -- is just part of the reason. The tendency of the nation's regions to go their own way, lax government management and Russia's financial crisis have turned a difficult situation into a desperate one.
Many grain producing regions have been hoarding their supply. The collapse of the banking system and fuel shortages have also delayed the sale and distribution of what food is available to regions that do not produce grain.
"Distribution is a big problem," said Viktor F. Lishchenko, a leading agricultural specialist. "The nation is vast and many local governors practically do not let the grain out of their borders."
Quantity is not the only problem. The quality of Russia's store of grain is uneven, diminishing its value for making bread or raising livestock.
The decline in domestic food production has been aggravated by a sharp decline in imports, another consequence of the plummeting value of the nation's currency.
Before its financial crisis, Russia used to import more than 40 per cent of its food. But imports have fallen to a fraction of that and what foreign food is being shipped in is being sold at skyrocketing prices.
Russia's needy have been hit hard. Relief groups are besieged with reports of orphanages that have five rubles a day (about 30 cents) per child to buy food and prisons that spend even less on their inmates.
"We think the situation is critical," said Margarita Plonikova, Moscow representative of the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Even ordinary Russians have felt the pinch. Even before the financial crisis, the annual consumption of meat has declined to about 95 pounds a person, less than half of American levels. And since the crisis, Russia's pasta factories have been working overtime, a sign that Russians are changing their diet.
Food is not the only problem. The Russian Government is also struggling to keep its citizens supplied with heat and power. Russia's Fuel and Energy Ministry said this week that it had only received 3 per cent of what it was due to buy fuel for the nation's northern territories.
As the food crisis has grown, the Kremlin only begrudgingly recognized the seriousness of the situation. At first, it continued to allow farmers in the south of the country to export their grain.
Then aides to Mr. Primakov said that the nation did not need food aid, suggesting that talk about food assistance was a Western plot to dump agricultural surplus on Russia.
But as the Russians re-examined their stocks and confronted the difficulty of distributing food supplies, they began to document their shortages for their American counterparts. The Russians even urged that the first of the American shipments arrive before the end of the year.
Under today's accord, the United States will supply 3.1 million metric tons of food. That supply includes 1.5 million tons of wheat, which is being provided free.
Another 1.5 million tons of feed grain, meat, dry milk, soybeans, rice, corn and other commodities is being bought by Russia under extremely favorable terms: a 20-year loan at a nominal interest rate. The United States is also providing 100,000 tons of food to private relief groups for distribution to Russia's needy.
The Russians intend to sell much of the food at home at market rates. With corruption rampant in Russia, the United States wants to prevent Russian businessmen from raking off the profits.
It rejected the Russians' insistence that the revenue be used to support their agricultural sectors. Instead, the Russians are obliged to use the proceeds to pay pensions and finance other social programs.
The United States is footing the $260 million bill for sending the different shipments for Russia. Relief organizations, meanwhile, are mounting their own campaigns to buy and distribute food.
Still, American officials said that the food aid may not be sufficient and may need to be increased.
"This is a question that we have left open," Mr. Goldthwait said. "We will continue to assess whether there or not there is a need for additional commodities."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 10, 1998, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about United States food aid for Russia misstated the terms. Russia will get $625 million of food, much of it free. It is not buying food worth $625 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An elderly woman bought vegetables from a street vendor in Moscow yesterday. Russia and the United States signed an agreement for 3.1 million tons of food aid to help carry the country through the winter. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; HEAT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (83%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); GRAIN RESERVES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); BANK FAILURES (64%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1998



195 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 10; Column 4; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine 

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: A World of Celebration;
New York City: Kwanzaa

BYLINE: By Eric V. Copage; New York Times Magazine

 BODY:
Kwanzaa means "first fruits of the harvest" in Swahili. From Dec. 26 through New Year's Day, up to 18 million African-Americans will celebrate the richness of their African heritage by observing the holiday of Kwanzaa.
It is a reminder to live up to the high standards of the best of black culture -- tenacity, resourcefulness, joy and pride exhibited through action, not rhetoric -- throughout the year. My 11-year-old son, Evan, 8-year-old daughter, Siobhan, and I celebrate Kwanzaa in the typical way. On the first night we light the central candle of the kinara, the seven-branched candelabrum, and talk about the holiday's seven principles. First, Unity -- working together as a family, in the classroom, with other black people. On the second night, we light two candles and talk about Self-Determination, not letting others decide who or what you should be, and so on until the seventh day, when we light the candle of Faith. 
 I have a small Karamu, or feast, during which I might cook cornbread and greens the way my grandmother did, or peanut soup and Jolof rice, a reminder of my trip to Africa. I'll give my children simple gifts, usually books ("Her Stories," "The House of Dies Drear," by Virginia Hamilton), CD's of black jazz legends, or a family memento, such as a photograph of their great-grandmother.
More elaborate Karamus -- both public and private -- include dance and music, storytelling and foods from the African diaspora.
The holiday was created in 1966 by Dr. Maulana (Ron) Karenga, chairman of black studies at California State University in Long Beach. He blended philosophies and harvest festival rituals from sub-Saharan Africa to create Kwanzaa's seven symbols, such as the kinara, and its seven principles: Umoja (Unity), Kujichagulia (Self-Determination), Ujima (Collective Work and Responsibility), Ujamaa (Co-operative Economics), Nia (Purpose), Kuumba (Creativity), Imani (Faith).
There are many Kwanzaa celebrations in New York. On Dec. 27, under the blue whale in the hall of ocean life, the American Museum of Natural History will bring alive an African marketplace. Hours are noon to 5 P.M.; suggested donation, which buys admission to Kwanzaa events: $8 for adults, $4.50 for children (telephone: 212-769-5100).
From Dec. 11 to 14, a Kwanzaa Fest will be held in the concrete cavern of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. There will be food, dance, music and vendors, and African-American authors will sign their books. Admission: $10 for adults, $5 for children 6 to 12 (718-671-2811).

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CO-OPERATIVE BANK PLC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: KWANZAA (CELEBRATION); BLACKS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS KWANZAA (94%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HISTORY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); WRITERS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); MARINE MAMMALS (68%); MUSIC GENRES (64%); MUSIC (64%); 

PERSON: KARENGA, MAULANA (DR); COPAGE, ERIC V

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



196 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Hunger to Spare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While I enjoyed and agreed with much of Dana Milbank's review of Janet Poppendieck's "Sweet Charity? Emergency Food and the End of Entitlement" (Oct. 18), I question some of the assertions of your reviewer. If Poppendieck says that food providers should stop feeding people and concentrate on lobbying the Congress, I cannot agree; there is an immediate, growing need for direct feeding programs. On the other hand, when the reviewer cites the continuation of emergency needs despite job growth, there is no mention of the fact that a lot of these new jobs are at the minimum wage, leaving the worker still dependent on food supplements from someone. The discussion of possible solutions is interesting, but it fails to focus on how the overall economic system itself (of which the food system is part) fails to deliver adequate food (or income) to the sixth of the nation that is below the poverty line. I would submit that an in-depth analysis of how food is produced and distributed in this country (and worldwide) would indicate that elimination of some of the injustices in that system might obviate the need for many of these emergency programs by either government or private charity. It is a longer and more complex story than the review (or, I have to assume, the book) tells.
 
Martin M. McLaughlin
Arlington, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: SWEET CHARITY? (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); LITERATURE (64%); 

PERSON: MCLAUGHLIN, MARTIN M; MILBANK, DANA; POPPENDIECK, JANET JANET POPPENDIECK (88%); DANA MILBANK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



197 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3378 words

HEADLINE: The Patron Saint Of Paradox

BYLINE: By Paul Elie; Paul Elie is an editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux. His last article for the magazine was about Pope John Paul II's relationship with the Jews.

 BODY:
When she died, a multitude came down to the old dwelling off the Bowery to pay their respects, the way people had come to Catholic Worker houses for soup ever since the Depression. There were Catholic Workers, social workers, migrant workers, the unemployed; addicts, alcoholics, anarchists; Protestants, Jews and agnostics; the devout and the strident and the curious, there to see what a saint looked like.
Dorothy Day died in 1980, at the age of 83. She was one of the greatest religious figures of the century, and one of the most paradoxical. She was a Catholic and she was an anarchist. She condemned poverty and she advocated it. She founded the Catholic Worker, a loose aggregation of "houses of hospitality," communal farms, newspapers and round-table discussions for "further clarification of thought" -- and called her memoirs "The Long Loneliness." The movement was wary of authority, yet revered her as its leader. She humbled herself before God and sat for a portrait by Richard Avedon. 
 "Don't call me a saint -- I don't want to be dismissed that easily," she once said, to no avail. A year ago, to mark what would have been her 100th birthday (today would have been her 101st), John Cardinal O'Connor of New York, a lifelong admirer, announced that he would take up the cause for her canonization. "If anybody in our time can be called a saint, she can," he said.
It was an honor, and it was another paradox. For the prospect that Dorothy Day might be declared a saint was welcomed by everybody except the Catholic Workers, the very people pledged to emulate her sanctity today.
The old-time Catholic Workers who were close to Day support the canonization effort wholeheartedly. But many Workers, especially the younger ones, see the church remaking a rebel for its own purposes, and find her synthesis of rock-ribbed Catholicism and radical politics impossible to attain today. They find it twisted that Dorothy Day, a pacifist who opposed even World War II, should be celebrated by Rear Adm. John J. O'Connor, retired, a former head chaplain to the United States Navy. They object to his notion that Day -- who became a Catholic after having an abortion -- could become a poster saint for the church's anti-abortion efforts. "People feel that Dorothy's too good for the church, and are afraid of what will happen once the church gets its mitts on her," says Robert Ellsberg, a former Catholic Worker, now the editor in chief of Orbis Books, a progressive Catholic press.
When Day's sainthood was first brought up 15 years ago, one of her nine granddaughters called the idea "sick." Then the high priest of the Catholic left weighed in. "Her spirit haunts us in the violated faces of the homeless in New York," wrote Daniel Berrigan. "Can you imagine her portrait, all gussied up, unfurled from above the high altar of St. Peter's?"
The conflict has since taken shape as a battle over property, with the Workers claiming squatter's rights to Day's legacy while the church exercises its power of eminent domain. Those in favor of sainthood depict her as "a loyal servant of the church Jesus had founded" (her words) who prayed the rosary on the barricades. Those opposed are afraid the Vatican's saint-making priests will evict her from the underworld of tenements, flophouses, rallies and jails and recast her as the Patron Saint of Soup Kitchens, a kindhearted woman who dabbled in anarchism on the side. "They're going to take the best of Dorothy and remove it, like a lobotomy," says Jeff Dietrich, a Catholic Worker in Los Angeles.
Saints, in the Catholic tradition, are holy people who call forth the devotion of the faithful, even after they are dead. Since becoming pope in 1978, John Paul II has canonized 280 saints, more than any previous pope. And the Vatican has simplified the process, reducing from four to two the number of miracles needed (say, the inexplicable cure of a person who prayed for the saint's aid) and doing away with the "devil's advocate," who argued against the prospective saint's cause.
Why so many saints? John Paul doubtless has a number of objectives. The new saints reflect the worldwide presence of the church and stand in contrast to the modern cult of the self. But mainly they embody John Paul's view of history. Whereas many popes have seen the church as above or outside of history, he sees the church in the thick of it. So he has made saints of people who made history, however controversially. Last month, for example, when he canonized Edith Stein, a Jewish philosopher who converted to Catholicism, became a nun, then was killed as a Jew at Auschwitz, he affirmed -- defying scruple -- in effect that the church was on the right side of history during the Holocaust, suffering with the Jewish people.
The ensuing controversy hung on whether Edith Stein died as a Catholic or as a Jew. The controversy over Day is different. Nobody would deny that she was a Catholic, and most people think she was a saint, even those who care little for the church. What complicates matters is that these people don't agree about what it was that made her saintly. The tussle over her legacy is no simple tug-of-war between the Catholic left and the Roman right. It involves a range of conceptions of what it means to be Catholic, and the one that prevails very likely will be the prevailing form of Catholicism in the next century.
Cardinal O'Connor went to Rome in September, taking a sheaf of recollections of Dorothy Day written by her old friends. Meanwhile, in flats and tumbledown farmhouses and "houses of hospitality," Catholic Workers are watching his every move. Their friend and foundress is their pearl of great price. Each day she passes further out of their hands and into those of the church. If they are a touch possessive, who can blame them?
Twice a year, the patrons of the Radical New York Walking Tour pause at St. Joseph House on East First Street to hear the story of Dorothy Day. Before she was a saint, Day was a bohemian in Greenwich Village, drinking all night and wandering into strange churches at dawn. She rallied for the masses, went to jail, married on the rebound, wrote a novel, fell in love and bore a child, all before she abruptly became a Catholic at age 30 in 1927. Her lover scorned her. So did her radical friends. One day in 1932 she returned home to find Peter Maurin, a French "troubadour of God," waiting for her. They founded the Catholic Worker there and then.
Day called her Catholic Worker column On Pilgrimage, and she crisscrossed the country by bus to visit Catholic Worker houses, taking her breviary, her diary and a jar of instant coffee. She went to Cuba to meet Castro and to Rome to fast in St. Peter's Square for peace, yet was so identified with the Lower East Side that people would invariably show up at St. Joseph House and expect her to greet them at the door.
The house still looks the way it did when Day was in charge, furnished with beat-up chairs and a cast-iron stove out of a Grimm tale. A pot of coffee brews perpetually. The movement names no leaders; in New York, the closest thing is Carmen Trotta, a musclebound 35-year-old man with thick brown hair.
He and I set out to join a few old-time Workers for further clarification of thought at a local bar. "In the old days," he says, "the Workers would stand on the corner selling copies of the paper until they had enough change for a drink. You'd have to sell an awful lot of papers today."
The Catholic Worker newspaper still costs a penny a copy. It is still a broad sheet full of articles about labor, politics and the life of faith, with a statement of "Aims and Means": yes to "personalism," manual labor and a green revolution, no to usury and bureaucracy. But the subject between the lines is change. While Day and Maurin aspired to "build a new society within the shell of the old," today a new society is being built in the shell of the old Lower East Side. Galleries and boutiques have replaced the junk shops and flophouses. The Workers used to serve 300 meals a day; now they serve half as many.
Some people have suggested that the Catholic Workers have outlived their mission in the Village, but they are there to stay, questioning change. How should they respond to gentrification -- by protesting, by homesteading or by founding a satellite house in the Bronx? Should they welcome Ivy League volunteers who want to pad their resumes, or insist on poverty as a way of life? These questions are usually answered through further clarification of thought. So Carmen Trotta spends many hours with the old-timers asking them what Dorothy would have done.
Yet Day's refusal to institutionalize the movement has left Catholic Worker houses elsewhere free to experiment. Unity Kitchen Committee in Syracuse offers "lavish hospitality" -- dinner with china, cutlery and fresh flowers -- as a response to Day's adage that "nothing is too good for the poor." Casa Juan Diego in Houston provides English classes, sanctuary for illegal aliens, first aid for battered women and coffins for the dead. After the Archdiocese of Los Angeles announced plans to build a new cathedral -- estimated cost, $163 million -- Catholic Workers broke into the old one and hung a banner out the bell tower: "We Reclaim the Church for the Poor."
So it is no great surprise that the Catholic Workers have as many ways of being Catholic as of serving soup. A house in California sponsored "a gay marriage" (the two men later "divorced"), and one in Denver held a mock Mass led by some Sisters of Loreto. "There are some crazy joints out there, some things that would turn a bishop's hair a little whiter," says Tom Cornell, an old Worker who now lives at Peter Maurin Farm in upstate New York.
How vital is the Catholic faith to the Catholic Worker's mission? Ann O'Connor of Unity Kitchen thinks the Worker must be more faithful to the church; Jeff Dietrich thinks the church must become more like the Worker, strengthening its "prophetic dimension" through street protests. And while Mark and Louise Zwick of Casa Juan Diego in Houston think prayer and worship are as vital as rice and beans (when supplies run low, they pray), the Workers at St. Francis of Assisi House in Chicago say that they are first and foremost anarchists.
The Catholic Worker is Catholic, but it is unsure how or why. Its members hold beliefs ranging from traditionalism to the radical fringe, with each deciding for himself or herself what the faith is. It is like the Catholic Church throughout the United States, that is, and the question -- in the movement, and in the church -- is whether this diversity is a form of strength or a kind of religious decadence.
Last January, the new Archbishop of Chicago shook up a group of lay leaders by declaring that "liberal Catholicism is an exhausted project." Curious, I paid him a visit one evening at his residence, a Victorian pile on the Gold Coast, the ritziest neighborhood in Chicago. Dusk was falling on the lake, and the house's 19 chimneys stood out against it like upraised fists at a rally.
Francis Cardinal George wears big glasses and walks with a limp. He showed me around the mansion, plainly ill at ease there ("this decor is early funeral parlor"), and we settled in the only small room in the place. His predecessor, Joseph Bernardin, stared down at us from his portrait.
The Cardinal declared his enthusiasm for the cause of Day, recalling the time she shocked his seminary class by criticizing President Kennedy. "It's the Catholic Worker now that I'm worried about," he told me. "At the end of her life she said, 'They've turned day into night,' and I fear she was right."
I asked him to explain his remark about "liberal Catholicism." He began by stressing that Day was no liberal. "She was an anarchist," he said. "Now, there's no reason why an anarchist can't be a saint. All kinds of people have been saints. But for all her anarchism, she said nothing about the structure of the church. No, she was an anarchist because she saw the state, the modern liberal nation-state, as a rival to God's church."
So who were the liberals? The Cardinal declined to name names. "Liberal Catholics are people who look to the culture to reform the church. Nowadays, if you're a feminist, say, you see the church as just one more sinful structure in need of reform. But remember, Dorothy Day did not turn her criticism of the social order on the church. Don't get me wrong. I don't mean that church leaders and even church structures aren't open to criticism. But if you call into question the entire Christian project, as the liberals do, you end up with nothing but a critique, and the air gets thinner and thinner and the church becomes a club for good causes. That's not what Dorothy Day was about."
I cast my eye around the Cardinal's house, which owes as much to the culture of Gilded Age Chicago as to the Catholic Church. Dorothy Day sought to make the rich poor and the poor holy. What did he make of this?
"Dorothy Day was a romantic of poverty -- she saw poverty as a sign of God's presence," he said. "Her view is important. It will always be important. But it will always be on the fringes of the church as a corrective, not as mainstream Catholicism. Anarchy is not mainstream Catholicism."
Cardinal George's view is what one would expect from a traditional Catholic churchman, celebrating a holy woman for her fidelity to the church. But it also reflects the assumptions of Catholic neoconservatives.
Day and Maurin initially opposed the New Deal, believing that charity was no business for "Holy Mother the State." So neocons and "theocons" (religious neocons) have invoked Day as an antiliberal spokeswoman, posthumously opposing the welfare state.
How can the court philosophers of the Republican Party claim a poor anarchist as one of their own? By way of the very paradox that led the poor anarchist to Catholicism in the first place. Day was drawn to the church when she realized that the huddled masses she loved were not Communists but Catholics. So it is for the neoconservatives. They see the church as the only organization that can persuade the masses to resist the liberal, vulgar, consumerist drift of American society. So Day must be held up as an ordinary, decent Catholic whom the people in the pews can emulate, even as they vote their pocketbooks.
Yet Day thought "policy" a dirty word. "For Catholic Workers, the soup line is the think tank and the seminar room," says Patrick Jordan, an editor of Commonweal and a former Catholic Worker. "That's where you make policy."
Nowhere is this more so than with abortion. When Day became pregnant in 1919, the father threatened to leave her unless she aborted the child. She did so, but he left her anyway. When she became pregnant again, this time by a man she loved, "I knew that I was going to have my baby baptized a Catholic, cost what it may," she said. It cost her her lover. Her conversion followed.
Today, while many, even most, Catholic Workers see abortion as an act of violence that must be resisted, they see the church's campaign against legal abortion as an attempt to enlist the state to enforce holiness. When USA Today reported Cardinal O'Connor's remark that Day might become "the patron saint of the pro-life movement," many Workers were alarmed. At a meeting in Nashua, N.H., an old Worker named Jack Cook rose in his chair and denounced the plan as "a form of spiritual abuse." He was applauded. "She could have, at any time, come out publicly and politically against abortion," Cook explained. "She did not.. . . When she spoke of abortion, it was in terms of forgiveness, not criminality."
Day's response to abortion is crucial to the canonization process because she is a role model for thousands of Catholic women in the United States, an American Mother Teresa. The two figures -- who met in India in 1970 -- are often cast as the two archetypes of contemporary Catholic activism: one a nun who stressed charity, the other a lay woman who called for justice. In a talk last year, though, the Jesuit priest Thomas Reese stressed what they had in common -- not as women but as devout Catholics who had devoted themselves to fixing the world rather than reforming the church. Father Reese went on to ask why so many Catholics are bent on the latter, why the conflicts among Catholics often seem like quarrels over a brand name, with the players so worked up over what it means to be Catholic that they lose sight of the holy.
The obvious reason is that the church stands in need of reform. But there are reasons behind the reasons. It may be that the Catholic leaders who would confront society -- the Mother Teresas and Dorothy Days -- are in short supply. The experts expatiate on the shortage of priests, but the real shortage is of authentic Catholic leaders of any kind -- of the saints among the living, that is.
Aug. 6 is the Feast of the Transfiguration, devoted to the Gospel episode in which Jesus blazed bright before two disciples' eyes. It is also the date the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, and pacifists grimly mark the day.
This August, a group of Catholic Workers fasted for three weeks on the sidewalk in front of the United Nations, urging an end to sanctions against Iraq. Aug. 6 was their 12th day, and the previous evening, Daniel Berrigan said Mass for them at St. Joseph House. He has said Mass there off and on for 30 years, and he, more than anybody, is seen there as Dorothy Day's successor, a Catholic striving to be holy. But Berrigan is not a leader. Since he fled the F.B.I. in 1970 after burning Federal draft files, he has held to the path of radical purity and apartness.
Berrigan rose from his seat to give the homily; draping a stole over his paisley shirt, he consecrated the Eucharist at the prep table in the back. Then the fasters, drawn and wasted, trudged toward him to receive Communion. They were among old-timers and college students, young Jesuits and aged nuns, married couples with their kids. Carmen Trotta ambled up to the altar, his hair cut military-short; he had organized a "demo" at the U.N. for the next day.
The Catholic Worker felt, just then, like an authentic community. Yet something -- someone -- was absent. Long after Day's death, her sanctity is preventing a successor from emerging to lead the movement. The Worker, like the church in general in this country, is so agonized over its structure and the integrity of its name that it scants the personal sanctity that could bind it together.
"Whatever I had read as a child about the saints had thrilled me," Day once wrote. "I could see the nobility of giving one's life for the sick, the maimed, the leper." But, she recalled, even as a child, she asked: "Why was so much done in remedying the evil instead of avoiding it in the first place? . . .Where were the saints to try to change the social order, not just to minister to the slaves, but to do away with slavery?"
The child responded by becoming a saint herself. As it happened, her sanctity demanded more than social change. It lay in her ability to reconcile opposed ideas and make the result seem the soul of fidelity. Robert Ellsberg has called her a Saint of Common Ground, around whom very different people can come together and try to be holy. But she just as well might be known as the Patron Saint of Paradox. Her life, with all its parts, was of a piece.
The only St. Dorothy, then, is the whole Dorothy Day. Even at its swiftest, the canonization process will extend well into the next century, as the saint-makers take depositions from people who knew her, draft a hagiography, judge any miracles and try to see whither the spirit bloweth. Meanwhile, there will be conflicts over what she did and what she meant. People will read her books and pray for her intercession. Some will give their lives to her work. Some will give a few Saturday mornings. The Catholic Workers will play devil's advocate; and if and when the banner bearing her likeness is unfurled at St. Peter's, the Catholic Church will be a little more like the Catholic Worker, if only because of all the further clarification of thought along the way.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Latter-day saint? Day at a union rally in 1973. (Bob Fitch/Black Star); Before she was a Catholic, Day was a pious anarchist. (U.P.I./Corbis-Bettmann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CATHOLIC WORKERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CATHOLIC WORKERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CATHOLIC WORKER MOVEMENT; BEATIFICATIONS AND CANONIZATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ABORTION (60%); NAVIES (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: ELIE, PAUL; DAY, DOROTHY (1897-1980) RICHARD AVEDON (55%); CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



198 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
The E-Lancer Eats a Bagelwich

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
How are new words created? What's the logic behind neologisms? How can you, working at home, coin your own words for fun and profit?
Here is how you can amaze your friends and dismay your derogators by displaying your hidden ingenuity. The secret: knowing your combining forms. 
 Take -ware. This started out in the Sanskrit vasna, "price," and came to mean, in English, things of value -- "goods." We used this combining form for articles made of clay (earthenware) or a range of tools (hardware). Then, in 1960, as computers came on the scene, we had the need for a word to describe the programming needed to go with the hardware. Coinage: software, the opposite of "hard" with the combining form-ware. That was only the beginning: if a company promises new software and doesn't meet its deadline, the nonproduct is derided as vaporware.
Last month, in a harangue against gloom-and-doom economists wringing their hands about a global crisis, I had the need for a name for what ailed them. What's the combining form for an ailment? Often it's -itis, as in sinusitis. So I blazed away at those afflicted with global crisis-itis. Strictly a nonce coinage, but it fit the moment's vituperative need.
In the spring 1998 issue of American Speech, A Quarterly of Linguistic Usage, Adrienne Lehrer of the University of Arizona has an article about "Scapes, Holics and Thons: The Semantics of English Combining Forms." She describes how "source words" like Watergate get splintered, with a portion becoming a combining form, from Carter's Billygate to Reagan's Irangate to Clinton's Monicagate. In the same way alcoholic spawned workaholic and chocoholic, as -holic became a combining form meaning "hooked on."
Take a familiar word like sandwich, a culinary creation named after the fourth Earl of Sandwich in 1762. Say you are a bagel baker and you want to use your product instead of bread to purvey smoked salmon and cream cheese. You put up a sign: bagelwich. Everyone instantly knows you are pushing a sandwich made on a bagel. Across the street, a Francophile competitor puts up his own sign: croissantwich, and your customers desert you, mouths fixed for croissants stuffed with the filling of their choice.
Same with hamburger, originally chopped meat enjoyed by residents of Hamburg, Germany. Using the -burger combining form, we come up with cheeseburger and now veggieburger, with a score of variations in between. You get the meaning instantly with no explanation needed, even if you've never seen or heard the word before. Quick: what is a turkeyfurter? (It could be wurst: Would you like to wash one down with a vodkatini? You need no help to make the leap to these neologisms based on frankfurter and martini.)
Jargonauts (a play on Argonauts and an example of the -nauts combiner used by Reaganauts) like to use -speak as their combiner. The source word is George Orwell's newspeak, and it spawned everything from my Haigspeak (Al Haig's "Snakecheck that" and shades-of-gray nuancal) to the San Fernando Valley girls' Valspeak ("grody to the max").
Let's leave behind the -holics and -thons. (Just as a television marathon blends to telethon, an unending stream of faxes becomes a faxathon.) We can also skip the -scapes. (Landscape, the source word, led to coinages of seascape, moonscape, cityscape and Xeriscape, "parks created with little need for water.")
Turn to the fifth letter of the Roman alphabet for the combining form now most in vogue: I've been keeping a fair weather eye on the letter E.
"More of us will work as E-lancers," said Snigdha Prakash, an NPR reporter, in the course of an interview, defining the term as "free agents who are electronically linked to other soloists for specific projects, and move on when the work is done." These are the unaffiliated employed ("drifters," we used to call them), and the term is a rhyming play on freelancer, originally a mercenary soldier of the Middle Ages, now often a middle-aged soloist.
When electronic mail, coined in 1977, was shortened five years later to E-mail, it became the combining form of the Information Age, muscling aside its competition on the prefix menu, cyber- (from the Greek kybernan, "to govern").
Now we have E-text published in an E-zine (often shortened and pronounced "zeen"). You can buy an airline E-ticket with E-money or E-bucks (terms that have bankrupted cybercash), unless you want to use E-credit, a form of Internet dealing known as E-commerce or E-tailing. That last is a play on retailing and, as in E-lancer, the letter E does not stand only for "electronic."
Dr. Wayne Glowka, an editor of the Among the New Words section of American Speech, reports that E-gifts of E-bouquets are often given by members of the E-generation. (Want to subscribe? Send $35 to Duke University Press, Box 90660, Durham, N.C. 27708-0660. Sorry, I don't know how to do it electronically.)
All of this, plus generations of new terms as yet uncoined, will be sneered at as E-speak, a product -- just think of it -- of two combining forms, which I have just coined this instant unless some E-reader of my E-text beat me to it.
 
NOBODY'S PERFECT
In a smirking swipe at the use of "what is is" by the only President we have, a language maven noted that has there been was in the past perfect tense.
As Lise Nazarenko, a lecturer in English at the University of Vienna, noted: "Has there been is not in the past perfect tense, but rather in the present perfect tense. Past perfect would be had there been."
Perfect, in its most familiar sense, means "flawless"; in an earlier sense, it meant "complete." That sense of "finished" is what we use in grammar: a verb form expressing an action that is complete at the time of speaking or at the time spoken of. And since has is present and had is past,"has there been" is, as the entire Gotcha! Gang has gleefully pointed out, in the present perfect tense.
 

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (78%); UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (74%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (78%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (78%); UNITED STATES (74%); ARIZONA, USA (74%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (78%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LINGUISTICS (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (66%); SINUSITIS (51%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



199 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 25; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY: NOVEMBER 8, 1998: THE NATIONAL DEBT;
Depressing Displays

 BODY:
From its perch over the Hop Won Express restaurant on Sixth Avenue in New York City, between 42d and 43d Streets, the National Debt Clock has been bumming out pedestrians since 1986. It is a computerized billboard, consisting of 305 light bulbs, that keeps track of America's outstanding loans, adding an average of nearly $10,000 a second to a number that has topped $5 trillion.
 But in the second week of September the Debt Clock shut down. Why? Had the first budget surplus in years ended the debt crisis? Could we celebrate? 
 Nope. The man with the answers is Douglas Durst, president of the Durst Organization, a New York real-estate developer whose late father, Seymour Durst, put the clock up at his own expense to remind America of its fiscal recklessness. Durst says the clock went black simply because "the computer couldn't take it anymore -- the numbers were too high." But, he adds, "we're fixing it."
 The repair job falls to the Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation, which originally built and installed the clock. Tama Starr, company president, says the clock's computer conked out at around $5.5 trillion. To fix it, Artkraft is installing a newer, more powerful computer, a modern desktop that can be controlled by either Artkraft or Durst. The Debt Clock should be up and bumming again by the end of the month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DURST ORGANIZATION; ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP (69%); DURST ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DURST ORGANIZATION; ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP DURST ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: URSTADT, BRYANT; DURST, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998



200 of 753 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2487 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Palace of Dance Takes Up With a More Practical Muse

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
CITY CENTER used to be a place where, as one critic complained, a cloud of dust rose when Tosca stamped her foot.
The neo-Moorish fantasy on West 55th Street began its second life in 1943 as a "people's theater," where the performing arts could be enjoyed for $5.95 an orchestra seat, a price raised only in 1968. 
 The former Shriners' temple soon became known as a lovably dowdy home for the arts, where generations of audiences grew up watching all-American companies like the New York City Opera, the New York City Ballet and the Joffrey Ballet grow with them. Theatergoers could see the Lunts, Paul Robeson and Tallulah Bankhead perform, along with a raft of musical revivals.
In the years that followed, the center had as many ups and downs as that opera heroine. There were lean years when it struggled to keep its doors open, a poor relation to the gleaming Lincoln Center a few blocks north and a daunting challenge to a succession of would-be saviors.
The latest is Judith E. Daykin, a briskly pleasant 57-year-old former administrator with the Paul Taylor Dance Company and the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Seven years after she was appointed president and executive director by the theater's board, City Center is sporting a gleaming new look and personality.
Much of that fresh spirit is attributable to the huge success of "Encores: Great American Musicals in Concert," which opened at City Center in 1994. The series of rarely heard musicals performed in semi-staged concert versions with original orchestrations and star turns by popular performers has become the darling of critics and audiences alike. On Friday, another theatrical group, the Stratford Festival of Canada, opens for a two-and-a-half-week season. If successful, the troupe plans to return each year to City Center.
Ms. Daykin has expanded many of City Center's activities, including fund-raising, marketing and booking. The number of weeks that the theater is occupied has increased from her first season: 22 companies and events are scheduled over 33 weeks this season; while 13 companies performed over 17 weeks in the 1991-92 season.
After retiring the theater's accumulated debt of about $750,000 in her first year, she has increased the number of board members, educational programs and box office hours. She also created an annual gala that nets $300,000, representing the bulk of donations from a board that is recognized more for its ideas than its ability to raise money. The current annual operating budget is $9.5 million, about 60 percent of which is earned. The red-upholstered 2,300-seat theater itself -- with its wide, shallow mezzanine and first and second balconies -- and the backstage warren of small offices and studio spaces have been spruced up.
A major goal for Ms. Daykin and her board is for City Center to be booked 11 months of the year. One step in that direction has been to make the theater almost exclusively a rental, a departure from the years when City Center presented, or paid, companies to perform, taking care of their expenses in return for box office receipts. This season, under the new scheme, there have been some disappointments when several well-reviewed troupes failed to do expected business at the box office.
Still, her admirers believe that Ms. Daykin is on her way to making City Center a viable, financially healthy institution in an era of declining attendance at music and dance performances. "What was a struggle to survive is now a struggle to grow," said Raymond A. Lamontagne, who has been on the board for four years.
However, Ms. Daykin has her detractors. City Center's changing relationship with dance over the last decade has been the subject of much report-writing and pained discussion in dance circles both in and outside New York. Some believe that City Center, once a theater with seven resident dance companies, has abandoned the art, and there are frequent complaints that the staff can be difficult to deal with. In response, Ms. Daykin said, "I think we have the most extraordinary arts staff in the city, and we bend over backward to provide services for our user companies." Company directors and others working in dance who were interviewed for this article declined to speak critically about City Center on the record. "There's nowhere else to go," one administrator said.
The days are gone when the center regularly presented companies that performed dance, though dance troupes account for 12 of the 22 bookings in the current season. The only attraction that City Center is financing on its own is the "Encores" series. It is co-presenting the Stratford engagement with the Canadian theater company, a $1 million project for which the two institutions have raised $300,000 and are projecting an $850,000 box-office return.
The center charges a $35,000-a-week rental fee to nonprofit arts companies for use of the theater, some equipment and some services. That sum, Ms. Daykin said, is only 46 percent of the total cost of keeping the theater open for a week, so that City Center ultimately subsidizes the remaining 54 percent of the cost. (Three dance companies with annual seasons at City Center -- the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Paul Taylor Dance Company and American Ballet Theater -- receive an additional discount of $5,000.) Even so, the cost of performing at City Center is prohibitively high for most dance companies, in part because of stagehand wages, which are not included in the rental fee and are comparable to stagehand rates at Broadway theaters.
Yet a New York season is still considered an important part of a dance company's development and companies regularly raise money to lose at City Center. The total cost of a week's engagement there for a major New York ballet or modern-dance troupe, can range from $130,000 to $800,000, depending on the company's size, the lavishness of its productions and whether it uses taped music or an orchestra. (The top orchestra seat price for dance at City Center is $58 for American Ballet Theater.) Most mainstream ballet and modern-dance troupes are too big for the chief alternative, the 472-seat Joyce Theater on Eighth Avenue in Chelsea.
"We knew we could not afford to present, because if we presented one company we would have to present all of them," Ms. Daykin said. As a result, she has brought in more drama, including the National Theater of Greece, in response to what she perceives as a changing cultural climate. "The dance boom is over," she said. "I couldn't keep the theater lit."
Ross Kramberg, executive director of the Paul Taylor troupe, said: "City Center is one of the larger prestigious venues available to us. As I understand it, other comparable venues are more expensive and scheduling is tighter where there are resident companies."
The theater most similar to City Center is the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center, which has two resident companies and few open weeks. The State Theater charges $100,000 a week for the 2,792-seat house and the front-of-house staff. The fee does not include the salaries for stagehands, which are close to Broadway stagehand wages. But because of the different services and equipment provided by the two theaters, total production costs work out to be about the same.
 AUDIENCES arriving this week and next to see the Stratford Festival productions of "Much Ado About Nothing," with Brian Bedford, Martha Henry and William Hutt, and "The Miser" will find a handsome, freshly painted and carpeted theater. Built for the Shriners in 1923, the Mecca Temple had passed into the city's possession for nonpayment of taxes and was to be turned into a parking garage when Mayor Fiorello La Guardia stepped in to save it.
La Guardia and Newbold Morris, president of the City Council, envisioned a theater like Carnegie Hall and the Metropolitan Opera House in everything but ticket prices, with in-house rehearsal space for the artists who would perform there. The new theater would be nonprofit, owned by the city and leased for $1 a year to City Center's governing organization, today the City Center 55th Street Theater Foundation.
La Guardia's rescue was not to be the last time City Center was saved. One blow to the theater's coffers -- and pride -- occurred when the City Ballet and City Opera abandoned the theater in the mid-1960's for the State Theater at the new Lincoln Center. In 1975, City Center nearly folded, but was saved by a consortium of dance companies that took on the running of the theater.
By the time Ms. Daykin arrived in early 1992, City Center, though now a declared landmark, was caught in another downward spiral. Hired to save as well as run it, her responsibilities include programming, booking attractions and dealing with the theater's staff, the labor unions and the companies performing there. Ms. Daykin, who grew up in Illinois, began her professional career as an actor, director and stage manager and has had long experience in theater and dance. She now commands a mini-empire from her ninth-floor offices above the auditorium.
Theatrical productions have played a major role in City Center's history, starting from its first month as a theater, when it was called the New York City Center of Music and Drama. The Manhattan Theater Club is based at City Center, where it has rented two auditoriums since 1984. But it is the success of the "Encores" series, which Ms. Daykin began with Theodore S. Chapin, president of the Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization, that has been crucial in the current rejuvenation of the center.
The series is now fully subscribed, although some seats are available, Ms. Daykin said. This season "Encores" is presenting "Babes in Arms," Feb. 11-14; "The Ziegfeld Follies of 1936," March 25-28, and "Do Re Mi," May 6-9, for five performances each. "That's probably all we'll ever do," Ms. Daykin said about the number of performances.
"Encores" is expensive, she added, costing $1.7 million a year to produce; the series earns $1.35 million at the box office (an orchestra seat is $55), with City Center making up the difference. "Of course, we have funders who are very devoted to it," Ms. Daykin said. "And it got attention from people who, if they were not interested in dance, had not paid attention to City Center. Returnees translate to givers, which translates to corporate givers."
Not coincidentally perhaps, membership at City Center has increased, bringing in $200,000 this year as compared with $8,000 in Ms. Daykin's first year. And the move to Broadway of the "Encores" production of "Chicago," with companies performing around the nation and abroad, has meant small royalties for City Center.
"I've been struggling with how to further exploit that," Howard M. Squadron, the longtime chairman of City Center's board, said with relish. "I'd like to find out how to take a show like 'St. Louis Woman' and give it some summer weeks or get it on television." The 1946 Harold Arlen/ Johnny Mercer musical starred Vanessa L. Williams and ended last season's series with ecstatic reviews.
 MS. DAYKIN'S enthusiasm for theater has also brought the Stratford company to City Center. She attended the festival in Ontario for 30 years, she said, and she and Richard Monette, the festival's artistic director, are friends. "Negotiations would have broken down, except that Judith was very keen on this idea," Mr. Monette said. "I kept giving up, but she was tenacious."
This shift toward theater occurred in part because Ms. Daykin sensed that City Center lacked an identity. "Lots of companies played here," she said. "The audiences were devoted to those companies, but not to this theater. There was no money to be raised because there was nothing to be raised for."
The city contributes about $1 million a year to City Center. "It's a frail relationship," Ms. Daykin said about the city's role as a financial sponsor. "The money is nowhere near to keeping pace with inflation or to the support before 1990, when the biggest cuts to city buildings occurred."
That other frail relationship in the life of City Center, its connection to dance, may undergo some changes. A study is now under way, commissioned by the dance program of the New York State Council on the Arts, that addresses the feasibility of creating a 1,000-seat house in Manhattan, larger than the Joyce Theater but smaller and presumably more affordable than City Center.
Robert Yesselman, who is conducting the study, said that Beverly D'Anne, the head of the state council's dance program, "was reacting to what she'd heard at panel meetings year after year about the need for affordable theaters and rehearsal space."
The study, expected to be completed by the end of the year, explores alternatives to City Center that include booking a block of time at the theater to be built at Columbus Circle by Jazz at Lincoln Center, building a new theater or renovating an existing one.
Ms. Daykin said she doubted that it would be cheaper for dance companies to perform in such a theater. "It will never be cheap to play a large dance company in New York," she said.
Mr. Squadron raised another issue: "I do think it's true that there are companies that are too big for the Joyce and not up to a theater like City Center. But I'm not at all sure that there are enough such companies that could fill a 1,000-seat theater. We can close off the second balcony and even part of the first balcony at City Center to make a 1,200- to 1,600-seat theater. It's very difficult, it seems to me, for someone to come up with a formula that is perfect. The companies are so different in size and resources." The rental fee stays the same, however.
Ms. Daykin said that her vision for the future of City Center, which was at first simply to keep it open and functioning, did in fact include dance. "What should City Center be doing?" she asked rhetorically. "We should try to help insure the dance companies' success here. We can't afford to pay all their bills. We must present and produce other arts that do not compete with dance. The more activity, the better we do."
A workable mix of bookings, she said, would be for City Center to finance 30 percent of its attractions; to have 30 percent more as rentals to nonprofit arts groups, and rent a further 30 percent at higher market fees to companies operating commercially.
Ideally, she said, the new audiences brought in by "Encores" and the Stratford Festival will cross over and try the dance companies, whose brochures are on display in the front lobby: "If theater people come in and see all the dance materials, realize they didn't pay too much and can see the stage, and had a nice brownie in intermission, maybe they'll come back to see some dance. The same is true for dance audiences.
"Music, theater and dance all have a place at City Center, just as LaGuardia envisioned."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judith E. Daykin at the City Center theater; (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); inset, William Hutt, Brian Bedford and Martha Henry in the current staging of "Much Ado About Nothing." (Cylia von Tiedemann/'Much Ado About Nothing' (inset))(pg. 7); Vanessa L. Williams and Stanley Wayne Mathis in "St. Louis Woman" at City Center last season. Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY CENTER (NYC) CITY CENTRE RESTAURANTS PLC (91%); CITY CENTRE RESTAURANTS PLC (91%); IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY CENTER (NYC) IMPERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ANCIENT ARABIC ORDER OF THE NOBLES OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE FOR NORTH AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DANCING; MUSIC; THEATER DANCE (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); BALLET (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FESTIVALS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUDGETS (64%); 

PERSON: DAYKIN, JUDITH E; DUNNING, JENNIFER PAUL TAYLOR (68%); PAUL LEROY ROBESON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1998

 
