

1 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 616 words

PERSON: Roger Milliken 

HEADLINE: Roger Milliken, 95, Conservative Tycoon

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Roger Milliken, a South Carolina textile magnate who supported conservative causes and was instrumental in building the state into a bastion of the Republican Party, died Thursday in Spartanburg, S.C. He was 95.
Mr. Milliken, a billionaire whose Milliken & Company was based in Spartanburg and was one of the largest textile and chemical firms in the nation, manufactured materials used in products as varied as flame-resistant gear for firefighters and the balloons in the annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. One of his products gives Jell-O pudding its smooth creaminess.
He was a generous supporter of conservative Republicans and an early backer of Barry Goldwater's 1964 run for president. 
Beginning in the 1960s, Mr. Milliken provided the financial and intellectual muscle that helped the Republican Party come to dominate politics in South Carolina, which had been a Democratic Party preserve since Reconstruction.
He maintained close ties with a generation of conservative Republican senators who for decades dominated Southern politics, including Jesse Helms of North Carolina and South Carolina's Strom Thurmond, whom Mr. Milliken is sometimes credited with helping to persuade to switch from the Democratic to the Republican Party in 1964.
Mr. Milliken was a Republican delegate to eight national conventions, most recently in 1984. In 2008, he supported Duncan L. Hunter, a California congressman, for the Republican presidential nomination.
Mr. Milliken, who was born in New York City on Oct. 24, 1915, took over the family's textile business in 1947 after the death of his father, Gerrish. The company was co-founded by his grandfather Seth Milliken in 1865.
Mr. Milliken studied French history at Yale University and was known for quoting economic theorists like Adam Smith and Friedrich List, and for warning about what he regarded as the link between nations that allowed their manufacturing bases to decline and the demise of those nations.
Mr. Milliken, who was a vocal opponent of the North American Free Trade Agreement, was seen toward the end of his life as an almost quixotic figure as he sought to protect South Carolina's textile industry from lower-priced foreign competitors.
While other American textile mills have succumbed to international competition during the past 25 years or so, the focus of Mr. Milliken's company on innovation helped it prosper. The company has produced more than 2,000 patents and developed the largest textile research center in the world, according to the company's Web site.
One of the ways Mr. Milliken kept costs down was by aggressively fighting efforts to unionize his workers.
In 1956, he closed a textile mill in Darlington, S.C., after workers there voted to form a union. He was sued by the employees, and after a lengthy court battle he was ordered to pay a $5 million settlement.
Mr. Milliken pushed for racial integration at Wofford College in Spartanburg in the 1960s, volunteering to support the college financially if its acceptance of black students drove other financial backers away. The college eventually integrated voluntarily.
He was also a supporter of the arts and became well known in Spartanburg for his love of trees, friends said. In 1999, he established the Noble Tree Foundation to encourage the planting of trees in the area, particularly in rundown neighborhoods.
Mr. Milliken also gave millions of dollars to local educational institutions, including Wofford College and Converse College, also in Spartanburg.
Mr. Milliken's wife of 55 years, Justine Van Rensselaer Hooper, died in 2003. He is survived by two daughters, Justine Russell and Nancy Milliken; three sons, Roger Jr., David and Weston; and nine grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Roger Milliken in 1964. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); TEXTILES (89%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); MISC FOOD MFG (75%); HISTORY (73%); CHEMICALS (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); GARMENT WORKERS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); PATENTS (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MILLIKEN & CO INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (72%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (72%); SIC2211 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, COTTON (72%)

DUNCAN HUNTER (58%); ADAM SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



2 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: A Building, and a City, As a Way Station To a Better Life

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
For two years, a five-story walk-up apartment building in the Bronx has served as a small beachhead for a new immigrant community: refugee families from the South Asian nation of Bhutan. From this new home on University Avenue, where they were placed by a resettlement agency, the families have made their first, tentative steps in an unfamiliar culture and language.
But now they are on the move again. In the year since The New York Times profiled the building and the eight Bhutanese families who were living there, four of the families have left for other states -- Virginia, Pennsylvania, Vermont and North Carolina -- and most members of a fifth have moved to Albany. 
''It's a tough decision, trying to move from one place to another,'' said T. P. Mishra, 26, who spent much of his life in a refugee camp in Nepal before coming to New York in July 2009, and is now living in a quiet suburb of Raleigh, N.C. ''But obviously when you compare the life, it's better.''
Such relocations, sometimes known as secondary migration, are common among immigrants to the United States as they chase jobs, reunite with relatives and climb the social ladder.
Yet the experiences of the families on University Avenue also say something about New York. Often portrayed as an ideal spot for new immigrants, with its array of public services and advocacy groups and its fertile mix of ethnicities, the city may not necessarily have all that a newcomer needs to build a future. Indeed, a trove of census data released in December shows how immigrants to America in the last decade have spread out from the big cities where they have traditionally clustered, or bypassed them altogether.
This is especially true for new immigrant populations like the Bhutanese, who, numbering more than 250 since 2008, have arrived in New York in small numbers and lack established social networks to turn to for support. Some are improvising, creating those communities elsewhere -- in smaller, less expensive cities where relatives have already been resettled.
Those who have left the Bronx building said they were driven out of the city mainly by the high cost of living, particularly rent.
During his year in New York City, in the throes of the economic downturn, Mr. Mishra and his two sisters struggled to find jobs and were barely able to cover basic expenses, including the $975 monthly rent for their one-bedroom apartment. While new refugees have immediate access to financial support and other services from government and private sources, that aid often begins to dissipate after several months.
''I was used to living in the city, but finally when it turned expensive, I was compelled to leave,'' said Mr. Mishra, who moved to North Carolina to be closer to several friends and relatives who had been resettled there.
Officials at the International Rescue Committee, the resettlement program based in New York that brought the Bhutanese to University Avenue, acknowledged the difficulties that the city posed for many refugees. While New York offers extraordinary advantages, they said, including an extensive public transportation system and a network of organizations accustomed to working with immigrants, it could also be costly and, for some, emotionally overwhelming.
''The placement system is imperfect,'' said Robert Carey, the agency's vice president for resettlement and migration policy. ''It's an educated effort to put people where they're best served.''
Regardless of where they are initially placed, Mr. Carey added, refugees will go where they think they have the best chance of building a successful life. ''People are independently finding their way at a certain point, which is not all bad,'' he said. ''They have to determine what's going to work for them.''
Abhi Siwakoti, another Bhutanese refugee, decided to leave New York City after trying for months to cover his family's expenses, including the $1,200 rent for a two-bedroom apartment in the University Avenue building.
Mr. Siwakoti, 25, who had resettled in the Bronx from Nepal in November 2008, was living with his mother, who did not speak English, and three siblings, all of them still in school. He was the only one with a job, but his salary as an office assistant in a Manhattan men's wear design studio was not high enough.
Fifteen of his relatives had been resettled from Nepal to Albany, so Mr. Siwakoti looked for a job there. A hospital hired him as a patient support associate, and in March he moved his family into a three-bedroom apartment in Albany with an $800 rent.
He has saved enough to buy a used car and start building a nest egg. And the concentration of so many relatives in one place has given his family an instant net of support. They share meals, drive one another to the supermarket and to work, and swap information about job opportunities.
They also pass along modern-world skills that were unheard of in the rural Nepalese refugee camps. After Mr. Siwakoti attended a driving school in the Bronx, he began teaching his two brothers, an uncle and a cousin. In turn, he said, they will teach other relatives and friends. ''That's the philosophy that I'm passing along,'' Mr. Siwakoti said. ''It's kind of so beautiful to be together.''
For some families, though, that requires a series of deliberate, chesslike moves.
Mr. Mishra, who relocated this fall to Raleigh with his wife, Renuka Adhikari, 24, is already planning another leap, to Charlotte, N.C. There they will join his two sisters, who moved to Charlotte to help relatives adjust to life in the United States. And sometime in 2011, he hopes to welcome his parents, who are still in a Nepalese refugee camp and have started the paperwork for their resettlement.
''The community has been struggling a lot,'' Mr. Mishra said. But soon, he predicted, ''the community will settle down.''
Meanwhile, the building on University Avenue continues to be an incubator for the American lives of refugees from Bhutan. As families leave, others arrive.
Suk Man Tamang, 32, who came in the summer of 2009 with his parents, two sisters and a niece, has since welcomed eight other close relatives to the building and is expecting at least eight more to resettle in New York this year. But unlike some of his Bhutanese neighbors, he said, he has no plans to leave the city anytime soon.
''Everywhere has negative and positive points,'' said Mr. Tamang, an office assistant for a Manhattan software company. ''I can say I'm happy now because we have a big family getting bigger and bigger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: T. P. Mishra, a Bhutanese refugee, in Raleigh, N.C., after moving from the Bronx. His walls, top, include family photos and religious iconography. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Mishra used to live in this building on University Avenue in the Bronx. It has been the first American home for a number of Bhutanese families. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Abhi Siwakoti, a Bhutanese, in his Albany apartment. He left the Bronx after trying for months to cover his family's expenses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CITY LIFE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); COST OF LIVING (66%); CITIES (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (56%); CENSUS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) BHUTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (90%); NEPAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



3 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Career Shift Doesn't Always Pay Off for Jobless

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Even the lucky ones are not so lucky, it seems.
A new study of American workers displaced by the recession sheds light on the sacrifices a large number have made to find work. Many, it turns out, had to switch careers and significantly reduce their living standards.
''In many cases, these people are not very happy,'' said Cliff Zukin, professor of public policy and political science at Rutgers University and one of the authors of the study. ''They're the winners who got new jobs, but they're not really what they want, and not where they want to be.'' 
The study, conducted by the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers, was based on a survey of Americans around the country who were unemployed as of August 2009 and re-interviewed about their job status twice over the next 15 months.
As of November 2010, only about one-third had found replacement jobs, either as full-time workers (26 percent) or as part-time workers not wanting a full-time job (8 percent).
And of those who successfully found work, 41 percent had switched into a new career or field.
Some of these may have been workers who retrained for new fields they wished to enter, but many seem to have taken their new jobs out of desperation. Only a minority of those displaced workers changing careers -- 22 percent -- said they had taken a class or a training course before finding their new job.
''Look, I am really happy to have a job -- that's the main thing,'' said Sue Bires, 60, who was laid off from a job managing homeowners' associations in Orlando, Fla., in September 2008. She initially had another job lined up with a different realty association in Orlando, but when that fell through, she moved to Austin, Tex., to stay with a friend. She filed for bankruptcy and took a job at a call center.
But she now earns $30,000, far below the $45,000 she was paid when she was managing properties.
''It's competitive out there, even for the lower paying jobs, especially when you're 60 looking for a job in a young town,'' Ms. Bires said. ''So I'm grateful to have a job where the people are nice and I have a little bit of flexibility in my hours. That's especially important now, since retirement is looking like a long way off.''
Like Ms. Bires, most of those forced to switch careers generally seemed to downgrade their job status.
Nearly 7 in 10 of the survey's respondents who took jobs in new fields say they had to take a cut in pay, compared with just 45 percent of workers who successfully found work in their original field.
Of all the newly re-employed tracked by the Heldrich Center, 29 percent took a reduction in fringe benefits in their new job. Again, those switching careers had to sacrifice more: Nearly half of these workers (46 percent) suffered a benefits cut, compared with just 29 percent who stayed in the same career.
Many of those who found work in a different field say they have come to terms with the limited opportunities, but they are reluctant to see their new job as a calling.
''I wouldn't go so far as to say I've switched careers, since I'm not exactly sure this is a career, but I'm definitely doing something different,'' said Adam Kowal, 30, of Royal Oak, Mich.
After being laid off from a job as a quality control supervisor at a department store warehouse and losing his house, he moved his family across the state to live with his mother. Unable to find similar work, he initially took a ''soul-sucking'' temporary job on an assembly line making auto parts, and is now working in a kitchen at a high school.
His hourly wage has fallen from $15 an hour at the warehouse to $10.50 an hour washing dishes and preparing food, and he has gone from having health insurance coverage for his whole family to no benefits. He, his pregnant wife and their 4-year-old son are now on Medicaid.
''I'd love to go back to what I was doing,'' he said, or even into what he described as his true passion, full-time screenwriting. ''But when I talk with the unemployment office here in Michigan, they tell me the chances of going back and using the same skill set I had before are pretty farfetched.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sue Bires was laid off as a manager in Florida. She now works at a call center in Texas, but earns $15,000 less a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



4 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Boomers Hit Another Milestone Of Self-Absorption: Turning 65

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY; Jack Begg contributed research.

 BODY:
In keeping with a generation's fascination with itself, the time has come to note the passing of another milestone: On New Year's Day, the oldest members of the Baby Boom Generation will turn 65, the age once linked to retirement, early bird specials and gray Velcro shoes that go with everything.
Though other generations, from the Greatest to the Millennial, may mutter that it's time to get over yourselves, this birthday actually matters. According to the Pew Research Center, for the next 19 years, about 10,000 people ''will cross that threshold'' every day -- and many of them, whether through exercise or Botox, have no intention of ceding to others what they consider rightfully theirs: youth.
This means that the 79 million baby boomers, about 26 percent of this country's population, will be redefining what it means to be older, and placing greater demands on the social safety net. They are living longer, working longer and, researchers say, nursing some disappointment about how their lives have turned out. The self-aware, or self-absorbed, feel less self-fulfilled, and thus are racked with self-pity. 
So, then, to those who once never trusted anyone over 30: Raise that bowl of high-fiber granola, antioxidant-rich blueberries and skim milk and give yourself a Happy Birthday toast.
''The stork's 1946 diaper derby left a controversy today that rocked the cradles from coast to coast,'' The Associated Press reported 65 years ago. ''The maternal question of the moment was: Who was the first baby born in the new year?''
The wire service named several contenders, from a newborn girl named Darleen in Los Angeles to a baby boy named James in St. Louis -- to the infant identified only as ''the son of Mr. and Mrs. Aloysius Nachreiner, of Buffalo.'' Readers of that news item could not help wondering:
What is to come of this son of Buffalo? Who will he be?
The Nachreiner boy, along with these other bundles of innocence, were the very first of what has come to be known, rather graphically, as the ''pig in the python.'' After the travails and absences of the Depression and World War II flattened the birthrate, the promise and prosperity of the postwar years created a sharp rise in births that lasted from 1946 until 1964, when the popularity of birth control pills helped stem the tide.
Ascribing personality traits to a bloc of 79 million people is a fool's endeavor. For one thing, people born in 1964 wouldn't know the once-ubiquitous television hero Sky King if he landed his trusty Songbird on their front lawns, just as people born in 1946 wouldn't quite know what to make of one of Sky King's successors, the big-headed H. R. Pufnstuf.
For another, the never-ending celebration of the hippie contingent of boomers tends to overshadow the Young Americans for Freedom contingent. After all, while some boomers were trying to ''levitate'' the Pentagon to protest the Vietnam War, other boomers were fighting in that war.
Steven M. Gillon, the author of ''Boomer Nation: The Largest and Richest Generation Ever and How It Changed America'' (Simon & Shuster, 2004), warns against generalizing about baby boomers, especially when it concerns politics. Still, he says, the boomer generation, of which he is a member, clearly changed our world. Here's a simple generalization -- that is, explanation -- of how:
Previous generations were raised to speak only when spoken to, and to endure in self-denying silence. But baby boomers were raised on the more nurturing, child-as-individual teachings of Dr. Benjamin Spock, and then placed under the spell of television, whose advertisers marketed their wares directly to children. Parents were cut out of the sale -- except, of course, for the actual purchase of that coonskin cap or Barbie doll.
''It created a sense of entitlement that had not existed before,'' Mr. Gillon said. ''We became more concerned with our own emotional well-being, whereas to older generations that was considered soft and fluffy.''
The boomers may not have created rock 'n' roll, but they certainly capitalized on its potential to revolt against parents. And they may not have led the civil rights movement, but they embraced it -- at least, many of them did -- and applied its principles to fighting for the rights of women and gay men and lesbians. They came to expect, even demand, freedom of choice; options in life.
''But the pig has moved through the python, and is moving to the final stage,'' Mr. Gillon said. ''And we won't describe what that stage is.''
Here is an attempt: retirement, old age, then a release to a place where the celestial Muzak plays a never-ending loop of the Doobie Brothers.
About 13 percent of the population today is 65 or older; by 2030, when the last of the baby boomers are 65, that rate will have grown to 18 percent. In addition to testing the sustainability of entitlement programs like Social Security, this wholesale redefinition of old age may also include a pervading sense that life has been what might technically be called a ''bummer.''
A study by two sociologists, Julie Phillips of Rutgers University and Ellen Idler of Emory University, indicates that the suicide rate for middle-aged people, notably baby boomers without college degrees, rose from 1999 to 2005. And Paul Taylor, the executive vice president of the Pew Center, summed up a recent survey of his generation this way:
''We're pretty glum.''
This gloominess appears to be linked to the struggling economy, the demands of middle age and a general sense of lofty goals not met by the generation that once sang of teaching the world to sing in perfect harmony, and then buying it a Coke.
No one person can represent all 79 million members of a generation. But perhaps one person can remind us of the small epiphanies and private pains that define all generations.
Remember the son of Mr. and Mrs. Aloysius Nachreiner, the first baby born in Buffalo in 1946, thus making him one of the country's first baby boomers? Well, his parents named him Aloysius, too -- though he was often called Butch.
His father was a bagger at a feed mill; his mother raised their three children in the first floor of a rented duplex. When he was 5 years old, he was blinded in his left eye during a snowball fight with his friend Billy. He liked watching Roy Rogers and Howdy Doody on the family's round, black-and-white television, and rooted hard for Mickey Mantle.
Al, or Butch, graduated from a vocational school with plans to become an auto mechanic, but that never happened. He wound up making his career as a setup man and press operator for a folding box company.
He married an older woman named Alice, a widow with seven children who loved Elvis Presley. They had two daughters, but one died of crib death. They bought a house in a Buffalo neighborhood nicknamed Iron Island because it was surrounded by railroad tracks.
He played fast-pitch softball for many years, pitching for who knows how many bars and taverns, but gave it up a few years ago because his knees would hurt for days after a game.
Two years ago, two days after their 40th wedding anniversary, his Alice died, after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease. She left him with two dozen grandchildren and a half-dozen or so great-grandchildren. ''As long as they all don't come over at once, it's all right,'' he says, laughing.
Mr. Nachreiner still works, making boxes from 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., five days a week. In his free time, he roots for the hapless Buffalo Bills, uses his computer -- ''though I'm not very good at it'' -- and, when not visiting family, relaxes at home with his Jack Russell terrier, Trixie, where a portrait of Elvis hangs on the wall.
He does not devote much time to pondering the traits of his generation, or his status as an early baby boomer, or even the fact that come New Year's Day he will turn 65. What he says of it all is what all those baby boomers behind him hope to say one day:
''I made it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOTABLE EVENTS IN THE FIRST BOOMERS' LIVES
Aloysius Nachreiner, born on Jan. 1, 1946, has spent his life in Buffalo and made his career at a folding box company. Left, Mr. Nachreiner with his grandmother in 1960.
 Mr. Nachreiner returning home from his shift, 7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., five days a week, at the Designers Folding Box Corporation in Buffalo. His wife of 40 years died two years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: A Year Older, But Not 'Old': On Jan. 1, 2011, the first members of the Baby Boom Generation will turn 65. By 2030, when the last of the baby boomers pass this milestone, 18 percent of the population will be 65 or older. (Source: Centers for Disease Control (birth rates)) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



5 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

PERSON: MURAT KARAYILAN 

HEADLINE: A Kurdish Rebel Softens His Tone for Skeptical Ears

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Stephen Farrell and Namo Abdulla contributed reporting from Qandil, Iraq, and Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul.

 BODY:
QANDIL, Iraq
HIGH in the craggy mountains of Iraq's northern frontier, where men (and, in this case, women) with guns have long operated beyond the control of any government, Murat Karayilan sounds more interested in pursuing peace than the war he has led against Turkey.
''We are not weak,'' Mr. Karayilan said in an interview in this village, where he and other fighters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or the P.K.K., represent the law of the land, despite official claims to the contrary.
''Our youths are always ready, hot-blooded and combative, but we want the Kurdish problem -- as a nation's problem, as a people's problem -- to be solved not by guns, but by dialogue.''
Many will doubt Mr. Karayilan's sincerity, especially in Turkey. The party's violent struggle has lasted more than a quarter-century and cost 40,000 lives. But now, perhaps more than ever before, there are indications that the war may have reached its endgame. 
And that has put Mr. Karayilan -- either a noble insurgent fighting oppression or a narco-terrorist commander -- at the center of a different kind of offensive.
He has been making the case for Kurdish rights in Turkey in surreptitiously arranged, if not exactly clandestine, interviews from his mountainous redoubt, irritating officials on both sides of the border who would rather see him fade into obscurity.
''The Kurdish people are an ancient people in the world,'' he said. ''All their national and linguistic rights have been denied. Our goal is to achieve those rights.''
Mr. Karayilan's party, long designated a terrorist organization and since last year a drug trafficker by the United States, has declared a new cease-fire and already extended it into the new year. Whether by design or under duress, the party has reduced its own political demands, tempered by the profound political and economic changes that have swept Turkey and Iraq.
Mr. Karayilan no longer calls for a separate Kurdish state, but for a degree of autonomy within Turkey that is inspired by, but stops considerably short of, the federal system the Kurds set up for themselves in Iraq after the American invasion in 2003.
Iraq's Kurdish leaders, eager to expand trade and cross-border cooperation, have supported efforts to end the fighting, offering their own model of self-determination and rising prosperity as an example. Even as officials in Turkey rule out negotiations with the party itself, intermediaries have held secret talks to discuss the possibility of a lasting peace, according to officials in Iraq and Turkey.
The presence of the P.K.K. has long been an irritant in relations, prompting cross-border raids and bombings as recently as last summer. Increasingly, though, it would seem to be a surmountable one.
''We continue to remind all: Violence will not be the way to solve this issue,'' said Barham Salih, the prime minister of the Kurdish regional government in northern Iraq.
Iraq's Kurds are ''mindful of our relationship with Turkey,'' Mr. Salih added. The experience of the Kurds within Iraq's democratizing if not yet fully democratic system ''dispels the notion that the Kurds are a destabilizing element in this part of the world,'' he said.
''We don't have to be stuck in the conflicts in the past,'' he said.
MR. KARAYILAN is a garrulous man, portly but fit, mustachioed and nattily dressed in the handmade olive-gray uniform that the party's fighters wear. His past is murky enough that the United States Treasury Department's official terrorist designations give two birth dates for him, making him either 56 or 60.
He has been the day-to-day commander of the Kurdistan Workers' Party since its charismatic founder, Abdullah Ocalan, was captured in 1999, tried and sent to an island prison in the Sea of Marmara.
The leadership moved to Qandil shortly afterward, and its fighters live more or less openly in what amounts to an undeclared haven. Its fighters -- a large number of them women -- adhere to a disciplined, ascetic lifestyle. While they have always used the mountains as refuge, the toppling of Saddam Hussein has made this much easier -- to the chagrin of the Turkish government, which routinely complains to the United States and Iraq to do more to curtail the P.K.K.'s movements.
''For the first time in history, the Kurds have breathing space,'' said the movement's spokesman, Roj Welat.
Mr. Karayilan's exact base is, of course, kept secret, but the party's presence in the gorges around Qandil is not. Uniformed fighters maintain a checkpoint on the road from the Kurdish regional capital, Erbil, not far beyond the last official checkpoint.
The party's flag flutters over its territory, while Mr. Ocalan's portrait hangs ubiquitously. Mr. Ocalan remains the movement's revered leader, but he ''is not in a position to giver orders'' from prison, as Mr. Karayilan put it, though his messages and writings are still circulated.
The party runs a clinic with a German doctor and a factory to make the uniforms. It neatly tends a cemetery with a 30-foot white obelisk that looms over the graves of Kurdish fighters from Iraq, Turkey, Iran and Syria.
Mr. Karayilan said donations from Kurds in their homeland or abroad sustained the movement. American and Turkish officials say smuggling does. As for weapons, Mr. Karayilan smiled coyly when asked. ''You can get whatever you want,'' he said. ''It's the Middle East.''
The party unilaterally declared a cease-fire after an eruption in cross-border violence from 2007 to 2009. The lull has largely coincided with concessions from the Turkish government under Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan to expand rights for the country's Kurdish minority by, for example, allowing a Kurdish-language television station and Kurdish-language studies at universities.
Mr. Erdogan's government has ignored the party's announced terms for an end to violence altogether, including the release of arrested Kurdish political activists and the creation of a reconciliation commission like the one in post-apartheid South Africa. Instead the government has struck a more nationalistic tone before elections in June. Nevertheless, the government is expected to offer some new gestures for Kurds in hopes of marginalizing Mr. Karayilan's group.
''Some of the things listed as preconditions are already part of the democratic standards by our government for all of our citizens, not only for Kurds,'' said Omer Celik, a member of Parliament and one of Mr. Erdogan's leading political advisers.
Mr. Karayilan said the Turkish government lacked the political will to pursue a true peace, though, tellingly, he did not close the door on a negotiated resolution.
He spoke for nearly two hours in a cinder-block house here in Qandil, not far from another house badly damaged by two Turkish bombs in the summer.
He traveled with only a small retinue of guards in Toyota Land Cruisers and took few other precautions. When the interview ended, he apologized for not being able to stay for dinner.
For all his polite charm, he remains strident at times, denouncing what he called Turkish occupation, oppression and genocide. But the outline of an accommodation that he sketches no longer seems so far-fetched.
He urged the United States, as well as other nations, to stop seeing the conflict through the prism of the ''war on terror,'' but rather through that of self-determination. ''It is the cause of a nation that needs to be addressed,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MURAT KARAYILAN (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); NARCOTERRORISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (97%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



6 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Poor Districts Shortchanged On Earmarks

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ and JO CRAVEN McGINTY

 BODY:
Councilman Charles Barron of Brooklyn represents one of New York's most troubled neighborhoods, where violence runs rampant and the median income hovers near $34,000.
But when it came time to dole out discretionary grants last year, the City Council gave Mr. Barron one-seventh the amount it gave the councilman representing a far wealthier neighborhood next door.
Mr. Barron was furious. ''We don't have enough to go around,'' he said. ''It's killing our programs.''
Lawmakers covet the $18 million pot of money distributed by the Council every year, saying that despite its relatively small size, it was a crucial way to respond to community needs. 
But in distributing that money, the Council has neglected lawmakers who serve some of the city's poorest neighborhoods, an analysis of financial records by The New York Times shows. Each of the 51 council members gives out grants, or earmarks, ranging from $80,000 to more than $1 million.
Mr. Barron, who serves parts of East New York and Brownsville, received about $137,000 last year, while his neighbor to the south, Councilman Lewis A. Fidler, got $967,000.
Other high-poverty areas also got the short end of the stick. In the South Bronx, Councilwoman Helen D. Foster received about $80,000 last year and in 2009. And in Washington Heights and Inwood, Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez received $200,000 in 2010.
In the race for earmarks, status often trumps economic need, council members say. Council leaders and those who curry favor with the speaker, Christine C. Quinn, consistently win the largest share of the pot.
In an interview, Ms. Quinn, who has the final say in how the money is distributed, disputed the idea that needy districts had been ignored or that politics played a role in the process. She said the Council took pains to ensure that struggling neighborhoods received adequate money from a variety of sources.
''The focus is often much more on the organization and the work they're doing,'' Ms. Quinn said. ''Is there a need? Can this group fill that need?''
The plight of poorer districts is not universal. Some council members who represent low-income districts receive substantial sums. For example, the majority leader, Joel Rivera of the Bronx, was granted more than $700,000 last year.
Still, at a time when city officials are rethinking nearly every line in the city's $60 billion budget, the grants have received new scrutiny.
Beyond the politics of the issue, the use of earmarks has been undermined by a series of scandals that led to criminal charges against two council members and investigations into several others.
Ms. Quinn has fought to preserve the money, saying it is a lifeline to many communities and small organizations. In an effort to stamp out corruption, the speaker has instituted rules requiring greater transparency, stricter ethics and heightened oversight of groups requesting money.
But the rules have not stopped criticism that the pool of discretionary grants functions as a tool for reward and punishment for Ms. Quinn. Several council members said they worked to stay on Ms. Quinn's good side in hopes of winning a sizable share at the end of the fiscal year.
In June, Elizabeth S. Crowley, a councilwoman from Queens, angered Council leaders when she issued a news release in the middle of budget negotiations taking credit for saving 62 firehouses.
When the list of earmarks was released later that month, Ms. Crowley was near the bottom, receiving $80,000, the same amount as Larry B. Seabrook of the Bronx, who was indicted last year on charges of money laundering, extortion and fraud related to his use of discretionary funds.
Well-established nonprofit organizations based in Manhattan, like the Brain Tumor Foundation, often beat out smaller groups in the other boroughs, like the Bedford-Stuyvesant Residents Association, an advocacy group.
In fact, organizations with Manhattan addresses received $5.7 million in grants last year, while groups on Staten Island received $1.4 million, groups in the Bronx received $1.8 million, groups in Queens received $3.7 million, and groups in Brooklyn received $5.1 million. Some organizations, however, including many in Manhattan, have offices that serve high-poverty communities in other boroughs.
Some have called on Council leaders to eliminate the use of earmarks or to devise a system to distribute the money more fairly.
''This system is a relic of a different era,'' said Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president. ''It's time to mend it or end it.''
Mr. Stringer, who plans to release his own study of the Council's discretionary spending, said the city should consider distributing the money on the basis of economic need for each district, or simply give each member an equal amount.
Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a government watchdog group, argued for an equal distribution of the money. ''No district should suffer based on the relationship of the council member to the speaker,'' he said. ''That is not very good democracy.''
But supporters of the current system say that the earmarks are a nimble means of helping needy communities, and that Ms. Quinn's citywide vantage point made her the best person to determine how to distribute them.
Mr. Fidler, the Brooklyn lawmaker, said discretionary grants represented a tiny portion of the aid given by the city to neighborhoods. ''Why single this out as if it's the only thing in the world?'' he said.
Mr. Fidler, who as assistant majority leader is part of Ms. Quinn's leadership team, said it was his responsibility to advocate for his district. He said he made sure to point out to Ms. Quinn and her budget staff the results of his spending: more instruments at local schools, for example, or a new ballet program.
''It is a matter of making the request and being sensitive to the politics of the institution,'' Mr. Fidler said. ''That's part of being a good legislator.''
The discretionary money is used to finance a variety of programs: Little League teams, after-school clubs, music conservatories and churches. Some large organizations consistently receive the most money.
Powerful council members also reap the largest amounts. Last year, Domenic M. Recchia Jr., the Finance Committee chairman, received more than $1 million -- the largest amount for a single member.
Each council member also receives, in addition to the grants, a flat sum of money each year -- about $260,000 -- to spend on programs for youths and seniors. Ms. Quinn has her own fund, totaling nearly $18 million, to distribute to organizations primarily of her choosing. In total, the Council devotes about $49 million to earmarks each year.
In the current system, there is no evaluation of how small grants are spent or how effective they are in serving communities.
Mr. Dadey, of Citizens Union, said the Council should require groups to file reports explaining how they used the funds. ''New Yorkers don't mind their taxpayer dollars being spent in support of a public interest,'' he said, ''so long as they are spent well and achieve the outcome that they're supposed to.''
Some supporters of the system have argued that the money eventually ends up in the areas that need it the most, even if it is not distributed equally at the outset. A council member might finance a literacy program based in Brooklyn, for instance, that also has robust offerings in the Bronx and Queens.
But Mr. Barron, one of the Council's most incendiary members (he once accused Ms. Quinn of behaving like a ''white supremacist'' in a dispute over a Council aide's suspension), challenged that reasoning.
''We want the contracts and the jobs,'' Mr. Barron said. ''We have people who know how to deal with all the issues of our district.''
Brooklyn Housing and Family Services, which helps low-income residents avoid eviction, was one of the groups that Mr. Barron turned away last year.
As a result, Carol Finegan, the director of administration for the organization, said the group, which serves primarily Chinese, Haitian, Hispanic and Russian immigrants, may have to reduce its staff.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Haves and Have-Nots: Grant money available to City Council members varies greatly among districts. Below are examples of the extremes. (Source: New York City Council) (MAP BY ERIN AIGNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICS (86%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SCANDALS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); CORRUPTION (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



7 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: What a Property Tax Cap Would Do

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Tax-Cap Illusion'' (editorial, Dec. 22) did not make a convincing case as to why Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo should switch his priorities from capping property taxes to addressing the underlying causes of rising taxes. Your editorial called a tax cap ''a blunt instrument that ends up punishing many of the taxpayers and communities in need of relief.''
I agree that the cap is a blunt instrument, which is exactly why I have long supported it. Sound cruel? Not if you know how politics operates in Albany, where complex issues like the state's out-of-control spending get swept aside by too many legislators currying favors and votes. 
A tax cap is necessary if we seriously expect our elected officials to begin dealing with the state's fiscal issues, brought on by declining revenues and ever-increasing spending.
New York's local taxes are now 79 percent above the national average, making them the highest among the 50 states. Property taxes are rising at more than twice the rate of inflation. Meanwhile, New York's population is decreasing, resulting in fewer people left to share this growing burden.
I agree with you on some key points -- the state must find ways to reduce the unfunded mandates it puts upon schools, counties and municipalities; to bring its personnel costs under control; and to facilitate school district consolidations when appropriate.
Just count me among those who are skeptical that our State Legislature will willingly take on any of these complicated and unpopular issues without some brute force being applied. A 2 percent property tax cap is the best method of applying that pressure.
Sandra A. Parker President and C.E.O. Rochester Business Alliance Rochester, Dec. 22, 2010
To the Editor:
Your editorial opposing a property tax cap for New York State misses the mark. The high property taxes in New York are a prime reason that over 1 million residents fled the state in the past decade (even as mostly less prosperous newcomers led to a small population increase). The proposed cap would limit how much localities and school districts may spend without receiving voter consent.
Contrary to your assertion, the cap in Massachusetts has worked well for 30 years and has forced government to live within the means of the citizens. Tough choices are made, but Massachusetts -- hardly a conservative state -- has schools that are more adequately funded and better performing than those in New York.
California's Proposition 13, which froze assessments in an inequitable and unfair way, is not comparable to the spending cap proposed in New York. Laws rigged in favor of public unions by Albany are the real culprit, as well as unaffordable pensions and retiree health care promises.
The sad truth is that New York has driven away private-sector jobs with decades of antibusiness policies. Capping exorbitant property taxes and reforming state laws that drive up local spending are key to the long-term economic renewal of New York.
John J. Faso Kinderhook, N.Y., Dec. 22, 2010
The writer is a former minority leader of the New York State Assembly and was the Republican candidate for governor in 2006.
To the Editor:
Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo is not proposing a property tax cap in isolation but as part of a broad fiscal reform initiative designed to get skyrocketing local government expenses under control.
Property taxes in New York State are almost 80 percent above national norms because of runaway local costs, often the result of Albany-imposed mandates. Vital reforms, like local mandate relief, public employee pension reform and government consolidation, will never happen without the discipline of a property tax cap to control the revenue side of the equation.
Mr. Cuomo has proposed a comprehensive package of fiscal reforms to reduce the cost of state and local government and revitalize New York's economy. The property tax cap is the centerpiece of that package.
And while some may call it a blunt instrument, it is precisely the instrument required to break Albany's logjam on fiscal reforms.
Kenneth Adams President and C.E.O. The Business Council of New York State Albany, Dec. 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (73%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



8 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: On Wall Street, a Year for the Nervy

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
An economy stuck in neutral. Unemployment that refused to go down. And a near financial disaster in Europe.
Despite all the negatives -- and a few surprises, like the terrifying ''flash crash'' of the stock market in May -- 2010 proved in the end to be a pretty good year for investors, especially if you were lucky enough to own shares in highflying technology stocks, old-fashioned industrials or gold.
''In many cases, the conventional wisdom was wrong,'' said Byron R. Wien, a veteran market strategist at the Blackstone Group. ''The market still managed to do well, and the rise in gold and other commodities was a big surprise.''
The typical equity fund in the United States returned nearly 19 percent in 2010, while the Standard and Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.8 percent. That was below the gains of 2009, when the markets rebounded from the financial crisis and the S.&P. index soared 23 percent. 
Few expected such robust results for 2010 when the year began, said Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup.
''People were worried about interest rates going up, double dips and the housing market falling,'' Mr. Levkovich said, just to name a few of the concerns. Those fears have not disappeared, ''but a level of optimism has returned. We didn't go off the cliff.''
So why did stocks do well this year when so much seemed to be going wrong?
One factor, analysts say, was the unexpected surge in corporate earnings throughout the year, helped largely by cost-cutting. Then the government pitched in: The Federal Reserve's decision in early November to pump $600 billion into the economy by buying Treasury assets, along with tax cuts passed by the lame-duck Congress in December, helped propel a year-end rally, lifting the benchmark S.&P. index by about 6.5 percent in December alone.
On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 7.8 points, to 11,577.51. That made for an 11 percent gain in 2010. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was less than a point lower, at 1,257.64. The Nasdaq lost 10.11 points, or 0.38 percent, to finish at 2,652.87.
While stocks performed well over all, a small group of listings played an outsize role. Within the S.&P. 500, Mr. Levkovich said, the top 50 performing stocks contributed about 60 percent of the jump in the index.
Technology was again a star, paced by Netflix, up 219 percent, making it the single best performer in the index. F5 Networks, which makes equipment to manage Internet traffic, was No. 2, rising about 146 percent.
Cummins, the engine maker, took third place with a 140 percent gain. Automakers also did well, with Ford rising about 68 percent even as General Motors returned to the stock market in a $23 billion initial public offering, the biggest in United States history.
But many individual investors missed the party, having taken their money out of stocks. They were scared off, it seems, because of the volatility that followed the brief 1,000-point drop on May 6, the so-called flash crash, as well as lingering concerns from the financial crisis of 2008, including a housing and unemployment hangover.
''Investors in general tend to have a reduced tolerance for risk,'' said Brian Reid, chief economist of the Investment Company Institute.
The institute estimates that investors withdrew $80 billion from domestic equity mutual funds in 2010, while they added more than $250 billion to bond funds. To be sure, investors still have roughly $4 trillion in domestic stock funds, but that flight from the market is reflected in other figures, like shrinking trading volume.
Total volume was down 16 percent from 2009, and was 24 percent below the levels of 2008, according to Howard Silverblatt, a senior index analyst with Standard and Poor's. That ate into the results of major banks and brokerage firms, like Morgan Stanley and Charles Schwab, which rely on trading commissions.
The government bond market was precarious as well. Typically, bond prices go up and yields drop when economic growth is anemic, reversing course when economic activity picks up and the threat of inflation reawakens.
Indeed, as it became clear the economy was sputtering in the spring and the European debt crisis worsened, investors began pouring money into bonds, eventually sending yields to all-time lows by early October. The yield on the two-year government bond, for example, fell below 0.4 percent in early October, a record low.
On Friday, the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 20/32, to 94 13/32, and the yield fell to 3.29 percent from 3.36 percent late Thursday.
But with the announcement of the Federal Reserve's aggressive asset-purchase program and the extension of Bush-era tax cuts that were due to expire, bonds began to sell off in November and December even as stocks rallied, sending yields higher.
James Caron, head of global interest rate and currency strategy at Morgan Stanley, said 2010 was a year of reversals in the bond market. He added, ''You had a 180-degree shift from gloom and doom to optimism.''
For the year, the typical bond fund returned 5.6 percent, according to Morningstar.
Bonds may be a traditional refuge in turbulent markets, but it was gold, a haven for value since ancient times, that really shined. Like bonds, gold benefited from a flight to safety spurred by the European debt crisis. But it also raced higher on fears that budget deficits in Western countries, including the United States, are unsustainable and that lax monetary policies would weaken the value of paper currencies over time.
''People are disenchanted with paper currencies. They want to own something real, and over centuries gold has proven to be real,'' Mr. Wien said.
The returns were real too, with the typical gold mutual fund, including mining companies and a range of precious metals, moving higher by 40 percent. Gold itself rose from $1,096.95 at the start of the year to $1,420.78 on Friday. Crude oil, another closely watched commodity, rose from $79.86 a barrel to $91.38 a barrel on Friday, after rising 78 percent in 2009.
Underpinning the rally, most analysts said, were strong earnings, but in what is likely to be a worry for next year, the profits were bolstered by job cuts and other restructuring efforts, rather than revenue growth.
In the third quarter of the year, for example, earnings were 31 percent higher than last year, but revenue increased by just 8 percent. The disparity was even greater in the first quarter, as earnings jumped 58 percent but revenue rose only 11 percent.
With only so much room to cut costs, analysts say that kind of performance will be difficult to repeat, perhaps boding ill for stocks this year. Analysts expect profits to increase by 13.4 percent in 2011, far lower than the estimated 37.8 percent gain for 2010, according to Thomson Reuters.
To make matters worse, Wall Street is brimming with optimism, which in the looking-glass world of investing can actually be a signal to sell.
''The good news has been priced in, and the potential negatives have been ignored,'' said Jason Hsu, chief investment officer of Research Affiliates, a money manager in Newport Beach, Calif., that oversees $70 billion in assets. ''The market is going to get more nervous at these valuations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dan Akerson, the chief of General Motors, in mid-November after the company returned to the stock market in a $23 billion initial public offering, the biggest in United States history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (B3) CHARTS: EXCHANGE RATES (Source: Bloomberg)
COMMODITIES (Source: Bloomberg)
INTEREST RATES: 10-year government bonds (Source: Bloomberg)
 STANDARD & POOR'S 500 (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INDEX FUNDS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); TAX LAW (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); NETFLIX INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BX (NYSE) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (50%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (50%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



9 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Paving Their Own Way and Helping Their Daughter Develop as a Dancer

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
Whenever life throws an obstacle in Desiree Whitlow's path, she simply changes direction.
Her high school boyfriend strayed nine months after their daughter, Monae, was born, so Ms. Whitlow ended their relationship. She was 19.
''My mom raised me as a single parent,'' she said. ''It gave me the strength and courage to say, 'I'm going to do this. It can be done.' ''
After working 18 years for the City of New York -- first on the midnight shift processing psychiatric patients at Bellevue Hospital Center, then for the Department of Consumer Affairs -- she took a buyout. When subsequent employment proved elusive, she switched careers and became a paralegal. 
When her mother was given a diagnosis of Alzheimer's four years ago, ''we kept her with us at night so she wouldn't wander off,'' Ms. Whitlow said, and when her husband lost his job, ''we adjusted our lives so we could live on what we had and I could take care of my mother.''
In short, she is a survivor. Indeed, living without fear of the unknown is something of a family legacy.
''We analyze a situation, and we find a way out,'' Ms. Whitlow, 54, said one afternoon in her mother's Harlem apartment, surrounded by her husband, Bob, 60; their daughter, Jade, 12; and Ms. Whitlow's eldest daughter, Monae Thomas, 34. ''You make adjustments. I'm always looking at how I can be better.''
Ms. Whitlow credits her mother, Thelma Thomas, 92, with her innate perseverance. Though Ms. Thomas did not make it past the third grade, ''you couldn't tell,'' Ms. Whitlow said, adding, ''She had a lot of common sense.''
Born in Georgia, Ms. Thomas moved to Harlem during the Depression and worked cleaning offices and houses. After her husband died in 1960, she raised her six daughters by herself in the St. Nicholas Houses.
Ms. Whitlow worked her way through a liberal arts education at the College of New Rochelle while raising Monae.
''My mother never had traffic, with relationships in and out, so we didn't experience multiple turnovers,'' Monae said. Mr. Whitlow, who had been divorced, was a friend of the father of one of Monae's classmates. Though Ms. Whitlow was 42, ''we decided to have a child together,'' she said.
''I got set up,'' Mr. Whitlow said, laughing.
Mr. Whitlow had ascended from sales clerk to management at J. C. Penney before the company headquarters were moved from New York to Texas. Desperate for work, he became an interstate truck driver.
But two years ago he was laid off, and most trucking companies demand availability 24 hours a day, six days a week, a difficult schedule for a man his age. When his unemployment benefits expired in April after 99 weeks, the family qualified for public assistance, receiving $160 every two weeks.
Around the same time, Jade, a straight-A student and dance devotee, won a spot in the summer session of the Dance Theater of Harlem. But Ms. Whitlow did not have the $770 tuition. Jade had been studying the performing arts at the after-school program of the Drew Hamilton Learning Center in Harlem, which is operated by the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven beneficiary agencies of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Maxine Shoulders, a case worker there, drew on money from the fund to pay the tuition, and also secured $1,100 for the family's outstanding bills.
After two years of unemployment, Ms. Whitlow found a job in September as a registrar at St. Luke's Medical Group in Harlem but was let go before the probationary period ended. But the same day, Mr. Whitlow was hired to drive four days a week for Access-A-Ride. Ms. Whitlow is again looking for work. Thelma Thomas is no longer speaking or walking, but she does smile at her daughter. ''That's how I know she knows who I am,'' Ms. Whitlow said.
Her mother's condition will deteriorate, but Ms. Whitlow knows that she can do only so much. What will be, will be.
''You do what you can with whatever you have control over,'' Ms. Whitlow said, ''and if you don't have control, why worry?''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Desiree Whitlow and her daughter Jade, 12, visiting her mother, Thelma Thomas, 92. A video is at nytimes.com/nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $3,490,900 Recorded Wed. 131,492 Total $3,622,392 Last year to date $4,023,954 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); LAYOFFS (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); DISMISSALS (74%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); PARALEGALS (69%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (62%); TRUCK DRIVERS (61%); TRUCKING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



10 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Holds Its Own Within China's Vast Economic Shadow

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
One of the biggest beneficiaries of China's rapid economic ascent is not China at all, but rather its historic rival, occasional enemy and fellow socialist neighbor to the south, Vietnam.
Less than a decade ago, many economists and executives believed that China's allure was creating a ''giant sucking sound'' of investment that could be heard in distant Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City.
Vietnam has instead managed to tag along, however, thanks to its own program of economic overhauls, a fast-growing population of 87 million people, cheap labor and a free-trade agreement that has enabled Vietnam to become part of the vast global supply chain that feeds China's manufacturing machine. 
After following China down the path toward communism after World War II, therefore, Vietnam finds itself back in China's ideological slipstream. This time, Hanoi is driving toward what its calls a ''socialist-oriented market economy,'' largely to keep from being run over by China's economic juggernaut.
''If China had not been there,'' said Jonathan Anderson, an economist at UBS in Hong Kong, ''Vietnam may not have opened up.'' Vietnam officially reopened its doors to foreign investors in 1986. But it did not really become part of the Asian economic boom until it won back its former enemy, the United States, which lifted a trade embargo in 1994 and normalized trade with Vietnam in 2000.
The U.S. trade agreement provided special incentives to textile and garment makers, since it immediately cut U.S. tariffs on Vietnamese made brassieres and panties from roughly 60 percent to zero. Textile and garment makers from South Korea and Taiwan flocked to Vietnam to open new factories.
Other light manufacturing soon followed, like home appliances and motorbike assemblers, and another industry hitherto dominated by China -- furniture. ''That whole industry just gradually moved into Vietnam,'' said Frederick Burke, a lawyer at Baker & McKenzie in Ho Chi Minh City who has been working in Vietnam and advising its government for more than a decade.
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2002, however, many feared that Vietnam and indeed much of Southeast Asia's days as a favored destination for foreign manufacturing investment were over. Some economists even warned that the region would have to surrender manufactured export-led development and instead focus on feeding China's voracious demand for raw materials.
China signed a free-trade agreement with Vietnam and the nine other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2002 that seemed to reinforce such fears. While the agreement gave poorer nations like Vietnam until 2015 to open up to Chinese goods, China eliminated tariffs on their agricultural products in 2003.
The agreement was a boon for Vietnam, which aside from being a leading exporter of rice, pepper and coffee, is a net oil exporter. But as other nations like Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand scrambled to climb the value-added ladder with niche products or more technologically advanced products that enabled them at the least to stay in the race with China, Vietnam seemed destined to become a pantry for a rapidly developing China.
Then China stumbled. Rampant technological piracy, nationalist demonstrations and shortages of skilled labor prompted many foreign companies, particularly Japanese, to move some production back to Southeast Asia. Worse, wages in China were rising fast. ''In the late 1990s and early 2000s, you could hire as much labor as you wanted in China. People now talk about rising labor costs,'' said Mr. Anderson.
Waiting with its own well-educated, disciplined but much cheaper work force was Vietnam. The minimum wage in Vietnam's two largest cities is still about $75 a month, as little as half what it costs to hire a worker in China's factory province of Guangdong, according to Dinh Tuan Viet, senior economist at the World Bank in Hanoi.
This year, Intel opened a new, $1 billion semiconductor factory near Ho Chi Minh City to replace facilities in Malaysia, the Philippines and China. Canon's printer factory near Hanoi, with more than 18,000 employees, is the company's largest.
Vietnam has now managed to establish itself firmly in China's supply chain. Many of the parts for Canon's factory come from China, for example, a fact that underscores the downside to Vietnamese efforts to follow in China's manufacturing footsteps -- imports of machinery and equipment from China contribute to a roughly $11.5 billion trade deficit with China as Vietnam races to build up its infrastructure and manufacturing capacity.
Now, with China trying to take its next major leap forward into cleaner, more consumer-focused industries, the question is whether Vietnam has gotten far enough to advance in step with China, Mr. Viet said. ''Is Vietnam ready and capable of absorbing a new wave of foreign investment resulting from 'structural change' in China?'' he asked. ''It seems to me there are still a lot of constraints for Vietnam to take this chance: poor infrastructure and an underdeveloped logistics industry, an abundant but unskilled labor force, etc.''
For all of China's many obstacles, Vietnam still ranks below it in the World Bank's survey on the ease of doing business.
That survey ranks Vietnam above China in starting a business and employing workers, but below China in protecting investors and enforcing contracts. Vietnam also ranks low on Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index -- 116th, compared with 78th for China.
Still, Vietnam seems to have won favor as an alternative to China for foreign investors. Foreign direct investment into Vietnam rose almost fourfold between 2005 and 2008, according to the World Bank, to $9.58 billion, and slipped 20 percent during the crisis in 2009 to $7.6 billion. In China it almost halved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Piaggio scooter and motorcycle factory in Vietnam, which was helped when the United States lifted its trade embargo in 1994 and normalized relations in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHAM/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); TEXTILE MFG (74%); APPAREL MFG (74%); LINGERIE (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (61%); AGRICULTURE (60%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (54%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: BAKER & MCKENZIE LLP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%) VIET NAM (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIETNAM (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



11 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL BATTLE ON IMMIGRATION SHIFTS TO STATES

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Legislative leaders in at least half a dozen states say they will propose bills similar to a controversial law to fight illegal immigration that was adopted by Arizona last spring, even though a federal court has suspended central provisions of that statute.
The efforts, led by Republicans, are part of a wave of state measures coming this year aimed at cracking down on illegal immigration. 
Legislators have also announced measures to limit access to public colleges and other benefits for illegal immigrants and to punish employers who hire them.
Next week, at least five states plan to begin an unusual coordinated effort to cancel automatic United States citizenship for children born in this country to illegal immigrant parents.
Opponents say that effort would be unconstitutional, arguing that the power to grant citizenship resides with the federal government, not with the states. Still, the chances of passing many of these measures appear better than at any time since 2006, when many states, frustrated with inaction in Washington, began proposing initiatives to curb illegal immigration.
Republicans gained more than 690 seats in state legislatures nationwide in the November midterms, winning their strongest representation at the state level in more than 80 years.
Few people expect movement on immigration issues when Congress reconvenes next week in a divided Washington. Republicans, who will control the House of Representatives, do not support an overhaul of immigration laws that President Obama has promised to continue to push. State lawmakers say it has fallen to them to act.
''The federal government's failure to enforce our border has functionally turned every state into a border state,'' said Randy Terrill, a Republican representative in Oklahoma who has led the drive for anti-illegal immigration laws there. ''This is federalism in action,'' he said. ''The states are stepping in and filling the void left by the federal government.''
But the proposals have already drawn opposition from some business groups. And they are forcing strategic soul-searching within the Republican Party nationwide, with a rising populist base on one side demanding tough immigration measures, and, on the other side, traditional Republican supporters in business and a fast-growing Latino electorate strongly opposing those measures.
In Utah, a state dominated by Republicans, leaders from business, law enforcement, several churches and the Latino community sought to bridge the divide by joining together in November in a compact urging moderation on immigration issues.
Some of the more contentious measures may not go into effect immediately, including Arizona-style bills and those intended to eliminate birthright citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants. Latino and immigrant advocate legal organizations are gearing up for a host of court challenges.
Among the states expected to introduce bills similar to Arizona's are Georgia, Mississippi, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and South Carolina.
The Arizona law authorized the state and local police to ask about the immigration status of anyone they detained for other reasons, if they had a ''reasonable suspicion'' that the person was an illegal immigrant.
Acting on a lawsuit filed by the Obama administration, a federal judge stayed central provisions of the law. In November, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit heard arguments on an appeal of that stay by Arizona.
''States will push ahead regardless of the Ninth Circuit,'' said Kris Kobach, a law professor and politician from Kansas who helped many states devise immigration laws -- including Arizona's. ''A lot of people recognize that the district judge's decision is very much open to dispute.''
In Oklahoma, where Republicans won big majorities in both houses of the Legislature and the governor's office, Mr. Terrill said he would introduce a bill he called ''Arizona plus.'' In addition to the terms of Arizona's law, it would allow for the seizure of vehicles and property used to transport or harbor illegal immigrants.
In Georgia, an all-Republican commission of legislators plans to propose measures to enhance enforcement of tough laws already on the books. Georgia will also consider a bill to bar illegal immigrant students from all public universities.
The newly elected governor, Nathan Deal, a Republican, is expected to sign those bills. But the Georgia Farm Bureau, which represents the state's powerful growers, voted to oppose any measures that would affect immigrant farm workers, most of whom do not have legal status.
In Kansas, Republicans won big majorities in both legislative houses and Sam Brownback, who just retired as a United States senator, was elected governor. Mr. Kobach, the law professor, was elected secretary of state after a campaign in which he vowed to pass a law requiring proof of citizenship for voters.
But the Kansas Chamber of Commerce has voiced its opposition, and Mr. Brownback has said he will focus on reducing unemployment.
The newest initiative is a joint effort among lawmakers from states including Arizona, Oklahoma, Missouri and Pennsylvania to pass laws based on a single model that would deny American citizenship to children born in those states to illegal immigrants. The legislators were to announce the campaign in Washington on Wednesday.
A leader of that effort is Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican state representative from Pennsylvania. At a recent news conference, Mr. Metcalfe said his goal was to eliminate ''an anchor baby status, in which an illegal alien invader comes into our country and has a child on our soil that is granted citizenship automatically.''
The campaign is certain to run into legal obstacles. Courts have interpreted the 14th Amendment as guaranteeing birthright citizenship. Even among those who seek its repeal, debate has hinged on whether that would require a constitutional amendment, an act of Congress or a decision by the Supreme Court.
Some Republicans argue that the party is risking losing its appeal to Latino voters, the fastest-growing minority voter bloc.
''The Republican Party is divided between those who see that Hispanics are an essential constituency going forward, and those who don't see that,'' said Tamar Jacoby, a Republican who is the president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a business coalition that supports legalization for illegal immigrants.
Latino and immigrant advocate groups are resigned to being on the defensive for the next two years. ''These laws are creating resentment within the Latino community that is going to last for decades,'' said Tony Yapias, director of Proyecto Latino de Utah in Salt Lake City, an immigrant advocacy group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CITIZENSHIP (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



12 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Resiliency Is Not Uniform Across the World's Stock Markets

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS; Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The global recession that began three years ago lives on in many ways. While most economies are now growing, few developed countries have recovered all the ground they lost. In nearly every country, the gross domestic product in the most recently reported quarter was smaller than at the peak. 
That lag in G.D.P. is small, however, compared with the lag in stock prices. While all stock markets have recovered to some extent from the lows reached in early 2009, when depression fears were great, no major country is close to its 2007 peak.
But while bear markets can take years to recover, industrial economies have been more resilient in the past. In the severe downturn of the mid-1970s -- the longest since World War II until the current one -- France took nine quarters to recover fully, one more than the United States needed. Both economies have been down longer than that this time, and while the United States economy may have climbed back in the quarter just ended, it appears France will take longer.
There were the declines and recovery in both the economy and stock markets in nine industrialized economies. They include the United States, Britain and Japan, as well as six members of the euro zone, which is facing a crisis brought on by the lack of competitiveness of some countries that cannot use the traditional tool of currency devaluation.
The worst performances are in troubled euro zone countries. Both the Greek and Irish stock markets have lost more than two-thirds of their peak values. In Italy, which also faces difficult competitive issues but has not needed a European bailout, the stock market is down more than half.
The Irish G.D.P. for the latest quarter was 12.8 percent lower than in the country's peak quarter, while the Greek figure was down 7.2 percent. The Irish economy is, however, a little larger than it was when it hit bottom in the final quarter of 2009. The Greek economy continues to shrink, and its third-quarter figure was smaller than it was in the same quarter of 2006.
The German economy, which is more dependent on exports than most countries, fell further than did the United States, Britain or France, with a maximum decline in G.D.P. of 6.6 percent. But it has bounced back as world trade has recovered, and it is closer to its peak than either Britain or France.
Both the German and British stock markets -- measured in local currencies -- are closer to their 2007 highs than the United States, which is still about one-fifth below its 2007 high. But France is still down more than a third, and the Japanese stock market has done even worse. It will take much more growth, and much lower unemployment, to persuade investors that they should regain the optimism that seemed perfectly reasonable only a few years back.
The industrialized countries whose economies weathered the storm the best tend to be those with the largest natural resources industries. Australia never fell much, and Canada's G.D.P. is now larger than it was before the downturn. But even those stock markets remain lower than they were.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Stocks: Change since 2007 peak, throughDec. 30
G.D.P.: Change since peak quarter 2007-8, through third quarter 2010 (Sources: Bloomberg
 Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); DEVALUATION (65%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



13 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Success and Failure on the G.E.D.

 BODY:
Nearly 40 million Americans are locked into dead-end jobs because they do not have a high school diploma. A daylong exam called the General Educational Development test, or G.E.D., provides the equivalent of a high school diploma -- and better chances in the job market -- to those who pass it. Nearly 800,000 people take the exam each year, and about 500,000 pass. 
But here is the stunning -- and sad -- truth about this exam: Success depends heavily on where you live. In Iowa, Kansas and Delaware, 90 percent or more of those who take the test pass. In Alabama, Mississippi, New York and the District of Columbia, less than 60 percent pass.
What accounts for the difference? Preparation. States with low success rates do a poor job of prepping students for the exam. The reverse is true in states with high scores. In Iowa, for example, students take a diagnostic pretest, then receive instruction in their weak areas, then take a practice test. In 2009, 98 percent of those who took the test in Iowa passed the G.E.D. exam.
The test is free in some states and costs as much as $400 in others. Either way, states should make sure people have a legitimate shot at success.
A G.E.D. program developed by New York City's Department of Education may help show New York State -- and other states with poor test results -- the way forward. The program uses innovative instructional techniques to make sure students are fully prepared. Over the last several years, the program has a pass rate of about 78 percent, more than 20 percentage points higher than the statewide rate.
The city's program has so impressed the American Council on Education, the nonprofit group that owns the G.E.D., that it will soon begin a pilot program in District 79, which deals with alternative schools and programs. Underwritten by a $3 million grant from the MetLife Foundation, this pilot program is intended to develop a model for educating more adults more quickly so they can pass the G.E.D. and move on with their careers.
These improvements are timely because the G.E.D. test itself is about to get tougher. The new test, to be developed over the next several years, is being revised to conform to more rigorous educational standards proposed earlier this year by the National Governors Association and state school superintendents.
These standards set forth ambitious new goals for what children should learn from kindergarten through high school and have already been embraced by most states. Among other things, they would require students to develop reasoning skills earlier in their educational experience and set higher, college-level standards in math, English and science.
For all these reasons, states -- including New York -- will need to invest much more heavily in programs that prepare people for the G.E.D. At stake is their economic future -- and the country's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNORS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



14 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Roberts Seeks More Judicial Confirmations

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. called on President Obama and the Senate on Friday to solve what he called ''the persistent problem of judicial vacancies.''
The plea, in the chief justice's annual year-end report on the federal judiciary, was an echo of one from his predecessor, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who made front-page news on New Year's Day in 1998 by criticizing the Senate for failing to move more quickly on President Bill Clinton's judicial nominees.
Both chief justices were appointed by Republican presidents, and both said that their interest was not in particular appointees but in a judiciary functioning at something like full strength. 
''We do not comment on the merits of individual nominees,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote on Friday. ''That is as it should be. The judiciary must respect the constitutional prerogatives of the president and Congress in the same way that the judiciary expects respect for its constitutional role.''
But he identified what he called a systemic problem.
''Each political party has found it easy to turn on a dime from decrying to defending the blocking of judicial nominations, depending on their changing political fortunes,'' he said.
The upshot, he said, was ''acute difficulties for some judicial districts.''
The chief justice noted that the Senate recently filled a number of vacancies. Including 19 recently confirmed judges, the Senate has confirmed 62 of Mr. Obama's nominees. There are 96 federal court vacancies, according to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
''There remains,'' the chief justice wrote, ''an urgent need for the political branches to find a long-term solution to this recurring problem.''
The chief justice's report, which was 12 pages long and included four pages of statistics, was largely focused on the judicial branch's efforts to save money in difficult economic times. It did not explicitly press for an increase in judicial pay, a topic that has been a major theme in earlier reports.
The report opened with a sketch of the financial and cultural climate in 1935, during the Great Depression. ''Many Americans sought respite from the nation's economic troubles at their local movie theaters, which debuted now-classic films, such as 'Mutiny on the Bounty,' 'Top Hat' and 'Night at the Opera,' '' Chief Justice Roberts wrote.
''Moviegoers of that era enjoyed a prelude of short features as they settled into their seats,'' he continued. ''As the lights dimmed, the screen beamed previews of coming attractions, Merrie Melody cartoons, and the Movietone newsreels of current events.''
Those current events included, though the chief justice did not say so, a clash between President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the Supreme Court over New Deal legislation that may foreshadow a similar conflict when lawsuits over the recent health care legislation reach the court.
Chief Justice Roberts did describe newsreels showing the new Supreme Court building, which opened that year. ''Seventy-five years later, the Supreme Court's majestic building stands out as a familiar and iconic monument to the rule of law,'' he wrote.
But he said nothing about the court's decision this year to close its front doors to people seeking to enter, for reasons of security.
That decision, in May, was criticized by Justices Stephen G. Breyer and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who said they hoped the day would come when it would be possible ''to restore the Supreme Court's main entrance as a symbol of dignified openness and meaningful access to equal justice under law.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); FILM (84%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



15 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Calls for Dialogue With the South

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea --- In an annual New Year's commentary that is widely seen as an indicator of the country's political and economic goals for the coming year, North Korea called Saturday for dialogue with South Korea and a relaxation of tensions ''as soon as possible.''
''If a war breaks out on this land, it will bring nothing but a nuclear holocaust,'' said the editorial, carried in the leading official newspapers in the North and read on state television there. The commentary, which called for ''an atmosphere of dialogue and cooperation'' with the South, was reported by local news agencies in Seoul. 
Relations between the Koreas in recent months have been at their most strained since the end of the Korean War in 1953. North Korea allegedly torpedoed a South Korean warship in March and later revealed the existence of a modern and previously unknown uranium-enrichment facility.
The situation worsened in November when the North fired artillery at a South Korean island in a skirmish that killed two South Korean marines and two civilians. That was followed by several large and provocative military exercises by the South, including joint maneuvers led by an American aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea.
The North Korean editorial called for an end to those military drills and assailed Seoul's alliance with the ''war hawks'' of the United States.
North Korea, with the world's fourth largest military, also cautioned that its armed forces remained on guard and would take ''prompt, merciless and annihilating action'' if necessary.
North Korea, China and Russia have called for a resumption of the six-party talks aimed at shuttering the North's nuclear programs, and South Korean President Lee Myung-bak, despite his administration's hardening line against the North, recently endorsed a return to the talks in 2011. The United States and Japan are the other members of the six-party process, which fell apart in 2009 when North Korea withdrew.
The North's commentary on Saturday said it has been ''consistent in its stand and will to achieve peace in Northeast Asia and denuclearization of the whole of the Korean peninsula.''
The editorial made no mention of the anticipated change in leadership, with Kim Jong-un, the youngest son of the ailing North Korean leader Kim Jong-il, expected to replace his father.
The editorial also reiterated the importance of 2012 to the North, the centenary of the birth of the country's founding president, Kim Il-sung, the father of Kim Jong-il. The regime's often-stated goal is to make North Korea ''a great and prosperous country'' by 2012.
''We should launch an all-out, vigorous offensive for a breakthrough to realize the wish of the President to build a prosperous country,'' said the commentary on Saturday. In North Korea, the term ''president'' has been reserved for Kim Il-sung, who died in 1994.
''Improving the economic management becomes more urgent at the moment, when the national economy is put on the trajectory of revitalization,'' the commentary said.
An economic transformation of the impoverished North, which has been hamstrung by international sanctions and has few major allies or trading partners other than China, seems unlikely, and perhaps worrisome. Politicians and analysts here are concerned that Pyongyang will use further diplomatic intrigues and its nuclear capabilities to force food aid and development concessions out of Seoul, Washington and others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (76%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



16 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BRAZIL'S NEW LEADER STARTS
In Shadow of Predecessor
When Dilma Rousseff assumes the presidency of Brazil, she will do so at a time when her country is thriving economically. But Ms. Rousseff, the first woman to be elected president of Latin America's biggest country, will have big shoes to fill, having to succeed the popular Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. PAGE A7
THAIS RELY ON SPIRIT WORLD 
Although Thailand has embraced modernity, many Thais will tell you that ghosts still wander the streets and inhabit buildings. Far from abandoning traditional beliefs in the paranormal, Thailand is harnessing the forces of technology to reinforce them. PAGE A4
TALIBAN LEADER KILLED
Coalition forces killed the top-ranking Taliban official in restive Kunduz Province during an overnight raid, according to Afghan police and a local governor. PAGE A6
UKRAINE TRANSFERS URANIUM
Ukraine has sent 110 pounds of highly enriched uranium, a significant portion of its Soviet-era stock, to Russia for disposal or storage. The material was moved by plane in December as part of an effort to reduce the chances that vulnerable nuclear material might be stolen. PAGE A6
National
ROBERTS SEEKS MORE
Judicial Confirmations
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. called on President Obama and the Senate to solve what he called ''the persistent problem of judicial vacancies.'' The plea, in the chief justice's year-end report on the federal judiciary, was an echo of one from his predecessor, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, regarding President Bill Clinton's judicial nominees. PAGE A11
MILLER ENDS FIGHT IN ELECTION
Joe Miller, a Republican, ended his legal fight over Alaska's United States Senate seat, conceding the race to Senator Lisa Murkowski, his bitter rival. Mr. Miller's decision, announced at a news conference in Anchorage, came one day after the state certified Ms. Murkowski as the winner. PAGE A11
New York
STOPPING IN THE BRONX
On the Way to a Better Life
For two years, a building in the Bronx has served as a small beachhead for refugees from Bhutan. But now they are on the move again. Out of the eight families who were living on University Avenue, four of the families have left for other states and most members of a fifth have moved to Albany. PAGE A12
Business
PAULSON FUND RALLIES
To Finish Year Strong
Two years after John A. Paulson pulled off one of the greatest trades in Wall Street history, with a winning bet against the overheated mortgage market, he has managed to salvage a poor year for his giant hedge fund with a remarkable come-from-behind showing. PAGE B1
Arts
MUSEUM WANTS TO RETURN
Objects, but There's a Hitch
The Brooklyn Museum is preparing to return about 4,500 pre-Columbian artifacts taken from Costa Rica roughly a century ago. Costa Rica had made no claim to the objects; the Brooklyn Museum simply decided that its closets were too full. But the National Museum of Costa Rica, which has accepted the offer, has yet to raise the $59,000 needed to pack and ship the first batch. PAGE C1
A UNIVERSE IN THE DETAILS
''Extravagant Display: Chinese Art in the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, presents ornate boxes, ceramic vases, and lavishly embroidered silk kimonos. To pore over these objects is to be repeatedly astounded by the level of design and technical achievement. A review by Ken Johnson. PAGE C1
Obituaries
DENIS DUTTON, 66
A distinguished philosopher, writer and digital-media guru, he founded Arts & Letters Daily, one of the first sites to exploit the Web as a vehicle for meaningful intellectual exchange. PAGE A14
ROGER MILLIKEN, 95
A South Carolina textile magnate, he was instrumental in building the state into a bastion of the Republican Party. PAGE A14
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); TALIBAN (74%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%); REFUGEES (50%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN ROBERTS (70%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); THAILAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UKRAINE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BHUTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



17 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's New Leader Starts In Shadow of Predecessor

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- When Dilma Rousseff assumes the presidency of Brazil on Saturday, she will do so at a time when her country is thriving economically and full of swagger, eager to flex more of its newfound wealth and influence at home and abroad.
But Ms. Rousseff, the first woman to be elected president of Latin America's biggest country, will have especially big shoes to fill, having to succeed the nation's most popular leader in history, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.
While Ms. Rousseff has been eager to show that she is not a political puppet of Mr. da Silva, analysts say the challenge before her is one that her predecessor managed fairly well: balancing an ambitious domestic agenda with securing Brazil's global position.
Since being elected in October, Ms. Rousseff has mostly reassured investors that she is not looking to steer the country further to the left than under Mr. da Silva, who faced those same concerns when he was elected in 2002, before he adopted a pragmatic approach. 
''As Lula's handpicked successor, Dilma will have to deal with high expectations for continued gains,'' said Michael Shifter, president of the policy research and advocacy group Inter-American Dialogue. ''Her appointments, decisions and comments to date have been reassuring for those who were nervous that she would be tempted to pursue a radically different course from Lula.''
While many expect her to mostly follow the economic course paved by Mr. da Silva, she has already signaled that she will adopt a tougher stance on some issues, including Iran, a subject that deeply divided Brazil and the United States last year.
On his final day in office, Mr. da Silva left his successor with a still brewing international dispute to grapple with. On Friday, Mr. da Silva decided not to extradite a former Italian guerrilla, Cesare Battisti, despite a decision by Brazil's Supreme Court in 2009 that he should be extradited to Italy on murder convictions in Italy from the 1970s.
''I consider this situation is anything but closed,'' Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy said in a statement on Friday.
Strong-willed and short-tempered, Ms. Rousseff, 63, is viewed as more of an ideologue than Mr. da Silva, for whom she worked as chief of staff. She favors more state control over industries, including Brazil's rapidly expanding oil sector. But she also has a reputation as a pragmatic deal maker.
She will have the support of two-thirds of Congress, and analysts see Mr. da Silva working behind the scenes with the leaders of the 10 parties that form her presidential coalition.
Ms. Rousseff filled about half of her 37-member cabinet with ministers already serving under Mr. da Silva, including Finance Minister Guido Mantega. She appointed some well-respected professionals for other key posts.
Ms. Rousseff takes over at a time when Brazil is still in the midst of a domestic consumption boom and has record-low unemployment of 5.7 percent. The economy is projected to grow by 4.5 percent in 2011.
She inherits a country that is in significantly better economic shape than the one Mr. da Silva took over in 2003. By expanding cash-transfer programs for the poor, subsidizing housing loans and raising the minimum wage, his government pulled more than 20 million people out of poverty. The middle class has grown by 29 million people since 2002.
The country, which received a record $30 billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund when it was close to economic collapse in 2002, now lends money to the I.M.F.
''When President Lula came to office, Brazil was a regional power with global ambitions,'' said Thomas A. Shannon Jr., the American ambassador to Brazil. ''Today, Brazil is an aspiring global power with regional interests and international responsibilities. That is a significant change from eight years ago.''
Global ambitions led Mr. da Silva and the departing foreign minister, Celso Amorim, to try to broker a compromise on Iran's nuclear program. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton discounted the deal that Brazil and Turkey had brokered as a ''ploy'' by Iran to delay sanctions, and friction worsened when Brazil voted against the sanctions sought by the United States at the United Nations Security Council.
Antoniode Aguiar Patriota, who served as ambassador to Washington under Mr. da Silva, will be charged as Ms. Rousseff's new foreign minister with rebuilding mutual trust between the countries, ''which was badly damaged by the Iranian episode,'' said Paulo Sotero, director of the Brazil Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Mr. Shannon said the countries had put the issue behind them. ''We got the resolution we wanted, and the Brazilians have committed themselves to implementing that resolution, so that's it,'' he said.
Still, Ms. Rousseff declined an invitation by President Obama to visit the White House before her inauguration, saying she was too occupied with forming her new government, but hoped to visit soon. Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to attend Saturday's inauguration in Brasilia.
Mr. Shannon said Ms. Rousseff's recent comments in The Washington Post were reassuring on the question of human rights, an area where the da Silva government drew criticism from Washington and which Ms. Rousseff feels deeply about, having been brutally tortured during Brazil's dictatorship.
She said in the Washington Post interview that Brazil's abstention in a recent United Nations vote condemning stoning as a method of execution was ''an error,'' and she signaled her misgivings, shared by many Brazilians, about Mr. da Silva's failed Iran mediation effort.
''She differentiated herself rapidly with respect to Iran,'' said Julia Sweig, director of the Global Brazil Initiative at the Council on Foreign Relations.
On the domestic front, Brazil faces significant challenges in infrastructure development, education and health, as well as with regulatory and tax barriers that are limiting high-end economic growth, analysts said. Ms. Rousseff has said her principal goal is to fight poverty, and she also will oversee the preparations for the 2014 World Cup and for the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janiero.
Mr. da Silva, the 65-year-old former metalworker with a fourth-grade education, leaves office with an approval rating of more than an 80 percent.
In his final days, Mr. da Silva sent some parting shots to the United States, saying American policies toward Latin America had changed ''little or not at all'' since Mr. Obama took office. And he seemed to express personal satisfaction about the American economic crisis. Mr. Shannon declined to comment on the statements.
Still, in his waning hours in office Mr. da Silva was able to inspire Brazilians in a way that Ms. Rousseff will be hard-pressed to duplicate. In his final nationally televised address last week, he underscored what many analysts see as his singular accomplishment.
''Today, all Brazilian men and women believe more in their country and themselves,'' he said. ''This is a shared victory for all of us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil with President-elect Dilma Rousseff at a holiday event last week in Sao Paulo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULO WHITAKER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (61%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); MURDER (50%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (93%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2011



18 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: The Great Unraveling

BYLINE: By RAYMOND ARSENAULT. 
Raymond Arsenault, currently a visiting scholar at the Florida State University Study Center in London, is the author of ''The Sound of Freedom: Marian Anderson, the Lincoln Memorial, and the Concert That Awakened America.''

 BODY:
DISINTEGRATION
The Splintering of Black America
By Eugene Robinson
254 pp. Doubleday. $24.95
When Henry Louis Gates Jr. told Sgt. James Crowley of the Cambridge police, ''You don't know who you're messing with,'' he was speaking truth to power, albeit in a manner more akin to arrogance than erudition. The big shock here, according to the Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Eugene Robinson, is not that a Harvard professor misused the subjective case (''who'' for ''whom'') and inelegantly ended a sentence with a preposition; it is, rather, that Gates belongs to an elite enclave beyond the sergeant's experience or imagination. Gates's life as an academic superstar places him among a select group of black Americans aptly labeled ''Transcendent'' by Robinson. Think of Oprah Winfrey, Beyonce, Kobe Bryant, Vernon Jordan and Richard Parsons, the retired chief executive of Time Warner.
These Transcendent men and women, Robinson tells us at the outset, live and work in a privileged world of wealth and power. Despite the color of their skin, they do not belong to the black community. 
Fair enough, but Robinson does not stop there. Over the next 200 pages, he demonstrates rather convincingly that no one belongs to the black community anymore. The race-based community that was a fixture of American life for generations -- the traditional locus of racial experience and solidarity, the idealized entity that many of us still refer to, indeed still cling to, as an institutional and social reality -- no longer exists. That, in a nutshell, is the thesis of this slim but powerful book.
During the past four decades, Robinson persuasively argues, black America has splintered into four subgroups: the Transcendent elite; the Mainstream middle class, which now accounts for a majority of black Americans; an Emergent community made up of mixed-race families and black immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean; and the Abandoned, a large and growing underclass concentrated in the inner cities and depressed pockets of the rural South.
Divided by economics and culture, these four groups have little in common and little reason to identify with one another. For better or for worse -- and Robinson offers strong evidence for both positive and negative effects -- the ethos of racial solidarity that served blacks well during the Jim Crow era and the civil rights struggles of the 1950s and '60s is gone. Thus, continued references to ''black leaders'' or the ''black agenda'' make no sense and serve only to obscure the complexities of race in a vast, multicultural nation.
What we need now, Robinson insists, is, first, an honest recognition that the four black Americas have different interests and competing claims and, second, an immediate and large response to the desperate and deteriorating situation among Abandoned blacks. Redressing their economic and social problems will require a reordering of priorities, including a class-based narrowing of affirmative action programs and an overall effort equivalent to a domestic Marshall Plan. Anything less, Robinson argues, will doom the Abandoned to permanent pathology and underclass status, while consigning the broader society to chronic insecurity and moral dereliction. Recalling W. E. B. Du Bois's dictum that ''the problem of the 20th century is the problem of the color line,'' Robinson warns that the problem of the 21st century ''is the problem of the Abandoned.''
This book is full of facts, figures and telling anecdotes related to the disintegration of black America, but its real power resides elsewhere. Sometimes writers tell us something familiar -- something that we already know, or that we should know -- but they do it in such a creative and cleareyed way and with such force that we begin to see things differently independent of any new information. This is exactly what Eugene Robinson has done in ''Disintegration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%)

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (53%); RICHARD D PARSONS (52%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

TITLE: Disintegration: The Splintering of Black America (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



19 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; WHY CRITICISM MATTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: The Intellectual at Play In the Wider World

BYLINE: By PANKAJ MISHRA. 
Pankaj Mishra is the author of the novel ''The Romantics'' and the nonfiction books ''An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World'' and ''Temptations of the West: How to Be Modern in India, Pakistan, Tibet and Beyond.'' A fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, he contributes essays and reviews to The New York Review of Books, The New Yorker, The Guardian of London, The London Review of Books and n+1.

 BODY:
I don't think of myself as a literary critic. I write about novels and short stories. But I am reluctant to describe what I do as ''literary criticism,'' as I like to move quickly beyond the literariness of a text -- whether narrative techniques or quality of prose -- and its aesthetic pleasures, to engage with the author's worldview, implied or otherwise, and his or her location in history (of nation-states and empires, as well as of literary forms).
This kind of reading came naturally to me in the new, very poor and relatively inchoate Asian society in which I grew up. When I first began to read literary fiction I could assume neither a clear backdrop of political and social stability, nor a confident knowledge of the world and assumptions of national power. Everything had to be figured out, and literature was the primary means of clarifying a bewilderingly large universe of meanings and contexts. 
Much of my self-education was assisted by American writers like Edmund Wilson, Dwight Macdonald, Lionel Trilling, F.W. Dupee and Irving Howe. Some of these were literary critics, but they were, above all, public intellectuals (a species whose irrelevance and powerlessness Alfred Kazin seems to be mourning -- rather more than the demise of a critical genre -- when he writes, ''We are rushing into our future so fast that no one can say who is making it, or what is being made; all we know is that we are not making it, and there is no one, no matter what his age is, who does not in his heart feel that events have been taken out of his hands'').
Coming of age during and after the progressive era, when intellectual argument and political activism promised to reshape America's future, these critics took it for granted that literature was among the main signs of the times, and subject to the inquiring gaze of history and politics.
In this presumption, they were supported not so much by the Marxian ideologues of the 1930s as by the great realist novelists, from Stendhal to Tolstoy and Mann, who could not have written their most mature works without grappling with the political and moral challenges of their day. Ideas possessed a real urgency for these writers. It helped, too, that their societies were in ferment; that the bourgeois class, to which most writers and readers of literary fiction belonged, was deeply involved or implicated in major socioeconomic conflicts; and that politics wasn't something elected politicians and unelected corporate elites settled among themselves.
Compared with their realist predecessors, most contemporary fiction writers in America and Britain appear to be cultivating their own gardens, on expansive plots given them by their powerful and affluent cultures. Not surprisingly, many writers in the West experienced the terror attacks of 9/11 as a profound challenge to their art and its underlying (and, in retrospect, quite strange) assumptions of security and stability in a conflict-ridden world.
Too many of today's writers -- the creative writing graduates, the beneficiaries of generous advances and foundation grants, and the habitues of literary festivals in exotic locations -- are enlisted too quickly into society's privileged classes to remain, convincingly or for long, society's critics.
Literary criticism, in its recent American incarnation at least, has faithfully reflected the general writerly retreat from the public sphere, turning into a private language devised to yield a particular knowledge about a self-contained realm of elegant consumption. It is hard to imagine recent American literature provoking a critical response in the way of Kazin's magnificent study ''On Native Grounds'' (1942), which sensitively recorded the evolution of many literary sensibilities against a prewar backdrop of continuous crisis and struggle.
So I can recognize, and even feel the poignant anguish, of Kazin's sense of an ending, his feeling that ''the great confidence that man could understand his time and build from it, the feeling that provides the energy of modern art, has gone out of us.'' But I cannot share it, since literary criticism, as Kazin defines it, began to die off some time ago. (And I am not even speaking here of the cloud-cuckoo-land of literary theory and its weird cults of academic technicism and tenured ideologues.)
The critic who, in Kazin's words, ''sees himself working toward the future that man must build for himself'' has long been a dodo; his or her reappearance today might simply excite derision among a postpolitical generation accustomed to seeing all talk of building futures as a form of deception.
The widespread belief Kazin blames for the irrelevance of criticism -- ''that literature cannot affect our future, that the future is in other hands'' -- of course took hold in cold-war America. This is not the place to go into the all-encompassing political and cultural changes that occurred then, or to account for the ''pervasive feeling'' expressed by Kazin that ''our freedom is being taken away from us.'' But it may be worth briefly reflecting on the astonishing speed with which the radical ideas and impulses of pre-World War II America vanished from public life, with only traces lingering in some academic outposts and isolated sensibilities like Edmund Wilson's.
There is little point in blaming ''New Criticism,'' which fetishized the uniqueness and autonomy of literary works, or in lashing, yet again, the dead horse of creative writing departments, which prescribe an antihistorical formalism while turning a noble vocation into yet another moneymaking opportunity. For these practices are merely symptoms of a larger phenomenon that, deepening through the cold war, is only more manifest now: mass depoliticization as political and economic arrangements seem depressingly unalterable.
''In our political as in our economic lives,'' Tony Judt wrote in ''Ill Fares the Land,'' a lament for moral idealism and engaged citizenship, ''we have become consumers.'' A similar docility marks our cultural choices. Most writers as well as readers of literary fiction see it as a refined form of entertainment or instruction.
Deprived of a whole vocabulary of moral concern, which traditionally enlisted it into a humanistic culture, literary criticism was always destined to turn into a kind of competitive connoisseurship -- a parlor game for the increasingly professional producers as well as the passive consumers of literature. It can have its intelligent pleasures; but, determinedly asocial, it is far from bringing, as Kazin wanted it to, a ''historical sense of what has been, what is now, what must be'' into ''the immediate confrontation and analysis of works of art.''
The previous decade of severe political and economic shocks may end up opening literary criticism and literature to the questions Kazin and his peers asked of them. But then ours is also a much bigger and more various world than the one Kazin knew. We have easy access to knowledge of societies and cultures about which we were previously ignorant; and there is no reason to assume that writing from Europe and America is all that matters, or should matter, to a critic today.
Literatures elsewhere still offer a capacious mode of intellectual inquiry, one that can seamlessly accommodate the insights into human lives offered by history, philosophy and ethnography. To examine the work of Lu Xun, China's foremost modern writer, is to be taken through his anguish deep into Chinese self-perceptions, from the long Confucian past to the weirdly hybrid capitalist-Communist present. It is to understand not only his experiments with many different aesthetic forms and genres, but also his country's tormented recent history, not to mention the implications these developments hold for the rest of the world.
Indeed, the specific historical circumstances that confine the critical reception of literatures in Europe and America to a few specialists do not exist anywhere else. Societies in Asia and Latin America are far from politically static or jaded; the conflicts, exuberance and vulgarity of 19th-century Europe and America have reappeared there in magnified form, and an inquisitive writer-critic can only revel in them.
Both Liu Xiaobo, the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize winner from China, who is a literary critic by profession, and Mario Vargas Llosa, the literature laureate from Peru, testify to the impossibility of considering aesthetic matters in isolation from social and political movements. They confirm that a writer's individual self-awareness is always historically determined, and that one cannot assess a writer's work without examining her particular quarrel with the world, the rage or discontent that took her to writing in the first place.
A concentration on personal style alone may also reveal the richness or banality of a writer's imagination. But the line of inquiry that connects a writer to her world runs through quirks of individual personality and literary manner to broaden into larger moral and political issues. The critic who follows this method, staying close to the texture of social history as well as to aesthetic experience, is likely to avoid the intellectual isolation and self-pity of the kind Kazin describes.
Certainly the critic's curiosity, endlessly ramifying, will keep him very busy -- and gratified. For as Edmund Wilson, a compulsive learner of new things, once put it:
''The experience of mankind on the earth is always changing as man develops and has to deal with new combinations of elements; and the writer who is to be anything more than an echo of his predecessors must always find expression for something which has never yet been expressed, must master a new set of phenomena. ... With each such victory of the human intellect, whether in history, in philosophy or in poetry, we experience a deep satisfaction: we have been cured of some ache of disorder, relieved of some oppressive burden of uncomprehended events.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAYA MISHRA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (92%); LITERARY CRITICISM (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (88%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



20 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; WHY CRITICISM MATTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Critic As Cultural Arbiter

BYLINE: By STEPHEN BURN


HIGHLIGHT: Stephen Burn is the author of ''David Foster Wallace's 'Infinite Jest': A Reader's Guide'' and ''Jonathan Franzen at the End of Postmodernism,'' and an editor of ''Intersections: Essays on Richard Powers.'' An associate professor at Northern Michigan University, he has written for The Paris Review, The Yale Review and The Times Literary Supplement, among other publications. He is writing a book about the novel in the age of neuroscience and is editing a volume of David Foster Wallace's letters about literature.

 BODY:
Fifty years is a long time in any national literature, but in the extreme environment of American culture, fiction seems to find an incubator for unusually rapid growth. A half-century takes us from the era of formulaic romances and Gothic novels to the metaphysical theater of ''Moby-Dick''; from Mark Twain working on his autobiography to John Barth's first novel. Yet across the 50 years since Alfred Kazin lectured about the function of the critic, academic literary criticism in America has arguably changed more than the modern novel, while the kind of critic that preoccupied Kazin -- one who writes for the public, ''lives in literature'' and tries to create standards -- now finds her function revised by technological changes that have reconfigured an audience that was once atomized by America's urban sprawl. 
''In the lonely pockets of towns and cities,'' Don DeLillo wrote in the early 1980s, ''a thousand minds tick.'' A decade or so later the commercialization of the Internet wove a network out of those minds, building a kind of massive neural web, a brain by turns conflicted, noisy, urgent. The Internet calls people out of their loneliness to create electronic selves perhaps more naked or strident than the fuzzy, compromised ''I'' that moves ghostlike through its everyday routines and disagreements. A solitary reader, brooding over an obscure contemporary novel, or slowly puzzling out a page of ''Finnegans Wake,'' is suddenly not so solitary. Amid the network of networks there is always another reader, an improvised community into which she can merge and make visible her invented self.
Seated on the cusp of the network revolution, the critic Sven Birkerts cataloged the losses that a reader in the electronic millennium would suffer: divorce from historical consciousness, a fragmented sense of time, a loss of deep concentration. From the other side of the divide, the ability to locate a cluster of like-minded people must seem a real gain to the reader who finds isolation uncomfortable rather than one of reading's fertile preconditions. Yet, however the economy of costs and benefits is calculated, the change in the technology that organizes the audience changes the rest of the writing world. Some writers may try to seal themselves off from the crackling energy of the Web, but the contemporary novel's form is always a model of the way our minds work, and it registers the deep changes in the ways we process data. Even more markedly than in the late 20th century, the serious contemporary novel withdraws from linearity, its narrative particles grouped into weblike clusters connected implicitly rather than explicitly, and its focus distributed across several characters. For the critic, these technological changes create deep historical echoes. If in earlier centuries the common reader was for Johnson and Woolf at least partly a rhetorical construction, an imagined nonspecialist that enabled their own work, for the critic at the millennium the audience for literature is not so shadowy. While Kazin could complain in 1960 that ''the audience doesn't know what it wants,'' with the advent of Amazon reviews and other rating sites the audience is abundantly vocal. A sensitive membrane has evolved from the historical transactions between author, critic and reader. Though online reviews inevitably vary in quality and insight, their very existence no longer makes it possible to imagine that there is not an engaged general-interest audience out there consuming and thinking about literary works. The audience now talks to itself.
The critic may not know who these readers are, but their existence seems indisputable, and the crystallization of the common reader changes the function of criticism in precise ways. The age of evaluation, of the Olympian critic as cultural arbiter, is over. While there are still critics out there, often at prominent publications, who like to issue dogmatic rulings (''The novel exists to ----------!'') and to chastise writers, their nostalgic efforts merely add to the noise of culture. Opinion in a distributed culture is abundantly, excessively, available, and as electronic self-construction accelerates the transformation of the private interior landscape into a Facebook page for public approval, personality becomes a debased currency. Less than six weeks after Jonathan Franzen's ''Freedom'' was published, Amazon offered more than 300 frankly polarized customer reviews. Thinking of reading Toni Morrison's ''Beloved''? Nearly 700 readers have an opinion they'd like to share with you. The electronic footprint of earlier readers and their opinions exerts its tyranny on the solitary transaction between book and reader, and so in mainstream reviewing it's time to hear less of critics talking about themselves, spinning reviews out of their charming memories or using the book under review as little more than a platform to promote themselves and their agendas. The critic ought to be an obscure, marginal figure, but I suspect that the tendency to overpersonalize a review stems from a sense among reviewers that part of their job has been usurped by the muddy aggregate of opinion that is everywhere available on a laptop somewhere near you.
The loss of a more centralized, univocal criticism is not necessarily a bad thing. Surely most readers (and probably a few authors) have seen reviews by prominent critics whose work is notoriously poisoned by personal prejudice, and guessed what pre-established verdict would be delivered to the work under review. Equally, I expect I'd have more confidence in the best nonspecialist readers than I do in some of their professional counterparts. In my short academic career I've been surprised, for instance, to discover professors of English who have lost interest in literature in favor of pursuing institutional power in the shape of administrative positions. And while the removal -- or more accurately, the redistribution -- of the evaluative task is likely to dilute critical standards, it can also free up the critic to engage in more serious tasks that might bleed back into the culture, providing a stronger skeleton for a range of literary activity. The critic who reviews contemporary novels now might valuably turn her attention to different kinds of vertical or horizontal mapping. By vertical mapping, I mean that larger frames than the personal might be brought to bear in reviews, with more effort taken to think of genres within less narrow, rigid borders. I sometimes fear that a narrow artistic palette can be mistaken for critical standards, and I believe it's past time to dispense with prejudices about character, emotivity and realism that hardened during the 19th century: a strongly realist character-based novel isn't a bad thing, but it isn't the only thing. A contemporary novel offers an opportunity to measure fiction's mutating forms -- to note, perhaps, the dominance of time as a thematic obsession in works of the last 20 years, or the emergence of the family epic, with its generational conflicts, as it becomes perhaps the signature subgenre of the American novel today. Equally, critics might overhaul their sense of a static literary past and think instead of the novel actively engaging with its forebears. By this I don't mean the small-scale connect-the-dots vision of T.S. Eliot, where a new work is related to a limited group of masterworks, but rather a much longer, more inclusive vision that might take as its model Steven Moore's recent encyclopedic study, ''The Novel: An Alternative History,'' which dramatically amplifies our understanding of what the novel can and cannot do, and highlights living currents that sprang into existence 40 centuries ago and continue to flow into the contemporary novel.
Alongside this vertical effort to ascertain where a work fits into the contemporary and historical field, a review can also be a horizontal map that moves from the standard direct quotation (be sure to let the reader ''get his own taste'' of a text, Updike warned critics in 1975) to an analysis of the hidden springs that govern the shape of the novel's sentences, or to an effort to establish a dialogue with the intellectual currents in other disciplines that have informed or challenged the work under review. In some cases, this horizontal mapping may require deeper research, or a closer sense of what novelists believe they're doing. Though a novelist's stated intentions shouldn't override a critic's internal barometer, it's nonetheless disappointing that there are probably fewer print publications where a book critic might interview contemporary authors than there were even 30 years ago, when Tom LeClair and Larry McCaffery released their landmark interview collection, ''Anything Can Happen'' (1983).
Good criticism, with ideas rather than prejudices, has always performed this kind of mapping and has found, as Kazin argued, the work to be its own reward. The culture is what it is -- messy and multi-valent, open to a certain range of entertainments and cultural expressions -- and the critic's yearning to dominate a larger audience is an index of the extent to which he or she finds the critical task insufficient in itself. Stepping aside from the culture of opinion, delving deeper into open-minded analysis, critics might fulfill their most important function: locating major works that are not always visible in mainstream networks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE BURN) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEONARDO SONNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



21 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Debutante Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Titans in Party Dresses'' (Dec. 26, 2010): Hadley Nagel is clearly gifted and ambitious. But while your article was unerringly specific in regard to superficial interests (for example, her wardrobe, which includes a Madame Vionnet gown, Chanel handbag and many pairs of Manolo Blahnik and Jimmy Choo pumps), the reader was left to puzzle about the reasons for her purportedly passionate interest in James Madison and foreign relations. The unfortunate effect was to paint Ms. Nagel as a dilettante. 
Clinton J. Guthrie
Bronx, N.Y.
To the Editor:
Your article claims that just like the father of our Constitution, James Madison, Hadley Nagel deserves recognition. And the article seems to unquestioningly celebrate her many accomplishments. But at a time when Americans struggle to deal with the continuing repercussions of the 2008 financial crisis (a result of rampant, continual deregulation that enabled a tiny percentage of Americans to gain unprecedented levels of affluence), I think that this article serves to simply perpetuate the idea that the lifestyles of those who have benefited from this inequity are in some way justified. There are many young Americans who would cherish just one of the hundreds of opportunities Hadley has had (perhaps a full ride to Johns Hopkins would be more beneficial to someone with real financial need). Cleo Hirsch
Boston
The writer is a junior at Tufts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



22 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Around the World In 12 Months: South Africa Breaks Even

 BODY:
Cape Town
Back in Cape Town, I find the city as I remember it: gorgeous and frustrating, a glittering center and quaint suburbs hugging Table Mountain and uneasily overlooking the expanse called the Cape Flats, where I grew up among the city's black poor and working class. 
Yes, a graceful new stadium downtown greets soccer fans. And in a city where most soccer fans are black, and the downtown is still very much the province of whites and tourists, that's something. But the World Cup, held in nine South African cities in June, is definitely over.
The expectations -- and the fears -- were huge: boosters saw the World Cup as South Africa's entree to the developed world and to economic growth, while naysayers fretted that the tournament should be moved to Australia, that 40,000 prostitutes would flood the country, and that fans would be gunned down in daylight.
Nothing so remarkable happened, for good or bad. Yes, tourism may have blunted some effects of the global downturn, but not a lot. Yes, there was crime, but as the British newspaper The Guardian put it: ''No one died. No one was stabbed, no one was kidnapped and no one took a wrong turn into the clutches of a gang of garrotters.''
In the end, though, soccer is about the beautiful game, a glorious moment. And we had ours.
I brought my American-born 4-year-old, Rosa, to experience South Africa's moment, and wasn't disappointed. Astonishingly, mixed crowds walked central Cape Town's streets after dark and squeezed on to the (much improved, for the occasion) trains and buses. This is unheard of in a place where crime, or the fear of crime, conspires with an urban geography shaped by apartheid to ensure that public spaces are scarce, often empty and mostly segregated.
On opening day, South Africa scored the most spectacular goal of the tournament. And Ghana's improbable march to the quaterfinals prompted a country still vulnerable to xenophobic violence to unite behind the Black Stars. At fan parks, Rosa, decked out in the colors of our flag, proudly announced in her American accent that she was ''from South Africa.''
Today, the inescapable, droning vuvuzelas have been put away, South African soccer is as badly organized as ever, plans to improve public transport are in limbo again and fans have turned their attention to rugby and cricket, sports that our teams have a better chance of dominating.
But it is a testament to the hosts that Rosa still insists South Africa won the World Cup -- not Spain.
-- SEAN JACOBS, assistant professor of international affairs at the New School in Manhattan and founder of the blog Africa is a Country

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KATE O'CONNOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); SHOOTINGS (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); TRAINS (63%); GEOGRAPHY (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (79%); SPAIN (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



23 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: The Family That Frays Together

BYLINE: By MARGY ROCHLIN

 BODY:
Burbank, Calif.
BACK in October, on the Warner Brothers studio lot here, a group of actors rehearsed a scene for ''Shameless,'' the latest series from John Wells, the celebrated show runner of ''ER,'' ''Third Watch'' and the later years of ''The West Wing.''
On the dilapidated living room set belonging to the fictional and often out-of-control Gallagher family, an illiterate bartender named Kev (Steve Howey) barged through the front door. It was the morning after Kev's bachelor party, there was rude, black-marker graffiti all over his face, and he was looking for his fiancee, whom he found in the Gallagher living room dressed only in a skimpy bra and panties. In other words, the day's activity is a culmination of one of Mr. Wells's long-held wishes: to make a television show where familial love, juicy cursing, casual sex and drug use, bluntly put humor, mega-alcohol bingeing and total chaos reign. 
''Shameless'' is adapted from a long-running award-winning British television drama of the same name. Mr. Wells optioned the American rights to it before the first episode was even broadcast six years ago. Transported from a bleak industrial city in northern England to working-class Chicago, the ''Shameless'' beginning on Showtime next Sunday still relays the exploits of the Gallagher family, six children without a mother (she went out for a loaf of bread and never returned), a ranting boozer for a father (played with abandon by William H. Macy) and a household that is running in survival mode.
The honking Mancunian accents are gone, but nearly everything else in the pilot has been left intact, including the jolting first entrance of Mr. Macy's Frank, who, drunk and incontinent, is gingerly carried into his home by two policemen and deposited on the floor. (''I wouldn't put him anywhere near a carpet until his pants dry,'' one officer suggests helpfully.)
Paul Abbott, who created the semiautobiographical British ''Shameless,'' helped write the pilot episode of the new ''Shameless'' and is credited as executive producer, said the country the Gallaghers live in may be different, but the glue that holds them together -- their steadfast affection for one another -- hasn't changed. ''Somehow all the resonances from the original series occur in the remake, but in a different vocabulary,'' Mr. Abbott said.
Seeking to explain how the series compares to other American shows about low-income families, he added: ''It's not 'My Name Is Earl' or 'Roseanne.' It's got a much graver level of poverty attached to it. It's not blue collar; it's no collar.''
But David Nevins, president of Showtime, said that what appeals to him about the series isn't how it deals with the Gallaghers' finances but the turmoil created by Frank's drinking. ''It shows a family functioning under pretty extreme circumstances,'' Mr. Nevins said. ''It's less about the working class nature of the show and more about how it stares alcoholism in the face.''
During Mr. Wells's long journey to bring ''Shameless'' to America, he often found himself defending the idea that there was an audience for a funny-sad series about six cash-strapped, coupon-clipping youngsters who believe that being poor together is better than living comfortable yet separated lives with different foster parents. And he found that network executives had to be shaken from stereotypes.
''When we first started pitching, everybody kept gravitating towards the South or putting it in a trailer park, and I kept saying, 'Well, no,' '' Mr. Wells said, sitting in a conference room in his Warner Brothers studio office suite, a five-minute walk from the ''Shameless'' soundstage. ''We have a comedic tradition of making fun of the people in those worlds. The reality is that these people aren't 'the other' -- they're people who live four blocks down from you and two blocks over.''
Mr. Wells, the son of an Episcopal minister and a schoolteacher, might have been raised in Denver, not a rough-and-tumble segment of Chicago, but he said has no trouble relating to growing up in a falling-down home. ''My family, we built a lot of the houses we lived in,'' Mr. Wells said, explaining that the four of them -- Mr. Wells's sister was also part of their crew -- picked up construction skills as they went along. ''The later houses were ones I'd much prefer to live in than the first ones.''
He got his bachelor's degree from the Carnegie-Mellon School of Drama in Pittsburgh, and received his master's in film and television at the University of Southern California in 1983, supporting himself by working as a carpenter on the side. A few years later he landed a writing gig on ''China Beach,'' the television drama set on an American base during the Vietnam War, and he retired his tool belt for good.
The outrageousness in ''Shameless'' can be seen as a departure for Mr. Wells, whose name is associated with classically dramatic, workplace-oriented television fare. But ''Shameless'' does tap into one of Mr. Wells's specialties. ''I am completely fascinated by family,'' he said, pointing out that ''ER,'' ''China Beach'' and ''The West Wing'' were shows as much about the bond created by professional attachments as they were about the professions themselves. (Mr. Wells's recent feature writing-directing debut, ''The Company Men,'' about three wealthy executives coping with sudden downsizing, could be seen as the flip side of ''Shameless'' and its perpetual economic strugglers.)
That said, when Mr. Wells began assembling his six-member ''Shameless'' writing staff, he gravitated toward comedy writers who were, as he put it, ''really damaged people.'' ''I don't want to give specifics, but one of the writers' father disappeared really early on and mother had a lot of mental illness to deal with,'' he said. ''Another writer comes from real serious, deep, 'What are we eating tonight?' poverty.''
In the end, though, ''Shameless'' is just like any other series Mr. Wells has worked on: the cast of characters become so familiar to him that they occupy his thoughts in his waking hours as well as when he's sleeping. ''I've had a couple of 'Shameless' dreams,'' Mr. Wells said.
''Emmy Rossum is there and so is Justin Chatwin, but we're in Pittsburgh and it's 1984,'' Mr. Wells added, laughing, referring to two of his cast members. ''I think they're all mixed up with what I was doing in my 20s.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William H. Macy, right, plays an alcoholic father of six in Chicago, in ''Shameless.'' Below, some of the children, played by, from left, Jeremy White, Emmy Rossum and Emma Kenney. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); FAMILY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%)

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS STUDIO STORES INTERNATIONAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (70%)

TITLE: Shameless (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



24 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; CRITICS' PICKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Critics' Picks for the Year: Hot Cars in a Cool Economy

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
1. FERRARI 458 ITALIA The world's best sports car, a racing video game come to life in three gorgeous, thrilling dimensions. This is the car I would buy tomorrow if I inherited $250,000 today.
2. JAGUAR XJ In one swoop, this flagship sedan has been transformed from Prince Charles (stiff, conservative, tradition-bound) into David Beckham (athletic, fashionable, devilishly handsome). The XJ, especially in its supercharged versions, is not only the lightest and fastest of the big luxury sedans, but it is the most cheeky and vital.
3. CHEVROLET VOLT Let me get this straight: General Motors, after being criticized for (supposedly) killing the electric car and for lagging Toyota in green technology, develops a plug-in hybrid that outdrives the Prius and returns better overall economy than any other new hybrid or clean diesel. And G.M. is excoriated for doing so, not just by the likes of Rush Limbaugh, but by some greenniks. G.M. just can't win. 
4. PORSCHE BOXSTER SPYDER Among sports cars, the Boxster is like the golden retriever at your feet: Loyal and eager to please, but so old and familiar that you trip right over it. The Boxster Spyder solves that as a lightened-and-toned version that reminds you that this midengine stalwart is one of the sweetest performers around -- and the world's best-handling sports car to boot, according to Car and Driver magazine. The only drawback is its contraption of a manual top: it looks and fits great, but takes several minutes to put down or up, making the Spyder suspect as a daily driver.
5. AUDI A8 By the high-flying standards of Audi design, the tranquil exterior is a letdown. But all is forgiven when you jump into the A8 and drive. The cabin blends near-bespoke luxury with intuitive technology to set the new interior benchmark for large luxury sedans. And the Audi is an amazingly versatile dance partner, able to waltz, tango or mosh, depending on its driver's mood.
6. HYUNDAI SONATA Never thought I'd say it, but if I were buying a straight-up family sedan I'd take the Sonata over Honda's Accord, the perennial front-runner. Consumers have noticed, handing the handsome Sonata -- in regular, turbo and hybrid versions -- the year's biggest jump in unit sales -- up roughly 90,000 -- of any car in America.
7. NISSAN JUKE When I first saw the Juke at an auto show, I didn't know whether to chuckle or upchuck. But this moon buggy turns out to be the year's most unexpected success, a tall hatchback with more muscle and spirit than the youth-centric crossovers from Scion, Kia and others. A 188-horsepower direct-injection turbo 4, available 6-speed manual transmission, torque-vectoring all-wheel drive and a winning interior filled with cool details, all for around $25,000. What's not to like?
8. FORD EXPLORER The name sounds like a nostalgic holdover from a VH1 show. But this is the new Explorer, and all I can say is, Welcome back. Aside from the lack of a honking V-8, you won't notice much difference in dynamic on-road handling, quietness and comfort between this Ford and much more expensive S.U.V.'s like the Land Rover LR4 or Mercedes GL-Class. It's that good.
9. VOLVO S60 Another pleasant surprise, this sedan reminds me of the XC60 crossover, subtly amassing virtues until it's impossible to ignore. For those who aren't already set on a BMW 3 Series, Mercedes C-Class or Infiniti G37, the S60 is a striking alternative and the most fun-to-drive Volvo yet.
10. LOTUS EVORA Driving enthusiasts often profess love for the nano-scale Lotus Elise or Exige, but few show their love by buying such a track-focused toy. The midengine Evora makes just enough compromises to be accommodating -- it's larger, heavier and more deluxe, with a roomier 2-plus-2 layout -- but it still feels exotic, adventurous and every bit a Lotus.
When S.U.V.'s Are Parodies
DESIGNER IMPOSTOR Sure, it's a relative bargain, it comes with a free iPad and the Hyundai dealer will fetch the car for service while dropping off a loaner. That's all great, but if I'm going to drop $60,000 on a Hyundai, there's only one real issue: is it really a stand-in for flagships like the Mercedes S-Class or Audi A8, or even the smaller BMW 5 Series? The Equus does not even come close. Dated and dowdy on the outside, a pale imitation of Lexus on the inside, it doesn't drive or satisfy like the real McCoys.
FREE WILLY By the standards of full-size luxury S.U.V.'s, the redesigned Infiniti QX56 blows away the last version. But who at Infiniti approved the swollen shape, Beluga-whale grille and excessive bling? The QX is so obliviously unfashionable it should come with a trucker hat.
ROCKY TERRAIN Another S.U.V. that didn't get the memo about changing tastes, the GMC Terrain is a parody pile-up of every Hummer-inspired styling theme to emerge from G.M.'s studios: tacky chrome rims, steroid-pumped sheet metal and an overwhelming air of half-bakedness, from its straining engines to its sloppy transmission.
WHAT A HAM For the Kia Soul, the return of the hip-hop hamsters was the year's most watchable car ad. (I especially enjoyed the rodent cheerleaders, the Hamsterdam Avenue street sign and the stoned-looking drummer.) Best of all, the funky Soul is as endearing as its ad campaign.
THE HEARTBEAT HAS FLATLINED The worst car-company slogan of the year, perhaps among the worst ever: Chevy Runs Deep. What, like a submarine? A tunneling gopher? A wide receiver? By the time you figure out what Chevy's talking about, the message (and your brain) are vaporized.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Ferrari 458 Italia (above) 2. Jaguar XJ 3. Chevrolet Volt 4. Porsche Boxster Spyder 5. Audi A8 6. Hyundai Sonata 7. Nissan Juke 8. Ford Explorer 9. Volvo S60 10. Lotus Evora (AU1)
 Kia's hip-hop rodents hammed it up in a memorable commercial. (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SPORTS CARS (91%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); DOGS (73%); DANCERS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: RUSH LIMBAUGH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



25 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Straddling Worlds of Performance

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
APAP: for many a New York choreographer, there's no more frightening sequence of letters in the English language. Pronounced A-pap and used as shorthand for the Association of Performing Arts Presenters' annual winter conference starting Friday, it's a chaotic gantlet of showcases and networking, spread over a very long weekend. The goal is to get your performance booked outside New York. The more typical result is exhaustion, resentment and ruined nerves -- especially for those artists whose boundary-pushing work doesn't mesh with artistic directors' looking for easy box office sells.
''It's a great big meat market,'' said Brian Rogers, a dance and video artist who is the artistic director of the Chocolate Factory theater in Queens. ''It's this combination of anxiety and shame: you get all worked up, and at the end of the day nothing comes out of it.'' 
Some contemporary choreographers have even hosted anti-APAP evenings, protesting the few opportunities available to them (independent festivals like Performance Space 122's COIL, while theater-oriented, do offer some dance). And then, last year, American Realness showed up. This upstart festival, which made a case for the cultural importance of dance and performance work often dismissed as marginal (if it's even discussed), was started not by a theater or consortium of industry insiders, but by a lone 28-year-old dynamo, armed with only a laptop, gamine good looks and seemingly inexhaustible energy reserves: Thomas Benjamin Snapp Pryor.
''It's just me and this computer and the world,'' Mr. Pryor said, speaking from a small office in the Abrons Arts Center, where a residency enables him to use this Lower East Side theater as something of a base. ''I have no budget. This festival is being produced by me and the artists. It's a big, big puzzle.''
But this puzzle is making waves. Crucial national and European presenters flocked to it last year, and Artforum.com's editor David Velasco included it on his ''best dance of 2010'' list. On Thursday, American Realness returns to Abrons, with an expanded roster of 15 works over five days. The lineup features some of the brightest and most provocative lights on New York's contemporary scene, including Kyle Abraham, Luciana Achugar, Miguel Gutierrez, Trajal Harrell and Ann Liv Young.
The idea for a festival began brewing in 2007, Mr. Pryor said, adding that he couldn't understand why there was no fully produced contemporary dance equivalent to Mark Russell's Under the Radar theater smorgasbord, held in January. ''For me this was a gaping hole,'' he said. ''DTW, Danspace, get it together.'' he continued, referring to Dance Theater Workshop and Danspace Project. ''You're presenters and you're just going to do showings? You know how ineffectual that is.''
Mr. Pryor is a keen and experienced observer of what is and isn't effective in his field. Before establishing his one-man management venture, tbspMGMT, in 2009, he worked in the Brooklyn Academy of Music's planning and development department, directed operations at the Center for Performance Research theater and rehearsal site, and was an artist representative at the arts service organization Pentacle, where he tried unsuccessfully to lure many of the artists he works with now.
One of these was Ms. Achugar, who likened her relationship with Mr. Pryor to that of a painter and gallerist. The yearly retainer required by a firm like Pentacle, she added, was simply unrealistic for choreographers like herself, who have unpredictable finances and no set company structure, and work project to project.
''I'm doing everything on my own,'' she said. ''It makes a lot of sense for me to work with someone like Ben who is passionate about the field, invested really deeply in it ideologically, and knows presenters nationally and internationally.''
This ideological investment is writ large across American Realness, whose name refers to a slang term for drag queens, transgendered people and others who can pass as the opposite sex, and was prompted in part by a Huffington Postarticle by the president of the Kennedy Center, Michael M. Kaiser. Titled ''Why I Worry About Modern Dance,'' it waxed nostalgic and asked, ''Where is the current, not to mention next, generation of great modern dance companies to carry the torch?''
Mr. Pryor, like many of his colleagues, was infuriated by the essay and set out to prove that the current generation had already carried the torch into new territory. His press materials quoted Mr. Kaiser and explained that the festival's goal was no less than ''to debunk stilted perceptions of American dance and give way to a new notion of contemporary performance.''
The centerpiece of the 2010 festival was ''Last Meadow,'' by Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Pryor's main client. Though Mr. Gutierrez already had considerable career traction on his own, he credits American Realness with leading directly to a series of European engagements and describes his relationship with Mr. Pryor, who tours with him, as an intimate, intense collaboration.
''It's me and Ben on Skype, being like, 'How are we going to do this?' '' he said, laughing. ''I need someone who cannot only administer this stuff but have a vision about how it can happen. And that is Ben. Unquestionably.''
If the path Mr. Pryor is traveling has a trailblazer, it is Barbara Bryan, the executive director of the progressive performance laboratory Movement Research. Ten years ago she created management models for choreographers like Sarah Michelson, Wally Cardona and John Jasperse, helping them rise to the top of their field.
''The generation he's working with has even less infrastructure support,'' Ms. Bryan said, describing that as ''staggering'' to contemplate. ''I think of Ben as really a key person and probably at the top of the field in terms of the strong representation for a particular generation, but also a particular aesthetic and way of working -- artists who really are pushing the boundaries of performance.''
Like many of the artists he is most drawn to, Mr. Pryor has an attachment to working outside established support structures, or blazing his own way through them, that is both quixotic and (given current economic realities) practical.
''There's something about that freedom,'' Mr. Pryor said, his eyes glowing with a certain frazzled zeal. ''It's also crazy, because it's just me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Benjamin Snapp Pryor, the brain behind American Realness. ''For me this was a gaping hole,'' he said of the need for a dance equivalent of the Under the Radar theater festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Some of the dancers in the American Realness festival: above left, Keith Hennessy, in ''Crotch,''
above, Joey Cannizzaro, foreground, with Niall Noell, left, and Felix Cruz in ''Them.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YI-CHUN WU
 IAN DOUGLAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE (89%); FILM (77%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



26 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Is Coming: A Primer on the Session

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column
Texas alternates election years with governing years, with legislative sessions set in the odd-numbered years after voters choose their leaders. There are variations, but it's got a rhythm to it: Choose them, watch them govern, choose, watch. The elections are behind us (and ahead), and it's time to see what this particular bunch will do in office.
Will the legislative session starting Jan. 11 really be all that different? Most soothsayers and gray-hairs in Austin think it's going to be a bloody mess. If this were an ancient mariner's map, it would have scary drawings around the treacherous state budget, the fearsome beastie called redistricting and the dangerous marshes of voter ID, border control and anchor babies. States' rights and the 10th Amendment would be over in Uncharted Territory. 
But they'll be gone by June, right? Right? The Texas Legislature meets every two years, for no longer than 140 days. It can also meet any other time -- usually at the behest of the governor -- to consider emergency legislation or unfinished business or, really, anything. Redistricting and the budget are often the triggers. In 2003, when Congressional redistricting was last confronted, lawmakers came back in late June and stayed into August, then came back again in September. In 1991, when redistricting and a budget crisis were served up, lawmakers returned in August for the first of several special sessions.
Why is everyone in Texas politics already talking about 2012? Gov. Rick Perry says he's not running for president, and he has been saying it to audiences all over the country on his recent book tour. He is becoming a national figure -- talk among yourselves about what he's up to. That's what lawmakers are doing, as are state Republican officeholders who like the people at the top but wish they would move and create some opportunities for others. The guessing game over Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison's plans is under way again, mulling the possibility of a plum job opening. This national stuff happened before, when George W. Bush was preparing a run for president. Then, as now, speculation colors a legislative session.
Republicans took the United States House. Texas has more Republicans than Democrats there. Discuss. Texas dealt itself out of power when, in 2003, legislators approved a Congressional redistricting plan that knocked off a handful of Democrats who had -- whatever your opinion of their political hue -- significant seniority. But now it's a Republican-led House, and some Texans are senior enough to be in positions of power. Top that with new census numbers that will add four members to the delegation in the 2012 elections, and it's a power surge.
Republicans won. Why are they bickering so much now that they're in control? With Texas effectively a one-party state, the action is in the big red tent. The thing about a big tent is that it has plenty of room for factions. The Republican Party in Texas is split: go back and look at the primaries or at the current internecine race for House speaker. The party has 101 members in the 150-member House, 19 in the 31-member Senate and 23 in the 32-member Congressional delegation. But on many issues, it is divided. What's the fun of having a supermajority if you can't get along?
Are Texas Democrats ready for hospice care? Do they have enough people to be a force during the legislative session? Do the Democrats even want to be a force in a session that involves bloody budget cuts and other rotten choices? And can they have enough impact on redistricting maps to prevent Republicans from locking them out of a majority for the next decade? They'll have to stick together and wait to see whether the Republicans stay divided and need help passing bills.
What's next for the Tea Party? We know its members are loud during elections. So? Is this a movement that gets co-opted by groups like the new legislative Tea Party Caucus, effectively a subset of the Republican Caucus? Is this just another angry mob that goes home when the economy recovers? Phase 1 was a success -- now we know who they are. The question in 2011 is, what will they do now that they have our attention?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); CENSUS (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



27 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: The Status Symbol

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE final noisemaker has squealed and the last dinner guest has straggled home, so the holiday extravaganza that is Christmas and New Year's -- spread out over two long weekends and punctuated by a blizzard -- is over.
Now it's time for the cleanup, and that can mean dealing with more than the usual number of napkins splashed with red wine. For most people in the city, getting the laundry done will mean lugging it to a wash-and-fold service or taking it to the machines in the basement with a stack of quarters in hand.
But a growing number of New Yorkers can give the holiday linens a hot bath at home in their own washers and dryers. This staple of the suburbs remains uncommon in the city -- apartments that have washers and dryers make up only about 20 percent of the sales and rental listings in Manhattan, according to StreetEasy, the real estate Web site. But demand is increasing, Condominium developers are making these appliances part of the standard package, and older buildings -- even prewars -- are relaxing longtime bans to keep residents happy and to avoid scaring off buyers.
But newer buildings have the edge. A search of StreetEasy's listings in late December showed that 593 Manhattan co-ops for sale offered washers, versus 1,849 condos. 
A washer can be worth far more than its weight in lost socks.
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, the appraisal company, said that ''while there is no known empirical data to reliably measure this amenity,'' a washing machine can add as much as 5 percent to an apartment's price tag.
''It is the ultimate convenience,'' said Doug Steinberg, whose one-bedroom condo, at 315 Seventh Avenue in Chelsea, is now on the market for $739,000. The apartment, No. 7B, has its own laundry tucked behind a louvered door, with shelves for detergent and towels.
There was no such space in the two apartments Mr. Steinberg, 38, had previously rented in the building. Nor was there in his current home, which he bought in 2004 and immediately gave a laundry closet, carving it out of a bathroom hallway. The shared machines in the 23-story building's four laundry areas ''tore up'' his clothes, he said.
In 2007 the condo board, of which Mr. Steinberg is now president, clarified the rules to allow washers if the floors under them were waterproofed, and the dryers were of the ventless variety. Today, washers and dryers can be found in about a quarter of the building's apartments, he said.
Brian Goldfarb of Citi Habitats, who is a listing broker on the apartment, says a keeping-up-with-the-Joneses mentality may be stoking interest in washing machines. ''They go out and see all these new condos that have them,'' he said, ''and it plants a seed in their head.''
New technology is also helping to fuel the trend. The washers sold today, especially the front-loading type, tend to be smaller than the top-load models, making them an easier fit for, say, a kitchen alcove, said Allan Schuster, a manager at Gringer & Sons, an appliance store on First Avenue in Manhattan.
The new appliances generally require less water and electricity than older models. In addition, ventless, or ''condensing,'' dryers don't need an air pipe. That is a boon for city residents who can't breach their exterior walls, said Mr. Schuster, who has been selling washers and dryers for almost four decades.
The divide between buildings that allow washers and ones that don't is not as simple as prewar versus postwar. Both exclusive co-ops with a few units per floor and more densely packed 1950s white-brick buildings can have problems if the pipes get clogged with soapy residue, managers say. But buildings that can monitor the condition of their plumbing and take steps to cut down on suds can usually handle washers.
Some buildings -- like Museum Tower at 15 West 53rd Street, a 240-unit condo built in 1985 -- are reversing long-term bans. In the summer of 2009, the board changed House Rule No. 37 to allow washers and dryers, said Corinne Vitale, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens who has sold dozens of units there.
''I thought we were losing deals,'' Ms. Vitale said, ''and I made my thoughts known.''
And it isn't happening just in the ''for sale'' market. Luxury rentals, too, have washers and dryers, among them a couple in Williamsburg, Brooklyn: the new 34 Berry and 184 Kent, a converted warehouse.
At the same time there are holdouts. At 180 East 79th Street, a prewar co-op, the board decided to ban washers as a preventive measure in the 1980s after engineers on the board voiced concerns about wear and tear from too much soap, said Pierrette Hogan, a Sotheby's broker and resident.
Today, Ms. Hogan said, she gets a call a week from brokers asking if the building's policy has changed, up from zero calls five years ago. And about 10 of every 200 people who look at apartments there each year reject them because of the washer ban, she said, adding that the policy could be revoked soon.
Nevada Towers, a 1977 condop at 2025 Broadway on the Upper West Side, allows washers in its 231 apartments. No. 16K, a light-filled two-bedroom listed for $1.25 million, is the result of a combination with a neighboring unit, whose galley kitchen was transformed into a laundry area, with a utility sink and track lighting to complement side-by-side Frigidaire machines.
And in that building, where doing a load in the basement laundry can cost as much $3.50, having one's own might be smart economics. ''If you were to put a jar on top of the washer and put the money in like you would put it in the machines downstairs,'' said Gloria Macri, the Halstead broker who has the listing, ''I'm sure you would see a nice return pretty quickly.''
But even for those who don't count their quarters, the definition of urban luxury surely includes appliances under your very own roof. At 15 Broad Street, a former office building that was converted to high-end condominiums by Africa Israel and Boymelgreen Developers with design input from Philippe Starck, all 326 units have Bosch washers and dryers.
A two-bedroom two-bath unit, No. 2524, is listed with Darren Kearns, an associate broker at the Corcoran Group, for $1.299 million. Its washer and dryer are to be found where they typically are in Manhattan: stacked inside a closet.
Brooklyn apartments, especially those in brownstones, often have more spacious layouts, allowing washers and dryers more elbow room.
Some 80 percent of smaller multi-unit buildings in neighborhoods like Brooklyn Heights, Cobble Hill and Park Slope allow washers and dryers, said Trish Martin, an associate broker with Brown Harris Stevens, who is listing a two-bedroom unit, No. 1R, at 307 Seventh Street, an eight-unit building.
The duplex, priced at $1.195 million, has a small laundry room in its carpeted basement for the exclusive use of the owners. The space holds a full-size Whirlpool washer and dryer.
''It's better than a closet, where there's really no room to work,'' said Ms. Martin on a recent tour, adding that the listing was capitalizing on this new in-house, no-quarters-needed, no-wait-ever status symbol.
''You see dryers going during open houses,'' she said, ''to make sure people don't miss them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOMESTIC BLISS: A washer and dryer in a unit at Nevada Towers, 2025 Broadway. (RE1)
SEPARATE DARKS AND LIGHTS: A washer/dryer closet at the luxury condominium 15 Broad in the financial district. The two-bedroom apartment is listed for $1.299 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DRY ON LOW: A roomy laundry setup at 307 Seventh Street in Park Slope. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ADD POWDER OR LIQUID: A washer/dryer closet at 315 Seventh Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SUBURBS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



28 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EXPLORER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: History and Hospitality Contained in a Cup

BYLINE: By DAN PACKEL

 BODY:
LIKE many mornings, this one started with a cup of coffee.
But while our group of four had traveled far to get to this quiet, mountainside veranda in the southwestern Indian state of Karnataka -- my wife, Katy, and I from Mumbai, our friends Franklin and Sarah all the way from the United States -- our coffee had not.
Our perch was at the center of an old, but still active, coffee plantation, owned by Prasad Poovanna, and the beans that went into the brew we were sipping had been harvested directly from his estate. They had made the short trip to the nearby town of Virajpet, where they were roasted and ground, before being carted back to their source and brewed for our cups.
Savoring the earthy, deeply flavored blend, we watched mists drift across the plantation and the verdant, wooded hills of Coorg beyond. (While the official title of the region has reverted to its original name, Kodagu, the Anglicized version is still widely in use.) For decades, the area has been home to such plantations; now, as they begin to welcome visitors, they are drawing attention for the very hospitality that we were enjoying. 
The area was not always so friendly to outsiders. Long ago, before the British began planting coffee here in the 19th century, neighbors feared the military prowess of the Kodavas, the original inhabitants of the region. The thick forests were also home to wild animals, deadly insects and feisty blood-sucking leeches. A lengthy monsoon, which can extend up to six months every year, compounded the menace.
When India gained independence in 1947, the original British planters sold their estates to Kodavas and other South Indians. While the Indian planters initially flourished, the liberalization of the coffee market in the 1990s ushered in an era of greater economic volatility. In recent years, as a strategy for countering the unreliable price of the commodity, these planters have added lodging facilities to their estates.
''It also gives additional income to the women and provides more work during the lean period,'' said Suresh Chengappa, proprietor of the homestay Honey Valley, referring to the workers who hand-pick coffee beans in his fields. He and his wife, Susheela, first opened their estate to guests in 1994 after a virus eroded their income from beekeeping, which they still pursue to a lesser degree, along with coffee growing.
Mr. Chengappa and other plantation owners are not relying solely on tourists for income: coffee remains a key resource in the region, and Coorg produces more coffee -- both arabica and robusta, the two main varieties of beans grown for consumption -- than anywhere else in India.
Each plantation takes a different approach to brewing coffee. At Mr. Poovanna's Palace Estate, which opened to guests in 2004, the house coffee comes entirely from robusta beans, yielding a bold, almost smoky cup (which, with its depth of flavor, shattered my prejudices against robusta, generally regarded as the lower-quality bean). At Honey Valley, Mr. Chengappa serves a blend of the two varieties, aiming to balance the body of the robusta with the more delicate flavors of the arabica.
Still, most of the beans ship elsewhere in South India and the world. (According to Mr. Poovanna, the Italian espresso giant Illy is now purchasing arabica from Coorg.)
Aside from the coffee's global reputation, the real draw for visitors is the lush vegetation that provides shade for the coffee plants, and the animal life -- birds in particular -- that calls it home. Coorg is part of the Western Ghats, the chain of mountains extending parallel to India's Arabian Sea coast, from Gujarat south to Kerala, an area rich in biodiversity.
Walking through Mr. Chengappa's estate, Katy and I passed coffee bushes sitting beneath a canopy of silver oak trees, which support vines growing black pepper. Along the forest floor, cardamom plants and orange trees occasionally presented themselves.
During her morning strolls around the edges of the plantation, Katy, armed with her ''Pocket Guide to the Birds of the Indian Subcontinent,'' spotted greater racket-tailed drongos, white-cheeked barbets and Malabar parakeets, among other species.
The plantations also make for terrific jumping-off points for area treks. In the photocopied booklet that he makes available to guests, detailing the day hikes available from Honey Valley, Mr. Chengappa described the daylong trek to the top of Mount Tadiandamol -- at about 5,700 feet, the highest point of Coorg -- as perhaps the most interesting hike in the region, if not all of South India.
''The flora is so vivid -- every few meters you come across a different plant,'' he explained later.
As described in the booklet, the hike also includes a visit to the ornamentally carved Nalaknad Palace, built in 1791 by Veerarajendra, the embattled ruler of Coorg. The final stretch adds pastures and rice paddies to the already diverse array of landscapes.
After such a ringing endorsement, we could not refuse. So, after our coffee and breakfast, equipped with boxed lunches, we started up the narrow road that skirts the plantation. While we moved along, Katy and Franklin (also a bird enthusiast) kept their eyes glued to the canopy, adding the Malabar gray hornbill, green imperial pigeon and crested goshawk to the tally of spottings.
As coffee bushes and silver oak gave way first to thicker growth, then to exposed ridge land, the sun began to recede. By the time we passed through one final steep pocket of damp highland forest, we were enveloped in clouds.
At the top of the peak, we were greeted by rain. We lingered for several minutes, hoping that the clouds would briefly part to reveal a glimpse of the hillsides descending into the neighboring state of Kerala. But they remained opaque -- the trail that started down the other side of the mountain might as well have dropped into an abyss.
''The views are very unpredictable,'' Mr. Poovanna said later. ''In May, one of our guests brought back wonderful photos of Kannur'' -- the seaside city over 30 miles to the southwest.
While we stood on the summit, the rain intensified. After a quick snack, we pulled on our rain jackets and hurried downhill. As we worked our way back, the dirt path we were following had turned into a rivulet. But there was still incentive to stop: an owl fluttered out of the hardwood trees in the woods above the plantation.
And soon enough, after a shower and a change of clothes, we were back on the veranda, again sipping hot coffee and watching the mists move across the far hillsides.
IF YOU GO
GETTING THERE
The closest airport to Coorg is the newly opened Mysore Airport. But more flights serve Mangalore International Airport, which offers easy connections to Mumbai. From Mangalore, a hired taxi to the southwest corner of Coorg will cost about 2,200 rupees, or $49 at 45 rupees to the dollar; from Mysore, expect to pay 2,000 rupees.
WHERE TO STAY
Honey Valley (Yavakapady Village Post; 91-8272-238339; honeyvalleyindia.in) offers the longest and most complicated ascent of Mount Tadiandamol (it's easy to get lost, so make sure you have a guide or a map), but also serves as the staging point for a variety of other satisfying hikes. Rooms range from simple huts with shared bath (250 rupees) to doubles with private outdoor seating (990 rupees). Breakfast, lunch and dinner are all served for an additional charge.
Palace Estate (Kakkabe; 91-8272-238446; palaceestate.co.in), located just above the Nalaknad Palace, offers eight double rooms (1,200 to 1,800 rupees) and two single rooms (500 rupees) in a handsome wood-paneled guest house. A small waterfall is just a five-minute walk away. Breakfast, lunch and dinner are all served for an additional charge.
Misty Woods (Kakkabe; 91-8272-238561; coorgmisty.com) is a cluster of individual clay brick and wooden cottages that sit on a functioning coffee estate just down the road from the Nalaknad Palace; each features a private outdoor seating area. Double occupancy cottages are 3,500 rupees (with meals, 5,000 rupees).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rows of dried coffee berries in Coorg, India. Coffee remains a key resource there, but plantations are adding lodging facilities to supplement income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN/BLOOMBERG) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE FARMING (89%); COFFEE (89%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); WILDLIFE (69%); APICULTURE (65%); ANIMALS (64%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%) SOUTH INDIA (93%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



29 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: School District Moves Slowly To Manage Its Real Estate

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLLAN. 
jgollan@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Despite being one of the largest financially struggling landowners in the city, the San Francisco Unified School District has largely failed to actively manage its holdings, leaving a number of valuable properties idle for years. 
Decades of declining enrollment led the district to acknowledge in 2007 that roughly 20 percent of its holdings had little or no educational use. It also designated 10 vacant or underused properties as surplus and concluded that selling them would net an estimated $134 million, plus millions more in property tax revenue.
But interviews and records show that the district has moved slowly since then to sell or lease the properties. None of them have been sold. Last year, the district cut its real estate department director, who had been in charge of overseeing the sale and leasing of the district's real estate, and shifted his duties to the district's facilities director. A real estate consultant has been hired to help sell and develop these properties.
Critics say the district's lackadaisical approach is baffling, given that it is facing $113 million in cuts through June 2012. Taxpayers have financed $745 million for two bond measures to pay for improvements to district facilities, and the city has spent millions of tax dollars to help underwrite art and other extracurricular activities for students since 2004.
''They have significant assets that they should absolutely be making better use of to provide a better education in a time of great need,'' said Abraham Simmons, whose three children attended elementary schools in the city and who recently lost to Mark Farrell in the race to replace Michela Alioto-Pier on the Board of Supervisors. ''The district is sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars of property and officials have been unable to come to agreement for years.''
The district's surplus properties include what was once the Florence Martin Children's Center, a low-slung building covered with graffiti in the city's Haight-Ashbury neighborhood, and a sprawling patch of crumbling concrete and overgrown weeds near Highway 280 in Potrero Hill. Notable exceptions like the former Newcomer High School in Pacific Heights have attracted some tenants -- a Montessori school and a nonprofit organization -- that are generating modest revenue for the district.
Though it may seem like a waste to maintain empty buildings and miss out on potential sales and property tax revenue, some district officials argue that the empty properties could be converted into affordable housing for teachers or new charter schools. At least half of the surplus properties remain unused, according to the district.
''Some of these properties have potential value to us in the future,'' said Jill Wynns, a longtime member of the school board. ''We want to be careful.''
But Ms. Wynns said the plan for teacher housing remained stalled, and the staff is busy with other pressing policy issues, like budget cuts.
Predicting the district's future enrollment, let alone the number of new charter schools that will open, is impossible, educators say.
''It is like predicting the California economy,'' said Michael Kirst, an emeritus professor of education and business administration at Stanford University. ''Our population growth has slowed, but how do you know it won't resume?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



30 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 947 words

PERSON: Arnold Hans Weiss 

HEADLINE: Arnold Weiss Dies at 86; Helped to Find Hitler's Will

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Arnold Hans Weiss, who fled to the United States from Nazi Germany as a 13-year-old and returned as an American soldier during World War II, becoming a principal in the investigation that led to the discovery of Hitler's last will and political testament, died Dec. 7 in Rockville, Md. He was 86 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
The cause was pneumonia, said his son Daniel. 
Mr. Weiss, who became a successful lawyer and banker, was just 21 at the close of the war in 1945. That fall, he was stationed in Munich as an officer in the United States Army's Counter-Intelligence Corps.
Hitler had killed himself in his Berlin bunker in April, but rumors of his survival were rampant, and Mr. Weiss's unit was charged with finding definitive proof of his death. His job was tracking down high-ranking Nazi officials who might have been with Hitler in his last days.
He found Wilhelm Zander, chief aide to Martin Bormann, the Nazi Party official who had controlled access to Hitler.
The story of his pursuit of Mr. Zander, which Mr. Weiss described in an article in The Washington Post Magazine in 2005 and which has been written piecemeal with some varying details in several books, was the stuff of a suspense film.
Working with Hugh Trevor-Roper, the British intelligence officer and historian who wrote ''The Last Days of Hitler,'' and another American agent named Rosener, Mr. Weiss pressured Mr. Zander's family members, whom he found in the telephone book, and a girlfriend to gain the information that led to a Bavarian farmhouse where Mr. Zander was posing as a gardener.
Mr. Weiss took part, largely as a translator, in the interrogation of Mr. Zander, who initially claimed to be a victim of misidentification but who finally declared: ''You are correct. I am SS Standartenfuhrer Wilhelm Zander.'' He proceeded to talk for hours about what went on in the bunker during Hitler's last days and what became of other Nazi leaders.
Finally, Mr. Weiss asked Mr. Zander why he had left the bunker, and Mr. Zander said he had been sent on a courier's mission. He added, ''I suppose you want the documents.''
The documents, finally recovered in the hidden compartment of a suitcase thrown in a dry well, were Hitler's will and political testament, along with the certificate of his deathbed marriage to Eva Braun. Later authenticated and used as evidence in the Nuremberg trials, Hitler's will bequeathed most of his belongings to the Nazi Party and named Mr. Bormann as his executor.
The political testament was a defiantly unrepentant declaration that it was not he but Jews and their supporters who were responsible for the war. He predicted a glorious future for the Third Reich and concluded, chillingly, ''Above all I charge the leaders of the nation and those under them to scrupulous observance of the laws of race and to merciless opposition to the universal poisoner of all peoples, international Jewry.''
Whether Mr. Weiss was the first to read the documents, as he claimed, is uncertain. Mr. Trevor-Roper's book makes no mention of him, and other histories tell slightly altered versions of the event. In addition, ''Hitler's Will,'' a 2009 memoir by a former British soldier, Herman Rothman, said that a copy of the documents was discovered under entirely different circumstances two months earlier, and that he was their initial translator.
Nonetheless Mr. Weiss's role in the capture of Mr. Zander and the recovery of the documents seems incontrovertible. In a letter awarding him an Army Commendation Ribbon for service performed Dec. 24 to 28 in 1945, Brig. Gen. Edwin L. Silbert wrote, ''When called upon in an emergency you assumed the responsibility of apprehending a personality high in the annals of the Nazi system.''
Hans Arnold Wangersheim was born in Nuremberg on July 25, 1924. His parents divorced when he was 6, and he was placed in a Jewish orphanage, where he lived until he was 13. His grandmother died at Auschwitz. His mother and sisters escaped from Germany on their own and eventually made it to the United States. His father later spent time in Dachau and eventually lived out his life in Brazil, though father and son never met again.
Young Hans was sent to the United States by a Jewish social services organization, and he was ultimately placed with a family that owned a jewelry store in Janesville, Wis. He began studying at the University of Wisconsin before joining the Army. He borrowed the name Weiss from a Wisconsin football star.
In the Army, Mr. Weiss trained as a tail gunner until a crash landing broke both his legs. During his recuperation, because of his German language skills, he was recruited by the Office of Strategic Services, the World War II intelligence service, before joining the Counter-Intelligence Corps.
Mr. Weiss married Artemis Lychos in 1956; she died in 2005. In addition to his son Daniel, who lives in North Bethesda, Md., he is survived by another son, Andrew, also of North Bethesda, and three grandchildren.
Mr. Weiss studied economics and politics at Wisconsin, then earned a law degree there. He later worked as a lawyer for the Treasury Department, helped start the Inter-American Development Bank and became senior vice president and general counsel for Emerging Markets Partnership, an international private equity firm based in Washington that specializes in infrastructure projects in developing countries.
It was a career, he said in an interview last year with the Wisconsin Alumni Association, that his war experience pointed him toward.
''I decided I wanted to build rather than destroy,'' he said. ''In Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Germany, there was so much destruction. I knew there was a better way of doing things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arnold Weiss 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); WORLD WAR II (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (73%); HISTORY (72%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (88%)

CATEGORY: Military, Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



31 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: State's Economic Hardship 'Cannot Be Underestimated'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's inaugural address on Saturday, as provided by his office. The full speech is at nytimes.com/nyregion.
First let me begin by thanking the people of the State of New York for this tremendous honor. I am humbled to be their public servant, and I will honor their trust and their confidence every day. Thank you. ...
During this campaign, Bob [Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy] and I had the opportunity to visit all 62 counties once again. And doing it in a relatively compressed period of time, it's just a beautiful reminder of the assets that we have in this state. ... 
I also saw up close and personal the suffering that our people are facing and the devastating toll that this economy has taken. And it cannot be underestimated.
Young people all across upstate New York who are leaving because they believe there is no economic future left. The taxpayers on Long Island who are imprisoned in their homes because they can't afford to pay the property taxes anymore, but the value of the home has dropped so low that they can't afford to sell the house because they can't pay off the mortgage. The laid-off construction worker in Brooklyn who can't find a job and is fretting about what he's going to do to feed his family when the unemployment insurance runs out.
This, my friends, cannot be underestimated. And to make it actually worse, people then feel betrayed by their government. That they have problems, they have needs, they look to the government and they assume the government was going to be there to help them because that's what government is supposed to be all about. And they look to the government and instead they find a government that's part of the problem rather than part of the solution. ...
We have a very specific mandate for change that the people want. And our expectation is that the politicians and the elected officials of people are now going to do what the people voted for and what the people need.
It starts with jobs, jobs, jobs, getting the economy running once again. Getting the economy running all across this great state.
Number 2 is going to be cleaning up Albany and restoring trust, because Bob is right, you have nothing without trust. Any relationship is only as good as the level of trust, and we have lost the trust. And we are not going to get it back until we clean up Albany and there's real transparency and real disclosure and real accountability and real ethics enforcement. ...
We will be taking on powerful interests and long-entrenched patterns of behavior. And change is very, very hard. Change is hard individually, in our own lives. Change is especially hard in a collective, and to get this government to change, to get this body to change, after all the years and after all the attempts and after people are so set in their ways, it's going to be difficult. ...
I was walking in the hallways of this Capitol a few months ago and I was a few steps behind a mother and apparently her daughter, and they were walking through the hallways and the daughter was obviously taken by the majesty of the building. And the daughter turned to her mother and said, ''Mom, where are all the people?'' And the mother said, ''The people are working; they are in the offices, they are in the offices.'' Because the halls were fairly empty. And the girl said: ''But doesn't anyone come to visit? It is so beautiful and it is so important.''
It is so beautiful and it is so important. And I thought to myself, out of the mouths of babes.
Where are the people? Where are the people in Albany? Where are the people in the Capitol? That is the profound absence in this system. The people aren't engaged. And that is what is going to have to change. If there is a silver bullet in the battle to recapture Albany, it is the re-engagement of our citizens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



32 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
TOP TEHRAN PROSECUTOR VOWS
To Charge Opposition
A top Iranian judicial official has vowed to prosecute top opposition figures, in what could signal a decisive move against the leaders of Iran's opposition movement more than a year after the last major antigovernment protests over the disputed re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. PAGE 11
A CALL FOR KOREAN DIALOGUE
In an annual New Year's commentary that is widely seen as an indicator of the country's political and economic goals for the coming year, North Korea called for dialogue with South Korea and a relaxation of tensions ''as soon as possible.'' PAGE 12 
CABLE CONFIRMS ACCUSATIONS
The International Criminal Court's chief prosecutor has confirmed reports that he told diplomats that his office had found evidence that President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan had a huge personal fortune skimmed from his country's oil income and kept in foreign accounts. PAGE 12
TEAR GAS KILLS PROTESTER
A Palestinian woman died after inhaling tear gas fired by Israeli forces a day earlier at a protest against Israel's separation barrier in a West Bank village. PAGE 12
National
FOR NURSING MOTHERS,
Escape From Partisanship
There are four lactation suites throughout Capitol Hill, along with several health stations. All are clean, private areas where new mothers can nurse their babies and pump their milk. They are also one of the few truly bipartisan spaces left on the Hill, neutral zones amid partisan warfare. PAGE 16
TEA PARTY'S ROUGH START
As Tea Party politicians prepare to take their seats as the 112th Congress convenes this week, they already have issues with their leaders in the Republican Party -- from the amount of spending and ''caving'' that went on in the waning weeks of Democratic control of the House of Representatives, to the failure to give some candidates backed by Tea Party groups powerful leadership positions. PAGE 13
Metropolitan
THE WILDERNESS
Below Your Feet
Some adventurers have taken to exploring the sometimes dangerous subterranean world in the sewers and tunnels beneath New York. PAGE 1
Sports
IN JACKSON'S FAREWELL TOUR,
Lakers Show Flaws
If this is indeed the final finale for Phil Jackson -- he has stepped away from coaching in the N.B.A. twice before -- it has gotten off to an interesting start. The Lakers are 23-10 and comfortably ahead in the Pacific Division, but they were hammered on national television by the Miami Heat on Christmas Day and are not intimidating anyone these days. PAGE 6
Obituaries
ARNOLD HANS WEISS, 86
He fled to the United States from Nazi Germany as a 13-year-old and returned as an American soldier during World War II, becoming a principal in the investigation that discovered Hitler's last will and political testament. PAGE 22
RUTH PARK, 93
Her novel of the Sydney slums, ''The Harp in the South,'' shocked Australians in the 1940s but did not prevent her from becoming one of the country's most revered writers. PAGE 22
STEVEN W. FISHER, 64
A New York State justice, he presided over the trial of two men who killed five employees of a Wendy's fast-food restaurant in Queens in 2000. PAGE 22
Sunday Business
ELECTRONIC TRADING CREATES
A New Financial Landscape
In many of the world's markets, nearly all stock trading is now conducted by computers talking to other computers at high speeds. But some experts wonder whether the technology is getting dangerously out of control. PAGE 1
INNOVATION, MADE IN CHINA
China is trying to build an economy that relies on innovation rather than imitation. But can China become a prodigious inventor? The answer, in truth, will play out over decades -- and go a long way toward determining not only China's future, but also the shape of the global economy. Steve Lohr, Unboxed. PAGE 3
PROSPERITY, REAL OR IMAGINED
In ''Inflated: How Money and Debt Built the American Dream,'' R. Christopher Whalen, a consultant and former investment banker, marches back in time to try to understand the long-term viability of the American economy in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Review by Nancy F. Koehn. PAGE 4
SEARCHING FOR TINY FLAWS
A new generation of sharp-eyed mechanical inspectors may be able to find dangerous microscopic flaws in mechanical equipment. PAGE 3
Magazine
MY FUTURISTIC INSTA-FAMILY
How three women (and a husband) helped make twiblings, a son and a daughter of the same age from the same egg donor but two different surrogates. Yes, it was complicated. PAGE 28
FUNNY MONEY
With a gift for seeing the genius in the dorkiest dorks and the loneliest losers, one Hollywood talent manager made himself into the king of comedians. PAGE 22
THE CASTE BUSTER
Ravindra Misal rejected tradition to become the rarity in India: a self-made man. With his ''personality contests'' and idiomatic-English lessons, he's trying to help other ambitious young Indians do the same. PAGE 36
Book Review
EXPLAINING CRITICISM
And Why It Matters
Six of today's accomplished literary critics explain what it is they do and why they do it. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
HOLD THAT OBITUARY;
MoMA's Not Dead
In 2004, the Museum of Modern Art opened its slick new home on West 53rd Street and over the next two years, the museum appeared to many to be committing slow suicide by architecture. But this much is certain: The Modern isn't sitting on its hands, Roberta Smith writes. With spectacle and some self-imposed limitations, MoMA is evolving into its new space. PAGE 1
KEEPING POP MUSIC SIMPLE
The pressures on musicians to keep things simple are obvious. But as sales of recorded music dwindle, the incentives only increase to write songs around nuggets and generic sentiments that can be repurposed as ad jingles, ring tones and soundtrack backgrounds. There's always another act with another gimmick and slogan, the next novelty offering instant gratification and a short shelf life. But as John Pareles writes, pop songwriting, in need of rejuvenation, may be heading for a spirit that could be called the New Simplicity. PAGE 1
Sunday Styles
LOOKING BEHIND US
As 2010 Vanishes
The most memorable and most forgettable fashion moments of 2010, from the death of Alexander McQueen to trapper hats that were cute two years ago but now look less hipster and more Elmer Fudd, Cathy Horyn writes. PAGE 5
BIG BOYS DON'T CRY, RIGHT?
Should the waterworks of middle age, like those displayed by John Boehner, be thought of as weird? Some experts say no and that this great nation and its pundits should give the guy a break. PAGE 2
FASHION'S WILD CHILD
On the fashion scene, Daphne Guinness is a wonderful oddity, writes Guy Trebay. Over the last year, hers has been among the most startling, engaging and fascinating presences. PAGE 6
Automobiles
IN 2010, THE CLOUDS PARTED
To a Far Sunnier Forecast
The last year in automobiles could have been mistaken for an episode of ''Survivor,'' only set in the urban jungle of Detroit rather than some tropical backwater. As industry players retrenched and gritted their teeth, the 2010 season featured heroes and villains, new alliances, narrow escapes and thrilling reversals of fortune. PAGE 1
CRITICS' PICKS FOR THE YEAR
As each year passes, writers for these pages comb through their notebooks for recap of the cars and trucks that impressed them the most in the previous 12 months. Here are three top-ten lists of hot cars in a cool economy. PAGE 1
Week in Review
EATING FOR ONE,
Or Six Billion
Diet books with ''revolutionary'' ideas flood the market this time of year, promising permanent life changes for their cover price. But as everyone knows, the key to eating better begins with a diet of real food. The problem is, real food is cooked by real people, and people are cooking at home less than ever. Page 3
THE 'ME' MARRIAGE
For centuries, marriage was viewed as an economic and social institution, the survival of the marriage was paramount, not the satisfaction of the individual. But in modern relationships, people are looking for a partnership, and they want partners who make their lives more interesting. Page 4
Editorial
THE ECONOMY IN 2011
The economy is growing, but for many Americans, life is not getting better. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
CHINA'S NAVAL AMBITIONS
Beijing's drive to extend its military and territorial reach is raising legitimate questions about American diplomacy and future military procurement. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
HOMELAND BLATHER
Representative Peter King of New York is no stranger to bluster, but his sweeping slur on Muslim citizens is unacceptable. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
LOOKING BACK
Reflecting on a Depression-era technology that still works and a family farm known only through photographs. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Want a happy, healthy country? Focus on reducing inequality. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); WORLD WAR II (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); BASKETBALL (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BREASTFEEDING (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); CAVING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); OMAR AL-BASHIR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



33 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Near Timbuktu, Mali Tackles Al Qaeda and Drug Traffickers

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- The tourism minister, N'Diaye Bah, visibly bristled when asked about the possibility that Al Qaeda's North African offshoot might kidnap foreigners in fabled Timbuktu or anywhere across Mali's northern desert.
France spread such rumors, he insisted. ''They want to create this security issue that does not exist,'' he said, wagging his finger. ''When you come to Mali, there is no aggression against tourists. How can you say there is insecurity in this country?''
Yet the United States and French Embassies, among other foreign missions, explicitly warn against traveling to Timbuktu and indeed the entire desert that sweeps across roughly two-thirds of this landlocked West African nation. A French Embassy map colors the entire north red, a no-go area.
This uneasy, public standoff has existed for some time, reflective of Mali's insistence that it is not a font of violence like some of its neighbors, notably Algeria. But in a sign that Mali both acknowledges the issue and seeks to address it, the country is rolling out a new development plan, hoping to tackle the problem at its roots. 
The dearth of jobs and prospects in the north helps drive the region's twin ills -- narcotics trafficking and Islamic radicalism. By setting up military barracks, infirmaries, schools, shopping areas and animal markets in 11 northern towns, the Malian government hopes to establish a more visible government presence, foster economic activity and form a bulwark against lawlessness.
''The ultimate goal of the project is to eradicate'' Al Qaeda's affiliates in Mali, said Adam Tchiam, a leading Malian columnist.
Mali does not deny that an estimated 200 to 300 fighters from Al Qaeda of the Islamic Maghreb (Maghreb being the Arabic term for west) have found a perch in their desert, although most are believed to be Mauritanians and Algerians. But Mali often depicts the terrorists as a problem generated elsewhere.
''We are hostages to a situation that does not concern us,'' news reports quoted President Amadou Toumani Toure as saying.
Behind the scenes, however, the president has been more forthcoming. In a meeting with the American ambassador, Gillian A. Milovanovic, and senior American military officers last year, he said the extremists ''have had difficulty getting their message across to a generally reluctant population,'' according to an embassy cable obtained by WikiLeaks and made available to several news organizations. Still, Mr. Toure acknowledged, ''they have had some success in enlisting disaffected youth to their ranks.''
In recent years, the Qaeda affiliate has left a trail of violence across Mauritania, Niger, Algeria and Mali, taking aim at tourists, expatriate workers, local residents and security forces. Hostages taken in the porous border regions have been executed or ransomed. Five French and two African workers kidnapped in Niger last September are believed to be held in northern Mali.
The Algerians and some Western diplomats accuse the Malians of being too soft on terrorism, an opinion reflected in the cables obtained by WikiLeaks. But Mali's defenders argue that the regional problem is far larger than any one poor country can address.
To that end, Mauritania recently moved uninvited troops permanently across the border in Mali to eradicate a Qaeda encampment, diplomats said, and Mali did not object.
For his part, President Toure has been trying to forge a regional consensus on the issue, but the leaked cables and diplomats suggest that Algeria has been reluctant to take part. Algerian officials regularly criticize the presence of French and American training forces, saying they constitute another threat.
Mali's own plan faces two main problems, one domestic and one foreign. Tuareg rebels fought the government in the desert for decades, with the 1992 peace treaty specifying that the government forces completely withdraw from the north. Deploying them there risks reigniting a conflict that still simmers.
Even so, some northerners endorse almost any government action in the harsh environment, where battling sand alone constitutes a daily struggle.
''There are villages that have never seen an administrator, never seen a nurse, never seen a teacher,'' said Amboudi Side Ahmed, a businessman in the capital, Bamako, who was raised in the north. ''You could stay in a village up there for 10 years and never see a government official.''
Then there is the question of whether these northern hubs are even feasible, given the reluctance of foreign aid workers to venture north and finance projects there. ''The president says the poor protect Al Qaeda because they do not have any means,'' said Mr. Tchiam, the columnist. ''Where are the means?''
While foreign governments recognize that the north needs development, the lack of security hampers it. American Embassy personnel, for example, can travel north only with express permission of the ambassador, which she said she rarely granted.
''Development is critical in dealing with the north,'' Ambassador Milovanovic said, but ''so long as security is unstable, it is hard to get those projects going.''
''We cannot just throw money up there.''
After her own visits, she has tried to meet local requests by offering training for midwives or supplying four-wheel-drive ambulances. As part of its broader efforts to counter extremism in northern Mali, the United States also underwrote a series of radio soap operas whose plot twists emphasized the dangers of extremism.
Beyond that, Washington provides basic military training, sometimes even more basic than envisioned. An exercise on what to do when the driver of a vehicle is shot dead revealed a startling truth -- most Malian soldiers did not know how to drive. Lessons were instituted. But Malian officials want more.
''How many people in the north listen to the radio? That is never going to be strong enough to change their views on A.Q.M.I. or religious fundamentalism,'' said Mohamed Baby, a presidential adviser working on fixing the northern problem, using the initials of the French name for Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. ''We need to deal with development, with the lack of resources.''
Qaeda fighters have sometimes ingratiated themselves by paying inflated prices for food, fuel and other goods. Diplomats believe that the extremists have also informed local smugglers that they will pay a premium for kidnapped Westerners.
Aside from collecting ransoms for hostages, Al Qaeda is believed to be financing its operations by exacting tolls from drug smugglers and traffickers in arms, humans and illicit goods. Since at least the 10th century, Timbuktu has been a crossroads for trade routes across the Sahara, and the modern age is no different.
A series of drug-laden planes make the loop from South America to the Sahel, but numbers are elusive, said Alexandre Schmidt of the United Nations drug office. In one notorious 2009 episode, a Boeing 727 believed to have ferried cocaine from Latin America was set on fire after it got stuck in the sand.
Both the drug smugglers and Al Qaeda offer young men a quick route to money and symbols of prestige like a pickup truck. The government plan has no easy, short-term ways to compete, officials concede.
''They can recruit young people and undermine both the economy and the religion,'' Mr. Baby said of the militants. ''We have to build up some kind of resistance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman removing husks from rice in Soumouni, Mali. The government hopes that a new development plan will curb militancy.
 Tending a herd, left, and setting a fishing net, right, near Beldenadji, Mali. Extreme poverty in parts of Mali threatens to push some people into drug trafficking and Islamic radicalism. Projects to foster economic activity are seen as a countermeasure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); TOURISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (66%); RELIGION (65%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (99%); FRANCE (94%); ALGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MAURITANIA (92%); NIGER (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



34 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC WORKERS FACING OUTRAGE IN BUDGET CRISIS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
FLEMINGTON, N.J. -- Ever since Marie Corfield's confrontation with Gov. Chris Christie this fall over the state's education cuts became a YouTube classic, she has received a stream of vituperative e-mails and Facebook postings.
''People I don't even know are calling me horrible names,'' said Ms. Corfield, an art teacher who had pleaded the case of struggling teachers. ''The mantra is that the problem is the unions, the unions, the unions.''
Across the nation, a rising irritation with public employee unions is palpable, as a wounded economy has blown gaping holes in state, city and town budgets, and revealed that some public pension funds dangle perilously close to bankruptcy. In California, New York, Michigan and New Jersey, states where public unions wield much power and the culture historically tends to be pro-labor, even longtime liberal political leaders have demanded concessions -- wage freezes, benefit cuts and tougher work rules.
It is an angry conversation. Union chiefs, who sometimes persuaded members to take pension sweeteners in lieu of raises, are loath to surrender ground. Taxpayers are split between those who want cuts and those who hope that rising tax receipts might bring easier choices. 
And a growing cadre of political leaders and municipal finance experts argue that much of the edifice of municipal and state finance is jury-rigged and, without new revenue, perhaps unsustainable. Too many political leaders, they argue, acted too irresponsibly, failing to either raise taxes or cut spending.
A brutal reckoning awaits, they say.
These battles play out in many corners, but few are more passionate than in New Jersey, where politics tend toward the moderately liberal and nearly 20 percent of the work force is unionized (compared with less than 14 percent nationally). From tony horse-country towns to middle-class suburbs to hard-edged cities, property tax and unemployment rates are high, and budgets are pools of red ink.
A new regime in state politics is venting frustration less at Goldman Sachs executives (Governor Christie vetoed a proposed ''millionaire's tax'' this year) than at unions. Newark recently laid off police officers after they refused to accept cuts, and Camden has threatened to lay off half of its officers in January.
Fred Siegel, a historian at the conservative-leaning Manhattan Institute, has written of the ''New Tammany Hall,'' which he describes as the incestuous alliance between public officials and labor.
''Public unions have had no natural adversary; they give politicians political support and get good contracts back,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''It's uniquely dysfunctional.''
Even if that is so, this battle comes woven with complications. Across the nation in the last two years, public workers have experienced furloughs and pay cuts. Local governments shed 212,000 jobs last year.
A raft of recent studies found that public salaries, even with benefits included, are equivalent to or lag slightly behind those of private sector workers. The Manhattan Institute, which is not terribly sympathetic to unions, studied New Jersey and concluded that teachers earned wages roughly comparable to people in the private sector with a similar education.
Benefits tend to be the sorest point. From Illinois to New Jersey, politicians have refused to pay into pension funds, creating deeper and deeper shortfalls.
In California, pension costs now crowd out spending for parks, public schools and state universities; in Illinois, spiraling pension costs threaten the state with insolvency.
And taxpayer resentment simmers.
Trouble in New Jersey
To venture into Washington Township in southern New Jersey is to walk the frayed line between taxpayer and public employees, and to hear anger and ambivalence. So many Philadelphians have flocked here over the years that locals call it ''South Philly with grass.''
These expatriates tend to be Democrats and union members, or sons and daughters of the same. But property taxes are rising fast, and voters favored Governor Christie, a Republican. Bill Rahl, a graying plug of a retiree, squints and holds his hand against his throat. ''I'm up to here with taxes, I can't breathe, O.K.?'' he says. ''I don't know about asking anyone to give up a pension. Just don't ask for no more.''
Governor Christie faced a vast deficit when he took office last January, and much of the federal stimulus aid for schools was exhausted by June. So he cut deeply into state aid for education; Washington Township lost $900,000. That forced the town to rely principally on property taxes. (Few states lean as heavily on property taxes to finance education; New Jersey ranks 45th in state aid to education.) The town turned its construction office over to a private contractor and shed a few employees.
Assemblyman Paul D. Moriarty, a liberal Democrat, served four years as mayor of Washington Township. As the bill for pension and health benefits for town employees soared, he struggled to explain this to constituents.
''We really should not receive benefits any better than the people we serve,'' he says. ''It leads to a lot of resentment against public employees.''
All of which sounds logical, except that, as Mr. Moriarty also acknowledges, such thinking also ''leads to a race to the bottom.'' That is, as businesses cut private sector benefits, pressure grows on government to cut pay and benefits for its employees.
Robert Master, political director for the Communication Workers of America District 1, which represents 40,000 state workers, speaks to that difficulty.
''The subtext of Christie's message to a lot of people is that 'you're paying for benefits you'll never have,' '' he says. ''Our challenge is how to defend middle-class health and retirement security, not just for our members but for all working families, when over the past 30 years retirement and health care in the private sector have been essentially demolished.''
This said, some union officials privately say that the teachers' union, in its battle against cuts to salaries and benefits, misread Mr. Christie and the public temperament. Better to endorse a wage freeze, they say, than to argue that teachers should be held harmless against the economic storm.
In the past, union leaders, too, have proven adept at winning gains not just at the bargaining table. In 2000, union lobbyists persuaded legislators to cut five years off the retirement age for police and firefighters -- a move criticized as a budget-buster by a state pension commission. The next year, the budget still was flush and union leaders persuaded the Republican dominated legislature to approve a 9 percent increase in pension benefits. (The legislators added a sweetener for their own pensions.)
Those labor leaders, however, proved less successful in persuading their legislative allies to pay for such benefits. For much of the last two decades, New Jersey has shortchanged its pension contribution.
Governor Christie talked about tough choices this past year -- then skipped the state's required $3.1 billion payment. Now New Jersey has a $53.9 billion unfunded pension liability.
A recent Monmouth University/Gannett New Jersey poll found a narrow plurality of respondents in the state in favor of ditching the pensions for a 401(k)-type program. Public pensions, however, run the gamut, from modest (the average local government pensioner makes less than $20,000 a year while teachers draw about $46,000) to the gilded variety for police and firefighters, some of whom collect six figures. And then there's the political class, which has made an art form of pension collection.
Some politicians draw multiple pensions as county legislators, called freeholders, and as prosecutors or union leaders. Back in Washington Township, people tend to talk of state government as a casino with fixed craps tables.
A white-haired retired undercover police officer, whose wrap-around shades match his black Harley-Davidson jacket, pauses outside the Washington Township municipal building to consider the many targets. He did not want to give his name.
''Christie has all the good intentions in the world but has he hit the right people?'' he says. ''I understand pulling in belts, but you talking about janitors and cops, or the free-loading freeholder?''
Good Jobs, at What Cost?
So how much is too much? On their face, New Jersey's public salaries are not exorbitant. The state has one of the highest per-capita incomes in the country, and the average teacher makes $66,597, which even with benefits is on par with or slightly behind similarly educated private sector workers, according to Jeffrey H. Keefe, a Rutgers professor who studied the issue for the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute.
Mr. Keefe, however, uncovered some intriguing class splits. Blue-collar public workers make more money than their private sector counterparts. For such jobs, public unions have established a higher wage floor.
The sense that public workers enjoy certain advantages is not a mirage. Public employees pay into their pension funds, but health benefits often come at a fraction of the cost of most private sector packages.
Government employment also tends to be more secure. When the economy crashed, federal stimulus dollars safeguarded many public jobs. The alternative, many economists point out, was to force towns and cities into extensive layoffs, even as unemployment hovered around 10 percent and millions of Americans sought help from public agencies.
But it accentuated the perception that public workers, however tenuously, inhabited a protected class. That's a tough sell in Washington Township.
Ask Michael Tini, 54, who works as a card dealer in Atlantic City, about teacher salaries and benefits and he taps his head, not unsympathetically.
''Look, I understand that teachers are the brains of the operation, O.K.? But my hours are cut, and my taxes are killing me.''
He taps his head again. ''They have got to take it in the ear, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marie Corfield, a teacher in Flemington, N.J., challenged Gov. Chris Christie over state education cuts at a town hall meeting in September. Their tense exchange was posted on YouTube. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael Tini, left, a card dealer in Atlantic City, N.J., thinks public school teachers should take their fair share of the pain. Bill Rahl, a retiree, says people shouldn't have to give up a pension. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (88%); LIBERALISM (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); HISTORY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LAYOFFS (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



35 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: CUOMO PROMISES EMERGENCY PLAN ON FINANCE WOES

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Elizabeth A. Harris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Andrew Mark Cuomo became the 56th governor of New York on Saturday, promising to immediately take on the state's huge financial problems and to fight to limit taxes on homeowners across the state.
In his inaugural address, Mr. Cuomo said he would unveil an emergency financial plan this week -- a month before his first budget proposal is due -- and push aggressively for stronger ethics enforcement in Albany.
''There is no more time to waste,'' Mr. Cuomo, 53, said in a 25-minute speech, his voice often rising. ''It is a time for deeds, not words, and results, not rhetoric. It is time for a bold agenda and immediate action. There is no more waiting for tomorrow, and there are no more baby steps, my friends.'' 
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, pledged to approach his job with ''constructive impatience,'' shrink the size of the sprawling state government, and represent the interests of those who have lost faith in Albany.
He emphasized his plan to cap the growth of local property taxes, a particular concern to suburban and rural residents. That proposal is already setting off worry among local officials and some public-employee unions, who say that it will result in deep spending cuts in cities and towns.
Mr. Cuomo described residents as being imprisoned in their homes, which are losing value even as their tax bills keep climbing.
''Nothing is going up in their lives,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''Their income isn't going up, their banking account isn't going up, their savings aren't going up. They can't afford the never-ending tax increases in the state of New York, and this state has no future if it is going to be the tax capital of the nation.''
His first moves as governor were symbolic: Mr. Cuomo declared that he would remove the concrete barriers that have surrounded the Capitol building since the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks; within minutes of his speech, workers began loading the barriers onto a flatbed truck.
He also opened a historic hallway outside the governor's office that Gov. George E. Pataki had closed off to the public.
''To get into this Capitol is like running an obstacle course, and it shouldn't be,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''People refer to the Capitol as a fort or as a bunker, and it is anything but. This is a beautiful monument to democracy, this building. This is the people's meeting place, and they should be invited in. And today, my friends, we will reopen the Capitol, literally and figuratively.''
Mr. Cuomo is taking office at a time when the state faces daunting problems and the public expresses little confidence that its political leaders can solve them. A parade of government officials and lawmakers have admitted or been found guilty of abusing their office for personal gain; the governor and comptroller elected in 2006 resigned their offices amid scandal.
Mr. Cuomo must grapple with a $9 billion budget deficit and a divided and perennially dysfunctional Legislature.
''People all across the state, when you mention state government, literally are shaking their heads,'' he said. ''Worse than no confidence, what they're saying is no trust. The words 'government in Albany' have become a national punch line, and the joke is on us.''
Much remains in flux in Mr. Cuomo's nascent administration. At least for now, Mr. Cuomo is relying on his predecessor's budget director, and he has yet to fill the state's top economic post.
Aides to Mr. Cuomo would not provide details about the financial plan he will present in an address to the Legislature on Wednesday; the governor referred to the proposal as an ''emergency financial reinvention plan.'' But in recent months, Mr. Cuomo has vowed to shrink the number of state agencies by one-fifth and to make substantial cuts to the state's Medicaid program, the most costly in the nation.
To underscore the seriousness of the situation he confronts, Mr. Cuomo eschewed any galas after his inauguration, and instead held a cabinet meeting in the morning, before the ceremony, calling Saturday a regular working day.
''In my administration this is going to be the way it works,'' he said. ''When we actually do something and perform and help the people of New York State and make government function, then we're going to have a big party and celebrate, and not before.''
Still, there were moments of warmth and humor. And interestingly, in an era when politicians often decry the culture of government, Mr. Cuomo embraced the state's history, saying he was inspired by his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and the men his father worked alongside. He cited former Gov. Hugh L. Carey; Stanley Fink, the former Assembly speaker, who died in 1997; and Warren M. Anderson, the former Senate majority leader, who died in 2007.
''I remember sitting there watching them, saying, you know what, maybe one day I could do this,'' he said.
Mr. Cuomo was joined as he took the oath by his girlfriend, the Food Network star Sandra Lee; his three daughters; his mother, Matilda; and his father, who, he said, ''taught me everything I know.''
The inauguration brought the extended Cuomo clan back to Albany, with nieces, nephews, siblings and cousins bearing a resemblance to the new governor roaming the halls of the Capitol. In his speech, Mr. Cuomo avoided reciting a roll call of his kin, explaining, ''I have so many family members here today, if I start to point them out I'll miss someone, and there'll be a whole family disturbance come the next holiday time.''
Mr. Cuomo is also moving, at least part time, into the Executive Mansion, where his parents lived for a dozen years. Asked by a reporter after the ceremony whether it felt odd to be occupying his parents' old bedroom, he responded, laughing: ''I could answer that, but I won't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo with his daughter Michaela after the small inauguration ceremony. At right is Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, seated at the far end of the table, during a cabinet meeting in the Red Room at the Capitol. He held the meeting before the inauguration, calling Saturday a working day.(POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); ETHICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



36 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths VOJTA, GEORGE J

 BODY:
VOJTA--George J. Born November 13, 1935, died peacefully on December 22, 2010. He is survived by his wife, Susan Hubbard, sons Christopher and Timothy, grandchildren George II, Charles and Grace, and daughters-in-law Deneen and Amber. He received Bachelors and Masters Degrees from Yale University. He spent most of his career at Citigroup -- then First National City Bank -- where he rose to Executive Vice President. 
Most notably, he ran Strategic Planning and the International Division. The remainder of his career was spent at top-tier financial institutions, in particular Bankers Trust, where he was Vice Chairman of the Board. He was known for his expertise in financial strategy and risk management. In addition, he played a prominent role in the restructuring of the global financial system and banking reform following the financial crises of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, consulting with the World Bank, the Bank for International Settlements, and individual countries. He also served as a board member of many distinguished enterprises, including: Northwest Airlines, Private Export Funding Corporation (PEFCO), Miles Laboratories and Urstadt-Biddle Properties. He was also a Director of the New York State Banking Board, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Fellow of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Chairman of the Financial Institutions Center of the Wharton School and Board Member of International Executive Service Corps. He was Chairman of the Board of the Yale Center for Corporate Governance & Performance, a Trustee of Lawrence Hospital, Founding Board Member of the Bronxville School Foundation, Chairman of the Bronxville Public Schools Long Range Planning Committee, Chairman of the Investment Committee for Sarah Lawrence College and member of the board of St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital. He advocated for financial standards and corporate reform throughout his career, writing numerous books and articles. His most well-known publications include the article "Bank Capital Adequacy" in 1974, the book "Beyond Human Scale" co-authored with Eli Ginsberg in 1983 and the book "Globalization for All" in 2010. After he retired, he founded the eStandardsForum, a formal platform for his advocacy. He was an avid golfer, fisherman, hunter and piano player. He was a member of The Blind Brook Club, Clove Valley Rod and Gun Club, The River Club, Siwanoy Country Club and The Lost Tree Club. He leaves behind a legacy of compassion and service. His family and friends will miss him. A Memorial Service will take place at the Reformed Church of Bronxville on Saturday, January 29 at 11:00am In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be sent in his name to the following: The Lawrence Hospital Cancer Center 55 Palmer Avenue Bronxville, NY 10708.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); AIRLINES (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); GOLF (60%); CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); PRIVATE EXPORT FUNDING CORP (69%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORPS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



37 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A Refinancing Alternative

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
HOMEOWNERS looking to lower their monthly mortgage payments and also save some on interest may be able to do so without all the hefty fees and daunting credit requirements of refinancing.
A little-known strategy, called ''recasting,'' or ''re-amortization,'' is available through some mortgage lenders and servicers.
It involves paying off a lump sum of the principal amount and asking to have the monthly payments reset according to the original interest rate and loan terms. The lump sum reduces the principal, so your new monthly payments decrease slightly and you save on interest paid over the life of the loan. 
Lenders typically charge an administrative fee of $150 or more for this service, though borrowers are not required to pay closing costs or submit to another credit check, because they are not asking for a new loan.
Recasting works well for those unable to qualify for refinancing amid the ever-toughening credit guidelines -- perhaps because they are self-employed or have less-than-stellar credit -- as well as for those with extra cash, like a year-end bonus.
''People don't really know about it,'' said Alan Rosenbaum, the founder and chief executive of the Guardhill Financial Corporation in New York, ''but it's become more common recently.''
Although the term ''recasting'' is often used by the mortgage industry to refer to interest-rate resets on adjustable-rate mortgages, here the interest rate and loan term stay the same.
Here's how it might work. Let's say that as of late December, you had just over $230,449 of principal left on a 30-year fixed-rate loan for $300,000 taken out at 7.93 percent in 1995. You have been paying just under $2,187 a month in principal and interest. But if you put in $20,000 toward that remaining principal and asked your lender to reamortize your payments over the remaining 15 years on the loan, your monthly payment would drop by $184, to around $2,002. Putting in $100,000 would save $945 a month and bring payments to $1,241.
Making extra payments toward the principal while not asking the bank to recast a loan keeps monthly payments the same and merely shortens the time it takes to pay off the loan.
There are a few caveats to recasting, however. The first is that you may need to have a large sum on hand. JPMorgan Chase, for example, charges a $150 fee and requires a minimum $5,000 payment toward the principal.
Another issue is having a lender, or loan servicer, that offers the service. And even those that do may impose restrictions. JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America exclude loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs, and loans that were sold off and securitized may also need investor approval.
While few if any lenders advertise recasting, ''they are trying to become more customer-service-oriented, and they will do it on a case-by-case basis,'' Mr. Rosenbaum said. Homeowners should contact their lender's customer service department.
Lenders, which would probably rather earn thousands of dollars in closing fees from refinancing your loan, are not obliged to recast mortgages. And certain types of mortgages, for example interest-only and adjustable-rate loans, usually aren't eligible. The borrower will also need to have been current with all mortgage payments to qualify.
Edward Ades, the owner of Universal Mortgage in Brooklyn, says recasting can be especially useful to recent buyers, for whom it makes little financial sense to refinance but who expect to receive a tax refund or other substantial money after closing on their property, like proceeds from a relative's sale of property, stocks or other assets.
If your interest rate is 5 percent or lower, Mr. Ades added, it may not make sense to recast a loan, because the extra cash could be put into an investment with a higher return. ''At the end of the day,'' he said, ''I always tell people they have to do whatever makes them sleep better.''
Correction: January 16, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Mortgages column on Jan. 2 about ''recasting'' a mortgage, an alternative to refinancing, misstated the amount by which monthly payments would drop, based on how much of the remaining principal on the loan was paid down. If you put in $20,000, the payment would drop by $184 (not $52), to around $2,002 (not $2,135). And putting in $100,000 would save $945 (not $730) a month and bring payments to $1,241 (not $1,457).

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2011



38 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Prosperity, Real or Imagined

BYLINE: By NANCY F. KOEHN

 BODY:
''THE past is never dead,'' William Faulkner wrote in 1951. ''It's not even past.'' Six decades later, R. Christopher Whalen takes up the gauntlet implied in those words in ''Inflated: How Money and Debt Built the American Dream'' (John Wiley & Sons, $34.95).
Mr. Whalen, a consultant and former investment banker, marches zealously back in time to try to understand the long-term viability of the American economy in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. 
The author sees a conflict at the heart of Americans' attitudes toward money and debt. We tend to view ourselves ''as reasonably prudent and sober people,'' he writes, while ''the choices we make at the ballot box seem to be at odds with that self-image.''
''As a nation,'' he says, ''we seem to feel entitled to a national agenda and standard of living that is beyond our current income.''
To finance these expectations, we have continued to borrow extensively from the future -- think subprime mortgages, household credit card balances, the federal debt, the trade deficit and more -- with turbulent and, at times, nearly disastrous results.
With that as his starting point, Mr. Whalen sets out on a high-speed chase through specific moments in the nation's economic and political history: the longstanding debate about a national bank in the late 18th and early 19th centuries; the issuance of paper money to finance the Union effort during the Civil War; the panic of 1893 and resulting depression; the government debt issued to finance both world wars; and the stagflation and the changing world order that began in the 1970s.
In each of these instances, Mr. Whalen bemoans Americans' reliance on paper money and debt financing -- a reliance, he contends, that is often fostered to expand political, business and financial leaders' power and wealth.
The book is lively and opinionated throughout. In the first half, which runs roughly up to World War I, the author recounts the long-simmering debate, initiated by Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson, about the benefits and costs of consolidated financial power. He also criticizes Abraham Lincoln for ''taking the United States down the road to political control over the nature of money via the Legal Tender Act of 1862,'' which authorized the federal government to pay its bills in paper money not backed by an equal amount of gold or silver.
And his descriptions of the enormous -- and, at times, audacious -- power of J. P. Morgan and others in the Gilded Age call to mind bankers in some of our largest financial institutions today.
But when the book turns in its second half to the 20th century, it is less successful. It appears so intent on impugning government indebtedness and what it sees as sloppy monetary management that it seems to lose sight of the larger historical context and the importance of presenting plenty of supporting evidence for its passionate contentions.
Mr. Whalen argues that America's present-day troubles date back to the days when it entered World War I. Decision makers -- public and private -- chose to finance the war's cost through an enormous increase in the federal debt. In an easy, almost painless way, ''the country accepted the idea of prosperity via borrowing,'' he writes.
This is a thought-provoking but somewhat narrow reading of history. It is nigh impossible for any power to finance a major war without raising debt -- usually lots of debt. Always has been. Given the importance of these choices to Mr. Whalen's larger argument, he should deal much more fully with the imperatives confronting the crucial actors. He could also offer more supporting evidence that big increases in federal indebtedness translated into collective acceptance of a prosperity achieved through borrowing.
In his eyes, such acceptance aggravated the Great Depression, ushering in the New Deal -- which he calls the ''rise of the corporate state.'' The attitude also encouraged deficit spending, driving what he calls ''an underlying rate of inflation that has steadily sapped the purchasing power of the dollar.''
The book is on thin ice here. Explaining the causes of the Depression and its larger legacy is one of the thorniest, most crowded topics in economic history. Mr. Whalen should bring much more support to bear on his particular reading of history and present such evidence more systematically.
The aftermath of World War II witnessed continued federal government intervention in the economy. ''Members of both major political parties in the United States,'' Mr. Whalen writes, ''became convinced that deficit spending would employ unused resources, correct market failures and produce optimal economic results.''
In the final chapters, the author recounts the emergence of stagflation in the 1970s and describes several downturns since 1980. In recent decades, he writes, financial and economic trends ''have merely confirmed the pattern set in the preceding years, with public-sector debt and other government obligations, and inflation, growing at a pace much faster than the real economy.''
Mr. Whalen concludes that we need to develop frameworks that distinguish between ''real economic growth and the illusions of growth created by inflation and credit-driven speculation.''
We have borrowed heavily against the future to fund our historically high standard of living, he says -- a standard that we have not previously been willing to finance in real time, through fiscal austerity or more household industry.
Much of this borrowing has been from foreign lenders, who may not always be willing to finance American consumption, he points out. ''Do we have the courage,'' he asks, ''to lead another global discussion with other nations about the dollar and America's infatuation with inflation and debt?''
Mr. Whalen raises timely, important issues. But he might have made his case for financial responsibility and prudent monetary oversight with a slower, more careful reading of American political and economic history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); WRITERS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CIVIL WAR (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); WORLD WAR I (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%)

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (58%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (58%); JWA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Inflated (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



39 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MT; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: The Actor as Architect of a Role

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
AS a boy, from the age of about 9 until well into his teens, the actor Javier Bardem would often help his mother, Pilar, an actress well known in Spain, learn her roles. At their home in Madrid she would hand him a script and then read her lines out loud while he read all the others.
''I watched my mother act all my life, and yet I wasn't attracted to acting as such,'' he recalled recently. ''What attracted me was my mother's effort, her dedication, the seriousness of the work, the desire to do something. But what that something was didn't matter to me. It could just as well have been painting or writing or even rugby.''
Nevertheless, at the age of 41, Mr. Bardem finds himself one of the world's most admired actors, with one Academy Award to his name -- for best supporting actor in Joel and Ethan Coen's ''No Country for Old Men'' -- and the possibility of another looming on the horizon. Leading directors regularly offer him juicy parts, and he has worked in widely varied roles with many of the most distinguished names in film, including Pedro Almodovar, Woody Allen, Milos Forman and Terrence Malick. 
''I think the best actors are those who are not only talented, but work harder than anybody else, and that's Javy,'' said the director and painter Julian Schnabel, who gave Mr. Bardem his breakout English-language role in ''Before Night Falls'' a decade ago. ''That's his barometer. He's got a deep interior life going on, but he's so immersed in the thing he does, with such concentration, with so many different buttons he can press, from humor to despair, that he becomes that, and it doesn't even look like he is acting.''
But nothing, according to Mr. Bardem, has ever tested him -- physically and mentally -- or required greater effort and dedication more than ''Biutiful,'' a drama, directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, which won Mr. Bardem the best actor award when it was first shown at Cannes last May and opened in New York and Los Angeles on Wednesday. ''For me 'Biutiful' is going to represent a before and after,'' he said in an interview last month in New York.
In ''Biutiful,'' set entirely in Barcelona, Mr. Bardem plays Uxbal, a petty criminal and doting father of two whose world, built around immigrant smuggling and the manufacture of fake luxury goods, begins to collapse when he learns he is seriously ill. Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu, whose previous films include ''21 Grams'' and ''Babel,'' said he wrote the part specifically for Mr. Bardem, the first time he had ever cast a role in advance.
''Physically Javier possesses an attraction that is tremendously magnetic and kinetic,'' Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu said. ''On the one hand, he has the primitive force of the minotaur, the strength of a bull crossed with a man, along with a face that contains the essence of the Mediterranean, that looks like it could be that of a Caesar on a Roman coin. But he also has the sensibility of a poet, an inner subtlety and emotional baggage, and it is those two sets of qualities that made him so particularly fitting to play this character.''
Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu shoots his films with scenes in chronological order, which is unusual in the movie business, and has been known to demand 50 or more takes from his actors. Mr. Bardem knew that going into ''Biutiful'' but still found the process unusually exhausting, and not just because he injured his back in a sequence that required him to lift another actor and was in pain throughout the second half of the five-month shoot.
Because the scenes were shot in the order in which they play and his character has to come to terms with the possibility of his own demise, Mr. Bardem said he had to ''keep holding in the emotional intensity.'' Or as Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu put it, ''Javier had to find a balance while surrendering totally to a role that required him to be completely charged up while showing very little, and that, emotionally, is very arduous.''
Mr. Bardem often seems to be acting intuitively, especially in critically acclaimed films in which his characters face death, like ''Biutiful,'' ''The Sea Inside'' and ''Before Night Falls.'' But he describes his work as meticulously plotted in advance and in detail. Asked about a pair of especially moving moments in ''Biutiful'' in which his character, wrestling with mortality, does not speak at all, Mr. Bardem reached for a sheet of paper and proceeded to diagram the stages into which he had divided the two scenes.
''A character is like a building,'' he explained. ''I've never studied architecture, but I imagine that first you have to prepare the plans, lay down the base, a solid base that has to do with the character, and from there build it up. Once this is all clear, you can add the details: I want blue walls, I want wood floors, I want him to speak this way or move like that. But first you have to think.''
Another sign of the seriousness with which he approaches his craft is that, despite the growing acclaim for his body of work, he continues to study with an acting coach, Juan Carlos Corazza, an Argentine. They have worked together nearly 20 years, since the beginning of Mr. Bardem's career. In a telephone interview from Madrid, where he lives, Mr. Corazza said that Mr. Bardem not only consults with him as he prepares for each role but also attends his classes and workshops, where he is sometimes matched with beginning actors.
''Part of the work in preparing for his roles is always at the table, where we analyze the script, each word and each phrase, to try to understand the mind of that other person,'' he explained. But Mr. Corazza also has Mr. Bardem do exercises designed to ''prepare the canvas for painting'' by ''identifying and stripping away the habits, cliches and artificial aspects between him and the character, so he has the courage to find a freedom in his character.''
In a sense Mr. Bardem seems almost to have been predestined for a life as an actor. In addition to his mother, both of his maternal grandparents also were prominent actors, and one of his uncles, Juan Antonio Bardem, was a distinguished screenwriter and director (and Spanish Communist Party leader), perhaps best known for the film ''Death of a Cyclist''
But Mr. Bardem tried at first to resist being pulled into the family trade. He played rugby as a boy, relentlessly and passionately, which gave him the broken bones to show for it and instilled the sense of teamwork that directors uniformly praise. When it came time to choose a career, however, he initially decided to go to art school, intending to become a painter.
To earn money for his studies he did small acting jobs on the side, adopting his mother's surname rather than that of his father, Encinas, as would have been more customary. But in his art classes he discovered that while he seemed to have talent, the only thing he wanted to draw was ''faces, eyes, expressions and bodies,'' not landscapes or abstract works.
He concluded that his primary interest really was how human beings express emotions. And at that point, around the age of 18, the Bardem family tradition, and all the years observing his mother, gave him something to draw on and inspire himself.
''I didn't like having to read the other characters,'' he recalled. ''What fascinated me was listening to her. She'd have a great script with a monologue and would begin to speak and then stop and correct herself. She'd go back to the beginning, and that's the way it was for the entire work. So after an hour or so of the technical aspects, the memorization, she would fly. She knew the text, she had control, the actress would appear, and off she would go.''
The lesson he drew from that experience, he said, was that ''to get to the art, one must work very hard.'' He added: ''Art doesn't exist just as talent. It exists as effort, work and judgment.''
In keeping with that philosophy, Mr. Bardem said, nowadays he chooses roles based not on their size or the chances for acclaim they might offer, but on the degree of the challenge they present. That's the kind of thing that actors always say of course. But Mr. Bardem's track record suggests he means it.
The director Fernando Leon de Aranoa, a friend of Mr. Bardem's, recalled: ''When we were getting ready for 'Mondays in the Sun,' '' a Spanish film about unemployed shipyard workers, ''he had just been nominated for an Oscar for the first time, for 'Before Night Falls,' and every time his phone rang, it was with a proposal to be part of a production that, in terms of money and fame, was more important than mine. I thought it was logical that he would take one of those, but he said to me, 'I really like this character' and remained firm. That's an honesty that I like.''
If anything, Mr. Bardem may be more focused than ever. In the past, he admitted, he played as hard as he worked. But his recent marriage to the actress Penelope Cruz, with whom he worked first on the 1992 hit ''Jamon, Jamon'' and most recently on Mr. Allen's ''Vicky Cristina Barcelona,'' and the impending birth of their first child seem to have brought a stability and depth to his work and life.
''I think that professionally he is now in a place where he feels greater security and a larger sense of freedom to do less, and be more the character and not force things,'' Mr. Corazza, his acting coach, said. ''It's a very rich time for him right now personally too, a moment in which he is enjoying love and its fruits and has reached a level of maturity in which he thinks less of himself and more of others.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Javier Bardem in New York in December. For his work in his latest film, ''Biutiful,'' right (with Guillermo Estrella, left, and Hanaa Bouchaib) -- in which he plays a petty crook and father of two -- he won the award for best actor at Cannes in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSE HARO) (MT4)
 Javier Bardem and Belen Rueda in ''The Sea Inside'' (2004), directed by Alejandro Amenabar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERESA ISASI/FINE LINE FEATURES) (MT9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (73%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (58%) SPAIN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



40 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Promises Emergency Plan On Finance Woes

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Elizabeth A. Harris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Andrew Mark Cuomo became the 56th governor of New York on Saturday, promising to immediately take on the state's huge financial problems and to fight to limit taxes on homeowners across the state.
In his inaugural address, Mr. Cuomo said he would unveil an emergency financial plan this week -- a month before his first budget proposal is due -- and push aggressively for stronger ethics enforcement in Albany.
''There is no more time to waste,'' Mr. Cuomo, 53, said in a 25-minute speech, his voice often rising. ''It is a time for deeds, not words, and results, not rhetoric. It is time for a bold agenda and immediate action. There is no more waiting for tomorrow, and there are no more baby steps, my friends.'' 
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, pledged to approach his job with ''constructive impatience,'' shrink the size of the sprawling state government, and represent the interests of those who have lost faith in Albany.
He emphasized his plan to cap the growth of local property taxes, a particular concern to suburban and rural residents. That proposal is already setting off worry among local officials and some public-employee unions, who say that it will result in deep spending cuts in cities and towns.
Mr. Cuomo described residents as being imprisoned in their homes, which are losing value even as their tax bills keep climbing.
''Nothing is going up in their lives,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''Their income isn't going up, their banking account isn't going up, their savings aren't going up. They can't afford the never-ending tax increases in the state of New York, and this state has no future if it is going to be the tax capital of the nation.''
His first moves as governor were symbolic: Mr. Cuomo declared that he would remove the concrete barriers that have surrounded the Capitol building since the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks; within minutes of his speech, workers began loading the barriers onto a flatbed truck.
He also opened a historic hallway outside the governor's office that Gov. George E. Pataki had closed off to the public.
''To get into this Capitol is like running an obstacle course, and it shouldn't be,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''People refer to the Capitol as a fort or as a bunker, and it is anything but. This is a beautiful monument to democracy, this building. This is the people's meeting place, and they should be invited in. And today, my friends, we will reopen the Capitol, literally and figuratively.''
Mr. Cuomo is taking office at a time when the state faces daunting problems and the public expresses little confidence that its political leaders can solve them. A parade of government officials and lawmakers have admitted or been found guilty of abusing their office for personal gain; the governor and comptroller elected in 2006 resigned their offices amid scandal.
Mr. Cuomo must grapple with a $9 billion budget deficit and a divided and perennially dysfunctional Legislature.
''People all across the state, when you mention state government, literally are shaking their heads,'' he said. ''Worse than no confidence, what they're saying is no trust. The words 'government in Albany' have become a national punch line, and the joke is on us.''
Much remains in flux in Mr. Cuomo's nascent administration. At least for now, Mr. Cuomo is relying on his predecessor's budget director, and he has yet to fill the state's top economic post.
Aides to Mr. Cuomo would not provide details about the financial plan he will present in an address to the Legislature on Wednesday; the governor referred to the proposal as an ''emergency financial reinvention plan.'' But in recent months, Mr. Cuomo has vowed to shrink the number of state agencies by one-fifth and to make substantial cuts to the state's Medicaid program, the most costly in the nation.
To underscore the seriousness of the situation he confronts, Mr. Cuomo eschewed any galas after his inauguration, and instead held a cabinet meeting in the morning, before the ceremony, calling Saturday a regular working day.
''In my administration this is going to be the way it works,'' he said. ''When we actually do something and perform and help the people of New York State and make government function, then we're going to have a big party and celebrate, and not before.''
Still, there were moments of warmth and humor. And interestingly, in an era when politicians often decry the culture of government, Mr. Cuomo embraced the state's history, saying he was inspired by his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and the men his father worked alongside. He cited former Gov. Hugh L. Carey; Stanley Fink, the former Assembly speaker, who died in 1997; and Warren M. Anderson, the former Senate majority leader, who died in 2007.
''I remember sitting there watching them, saying, you know what, maybe one day I could do this,'' he said.
Mr. Cuomo was joined as he took the oath by his girlfriend, the Food Network star Sandra Lee; his three daughters; his mother, Matilda; and his father, who, he said, ''taught me everything I know.''
The inauguration brought the extended Cuomo clan back to Albany, with nieces, nephews, siblings and cousins bearing a resemblance to the new governor roaming the halls of the Capitol. In his speech, Mr. Cuomo avoided reciting a roll call of his kin, explaining, ''I have so many family members here today, if I start to point them out I'll miss someone, and there'll be a whole family disturbance come the next holiday time.''
Mr. Cuomo is also moving, at least part time, into the Executive Mansion, where his parents lived for a dozen years. Asked by a reporter after the ceremony whether it felt odd to be occupying his parents' old bedroom, he responded, laughing: ''I could answer that, but I won't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo with his daughter Michaela after the small inauguration ceremony. At right is Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, seated at the far end of the table, during a cabinet meeting in the Red Room at the Capitol. He held the meeting before the inauguration, calling Saturday a working day.(POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); ETHICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



41 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; SUSTAINABLE LOVE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: The Happy Marriage Is the 'Me' Marriage

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
A lasting marriage does not always signal a happy marriage. Plenty of miserable couples have stayed together for children, religion or other practical reasons.
But for many couples, it's just not enough to stay together. They want a relationship that is meaningful and satisfying. In short, they want a sustainable marriage.
''The things that make a marriage last have more to do with communication skills, mental health, social support, stress -- those are the things that allow it to last or not,'' says Arthur Aron, a psychology professor who directs the Interpersonal Relationships Laboratory at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. ''But those things don't necessarily make it meaningful or enjoyable or sustaining to the individual.'' 
The notion that the best marriages are those that bring satisfaction to the individual may seem counterintuitive. After all, isn't marriage supposed to be about putting the relationship first?
Not anymore. For centuries, marriage was viewed as an economic and social institution, and the emotional and intellectual needs of the spouses were secondary to the survival of the marriage itself. But in modern relationships, people are looking for a partnership, and they want partners who make their lives more interesting.
Caryl Rusbult, a researcher at Vrije University in Amsterdam who died last January, called it the ''Michelangelo effect,'' referring to the manner in which close partners ''sculpt'' each other in ways that help each of them attain valued goals.
Dr. Aron and Gary W. Lewandowski Jr., a professor at Monmouth University in New Jersey, have studied how individuals use a relationship to accumulate knowledge and experiences, a process called ''self-expansion.'' Research shows that the more self-expansion people experience from their partner, the more committed and satisfied they are in the relationship.
To measure this, Dr. Lewandowski developed a series of questions for couples: How much has being with your partner resulted in your learning new things? How much has knowing your partner made you a better person? (Take the full quiz measuring self-expansion.)
While the notion of self-expansion may sound inherently self-serving, it can lead to stronger, more sustainable relationships, Dr. Lewandowski says.
''If you're seeking self-growth and obtain it from your partner, then that puts your partner in a pretty important position,'' he explains. ''And being able to help your partner's self-expansion would be pretty pleasing to yourself.''
The concept explains why people are delighted when dates treat them to new experiences, like a weekend away. But self-expansion isn't just about exotic experiences. Individuals experience personal growth through their partners in big and small ways. It happens when they introduce new friends, or casually talk about a new restaurant or a fascinating story in the news.
The effect of self-expansion is particularly pronounced when people first fall in love. In research at the University of California at Santa Cruz, 325 undergraduate students were given questionnaires five times over 10 weeks. They were asked, ''Who are you today?'' and given three minutes to describe themselves. They were also asked about recent experiences, including whether they had fallen in love.
After students reported falling in love, they used more varied words in their self-descriptions. The new relationships had literally broadened the way they looked at themselves.
''You go from being a stranger to including this person in the self, so you suddenly have all of these social roles and identities you didn't have before,'' explains Dr. Aron, who co-authored the research. ''When people fall in love that happens rapidly, and it's very exhilarating.''
Over time, the personal gains from lasting relationships are often subtle. Having a partner who is funny or creative adds something new to someone who isn't. A partner who is an active community volunteer creates new social opportunities for a spouse who spends long hours at work.
Additional research suggests that spouses eventually adopt the traits of the other -- and become slower to distinguish differences between them, or slower to remember which skills belong to which spouse.
In experiments by Dr. Aron, participants rated themselves and their partners on a variety of traits, like ''ambitious'' or ''artistic.'' A week later, the subjects returned to the lab and were shown the list of traits and asked to indicate which ones described them.
People responded the quickest to traits that were true of both them and their partner. When the trait described only one person, the answer came more slowly. The delay was measured in milliseconds, but nonetheless suggested that when individuals were particularly close to someone, their brains were slower to distinguish between their traits and those of their spouses.
''It's easy to answer those questions if you're both the same,'' Dr. Lewandowski explains. ''But if it's just true of you and not of me, then I have to sort it out. It happens very quickly, but I have to ask myself, 'Is that me or is that you?' ''
It's not that these couples lost themselves in the marriage; instead, they grew in it. Activities, traits and behaviors that had not been part of their identity before the relationship were now an essential part of how they experienced life.
All of this can be highly predictive for a couple's long-term happiness. One scale designed by Dr. Aron and colleagues depicts seven pairs of circles. The first set is side by side. With each new set, the circles begin to overlap until they are nearly on top of one another. Couples choose the set of circles that best represents their relationship. In a 2009 report in the journal Psychological Science, people bored in their marriages were more likely to choose the more separate circles. Partners involved in novel and interesting experiences together were more likely to pick one of the overlapping circles and less likely to report boredom. ''People have a fundamental motivation to improve the self and add to who they are as a person,'' Dr. Lewandowski says. ''If your partner is helping you become a better person, you become happier and more satisfied in the relationship.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HEADS OF STATE): CHART: Overlap = Happy? Psychologists ask couples to choose pairs of circles to depict them in their relationship. The more a partner broadens your horizons ... the more likely your circles will overlap. (SOURCE: ARTHUR ARON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



42 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Critics' Picks for the Year: Hot Cars in a Cool Economy

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AFTER some rough years for the auto industry, when retrenchment drastically reduced the number of new cars and trucks reaching market, the garage door opened a bit wider in 2010. 
The luxury market perked up and the ranks of car-based crossovers continued to grow. Impressive new alternative-fuel cars began to trickle into dealerships. And in the market for high-performance machines, horsepower figures ratcheted ever higher, seemingly oblivious to the looming fuel economy rules that are likely to reshape the industry.
As each year passes, writers for these pages comb through their notebooks for a recap of the cars and trucks that impressed them most in the previous 12 months.
The lists presented here are not intended to be comprehensive; there are not enough days in the year to evaluate every new model. And our farflung reviewers do not necessarily drive the same cars: particular models are not always available in some places. For example, the redesigned Ford Explorer is just reaching dealerships; Chevrolet has not made its Volt available in New York for unchaperoned testing.
As with all such ''best of'' lists, the exercise is an opportunity to go beyond the nuts and bolts of assessing whether a car is worth a potential customer's consideration and to consider its emotional appeal. (For most of us, don't emotions play a role in the purchase of a car?)
As with buying a home, sometimes a car just feels right. And when it does, it lingers in the memory -- and on the lists of critics' favorites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



43 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Whether to Buy or Rent

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
IN today's market, with uncertainty the sole certainty up ahead, the age-old question -- rent or buy? -- becomes increasingly perplexing.
For example, in New Jersey, where average home values rose slightly only to drop precipitously last year, and where an additional 6 percent overall decline is predicted for 2011, is it even possible to discern which choice might be better?
Yes, said one market expert, after he crunched fresh numbers. Despite unusually severe fluctuations and distress in the New Jersey marketplace, the analyst, Jeffrey G. Otteau, concluded that it is a better deal to buy, as long as one holds on to the property for several years. 
Using calculations based on sales data, Mr. Otteau deduced the following: After four years, the buyer of a $400,000 home, putting 3 percent down and obtaining a mortgage at 4.83 percent, will start to come out ahead of a renter paying $2,000 a month.
The gain in the fourth year is only about $7,000, once expenditures on maintenance, insurance, taxes and mortgage are figured in, said Mr. Otteau, whose company, the Otteau Valuation Group, provides monthly trend reports to the real estate industry.
But after 10 years, and assuming a 2.5 percent average increase in value, the homeowner comes out $97,516 ahead.
A property value increase of that amount per year is a ''very conservative'' prediction, Mr. Otteau said, and several brokers in the northern part of the state agreed with him.
''If you buy a good property in a stable community,'' said Karen Eastman Bigos, who heads the Towne Realty Group in Millburn, ''with today's bargain prices and interest rates, it is virtually guaranteed that value will rise by more than that.''
Statewide over the last decade, values increased by an annualized average of 4.8 percent, despite the price declines of the last three years, Mr. Otteau said.
''Going back to 1972, when this kind of record-keeping first began,'' he added, ''prices have increased by an annualized average of 4.9 percent. So the big, broad average for close to 60 years has been an increase of approximately twice as much as we are estimating for the purpose of this calculation.''
If average sale values remained the same for the next decade, while rental rates rose by 2.5 percent each year, renters would come out ahead of buyers, Mr. Otteau said.
''However,'' he added flatly, ''that's not going to happen.''
If values appreciated by 5 percent annually, the buyer of the $400,000 home would gain $138,081 over the renter in 10 years. Mr. Otteau said similar results would generally hold true across the price spectrum.
The calculations indicated that a buyer making a 10 percent down payment would gain slightly less than a buyer paying 3 percent -- mostly because of the home mortgage deduction on income taxes. (With a larger mortgage comes a larger deduction.)
But, noted Roberta Baldwin, a broker with Keller Williams Realty in Montclair, not all decisions about whether to rent or buy are made on the basis of finances. ''Lifestyle figures in heavily,'' she said, ''and so does availability.''
''More buyers are turning into renters,'' she added, ''because everyone is ultracautious about buying now, but the fact is there aren't all that many great rentals available in this area.''
This is the sort of intangible that does not show up in Mr. Otteau's calculations. Also, the space that comes with a $400,000 home is significantly different from that to be expected in a $2,000 rental, he said.
One example from West Orange is a 2,269-square-foot house at 76 Winding Way that is for sale at $400,000, after seven months on the market and several price reductions. The house, a 60-year-old Cape Cod, has three bedrooms and two and a half baths, and it sits on 0.18 acre.
By comparison, a three-bedroom two-bath unit at Crest Ridge, a building with a pool and landscaped gardens, rents for $1,920; it offers 1,325 square feet.
Two couples who recently settled in Jersey City -- one pair buyers, the other renters -- said they had made their choices primarily out of a desire to live in new buildings with easier commutes to Manhattan.
Sarah Lane and Luis Ribagorda, married dancers with the American Ballet Theater, had been renters in Manhattan and then Union City when they saw prices falling and felt ''a strong impulse to buy,'' Ms. Lane said. They were the first buyers at the glass-walled Crystal Point tower when it opened early last year, with prices discounted even before the building was complete.
At 26 and 27, they did not have enough credit history to qualify for the lowest possible loan rate, Ms. Lane said, but they were able to put 20 percent down, so their monthly payment would be as low as possible. ''My husband saw this beautiful building, with a very prestigious location right on the waterfront, between two PATH stations,'' she said, ''and right away he was convinced it would have great resale value.''
Even with the gloomy economy, Ms. Lane said, the couple are convinced they made a smart investment.
Camille and Michael Adams, both 54, decided they were willing to pay somewhat more per month in rent than they had been paying on the mortgage for their 1,700-square foot house in Hempstead, on Long Island. They leased a two-bedroom in the 225 Grand, which opened last fall.
The Jersey City location reduced Mrs. Adams's commute to Manhattan to 20 minutes from 90, and she says it has also shortened travel to their daughter's place in Pennsylvania.
''I think renting is the smart choice at our age,'' Mrs. Adams said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIVING SPACE: In West Orange, a three-bedroom house for sale at Winding Way, top, has 2,269 square feet. A three-bedroom rental at Crest Ridge has 1,325 square feet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES LEYNSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TRENDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



44 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: WALLOPED DEC. 26 - JAN. 7

 BODY:
THE NEWS A powerful storm system produced blizzard conditions up and down the East Coast for a day and a half, dumping heavy snow from the Carolinas to maritime Canada, with New York and the rest of the Northeast taking the brunt. Twenty inches of snow fell in Central Park, and some suburbs got as much as 32 inches. 
BEHIND THE NEWS Officials in some areas, including New York City, seemed to be caught unprepared for the storm's ferocity. Travel by air, rail or road was severely disrupted, with service shut down and passengers stranded for hours in stalled trains, packed terminals and stuck vehicles as crews struggled to cope with the snow.
THE NEWS The New York region's three major airports shut down, leading to the cancellation of 4,500 arriving and departing flights. The ripple effect was felt across the country and as far away as Paris.
BEHIND THE NEWS The backlog was so great that it took days to catch up. Kennedy International Airport became a campsite of travelers. Families rested on stacks of luggage and slept on the floor in sleeping bags. Worried about being stuck in Atlanta, Elizabeth Elliott, a travel administrator, flew to Columbus, Ohio, and Washington before taking Amtrak, then a cab to her New York apartment. ''You have to be dedicated if you want to get anywhere,'' she said.
THE NEWS The bad weather in the Northeast kept the usual post-holiday throngs out of the region's stores and malls on Sunday and Monday, denying retailers $1 billion in sales, or about 10 percent of the national total for the two days, according to estimates by ShopperTrak, a market research firm.
BEHIND THE NEWS The buying that snowbound Northeasterners failed to do was probably just postponed, not eliminated, according to Bill Martin, the firm's founder. Up until Christmas Eve, he said, the shopping season had been the strongest since before the recession began, and foot traffic was good in other regions -- just not good enough to offset the Northeast numbers.
THE NEWS In the storm's aftermath, New York City faced mounting criticism of its response, with scores of side streets left unplowed for days and long delays in restoring transportation service. Lives were lost and homes destroyed, according to reports, when ambulances and fire crews were unable to reach emergencies quickly.
BEHIND THE NEWS Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg admitted that City Hall's response was ''a lot worse'' than it had been after other storms and was not what ''the city has a right to expect.'' He said the city would hire contractors and hundreds of day laborers to catch up with snow removal, and promised a full review once the work was done.
THE NEWS Southern California suffered through its own weather crisis, as officials warned of a rising risk of mudslides and flooding after two weeks of historically heavy rains dangerously saturated the ground at the start of the semiarid region's rainy season, The Los Angeles Times reported.
BEHIND THE NEWS The storms piling in from the Pacific that produced the wettest December in Los Angeles since 1889 dropped up to 14 inches of rain on the hills around the city, washing out highways and damaging homes. Officials warned that subsurface soils would take months to dry out from the rainfall so far -- and more storms are forecast.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPING (77%); CITIES (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); CHRISTMAS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (63%); LANDSLIDES (50%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



45 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: When Innovation, Too, Is Made in China

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
AS a national strategy, China is trying to build an economy that relies on innovation rather than imitation. Clearly, its leaders recognize that being the world's low-cost workshop for assembling the breakthrough products designed elsewhere -- think iPads and a host of other high-tech goods -- has its limits.
So can China become a prodigious inventor? The answer, in truth, will play out over decades -- and go a long way toward determining not only China's future, but also the shape of the global economy. 
Clues to the Chinese approach emerge from a recent government document containing goals for drastically increasing the nation's production of patents. It offers a telling glimpse of how China intends to engineer a more innovative society.
The document, published in November by the State Intellectual Property Office of China, is called the ''National Patent Development Strategy (2011-2020).'' It discusses broad economic objectives as well as specific targets to be attained by 2015.
In a recent interview, David J. Kappos, director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, pointed to the Chinese targets for 2015 and called them ''mind-blowing numbers.''
According to a translation of the document provided by the patent office, China's goal for annual patent filings by 2015 is two million. That number includes ''utility-model patents,'' which typically cover items like engineering features in a product and are less ambitious than ''invention patents.'' In the American system, there are no utility patents.
In 2009, about 300,000 applications for utility patents were filed in China, roughly equal to its total of invention patents, which have been growing slightly faster than utility filings in recent years. But even if just half of China's total filings in 2015 are for invention patents, the national plan calls for a huge leap, to one million, by 2015. By contrast, patent filings in the United States totaled slightly more than 480,000 in the 12 months ended in September, according to the patent office.
China's patent surge has been evident for years. In October, Thomson Reuters issued a research report, forecasting that China would surpass the United States in patent filings in 2011. ''It's happening even faster than we expected,'' said Bob Stembridge, an intellectual-property analyst at Thomson Reuters.
Yet if the trend is not surprising, the ambition of the Chinese plan is striking. The document indicates, for example, that China intends to roughly double its number of patent examiners, to 9,000, by 2015. (The United States has 6,300 examiners.)
China also wants to double the number of patents that its residents and companies file in other countries. Recent Chinese filings in the United States, Mr. Kappos says, are mainly in fields that China has declared priorities for industrial strategy, including solar and wind energy, information technology and telecommunications, and battery and manufacturing technologies for automobiles.
To lift its patent count, China has introduced an array of incentives. They include cash bonuses, better housing for individual filers and tax breaks for companies that are prolific patent producers.
''The leadership in China knows that innovation is its future, the key to higher living standards and long-term growth,'' Mr. Kappos says. ''They are doing everything they can to drive innovation, and China's patent strategy is part of that broader plan.''
China's strategy is guided and sponsored by the state. Should that be a source of concern for the United States, and perhaps a trade issue? Or is the plan likely to resemble past efforts by other governments to give their companies an edge in global competition?
In the 1980s, the Japanese government was widely viewed as the master practitioner of industrial policy, and Japan Inc. seemed poised to overrun one American industry after another, including computers.
As we know, it didn't turn out that way, partly because of steps taken by the American government and industry. A semiconductor trade agreement was intended to pry open the Japanese market, and I.B.M. invested in a crucial but then-struggling supplier, Intel.
More important, however, Japan never became a force in a particularly unruly, imaginative side of computing: writing software. Generalizations are risky, but it seems that Japan, as a society, has not produced enough of that kind of innovative skill, despite being a formidable patent generator. (In that area, Japan is still slightly ahead of the United States by some measures, though Japan's patent filing pace is slowing.)
To call Japan's industrial policy an outright failure would be simplistic. In some industries -- autos, machine tools and consumer electronics, for example -- it has done quite well.
''They are still in the game in those industries and going gangbusters -- and we are not,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strategy Institute and a former United States trade negotiator. Still, just how strong a hand government policy had in those successes is open to debate.
The Chinese patent strategy document is filled with metrics, right down to goals for patents owned per million people. It speaks of an innovation-by-the-numbers mentality, much like a student who equates knowledge with scores on standardized tests.
''It is a brute-force approach at this stage, emphasizing the quantity of innovation assets more than the quality,'' said John Kao, an innovation consultant to governments and corporations.
But it would be a mistake, Mr. Kao said, to assume that China will necessarily follow a path similar to Japan's. China, he says, is not only much bigger than Japan, but it also has a more individualistic entrepreneurial society, despite its Communist government. Someday, he predicts, China will have its entrepreneurial equivalents of Steven P. Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg.
DESPITE China's inevitable rise, Mr. Kao said, the United States has a comparative advantage because it is the country most open to innovation. ''American culture, more than any other, forgives failure, tolerates risk and embraces uncertainty,'' Mr. Kao says.
Many innovative products and technologies, he says, will be made elsewhere. ''But America's future lies in being the orchestrator -- the systems integrator -- of the innovation process,'' Mr. Kao said. ''Look at Silicon Valley. It is a place where smart people from all nations, all languages and all ethnic groups come together. It's the capital of innovation assembly.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JENNIFER DANIEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TRENDS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (70%)

COMPANY: WRIGHT INVESTORS' SERVICE HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



46 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN SAYREVILLE, N.J.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: Long on Space, Water and Industry

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
ON the first Sunday in December, the St. Stanislaus Kostka School held its annual Christmas bazaar. Attendees sampled Polish specialties and bought chances to win prizes that included a 40-inch plasma television. Afterward, people filed outside to watch Sayreville's annual holiday parade, cheering on the bands and floats as they marched up Main Street and catching candy tossed by volunteer firefighters from their lighted-up trucks.
Baby boomers nostalgic for the settings and activities they grew up with need look no farther than Sayreville, a solidly middle-class community on the Raritan Bay in Middlesex County where events like St. Stanislaus's bazaar make up the fabric of life. From its manufacturing plants, to its downtown filled with mom-and-pop shops, to its ranches and split-levels, Sayreville seems anchored in an all-American past, at least to the casual observer. 
On closer inspection, however, there is evidence of modernity: town house developments; large industrial and corporate office parks; and larger homes that have sprung up throughout this 18.8-square-mile borough (2.8 miles of which are covered in water). Once home to the Sayre & Fisher Brick Company, for which the borough was named, and later to DuPont and Hercules chemical plants, Sayreville has had a largely industrial economy for most of its history. After those plants closed or scaled back, the borough became a bedroom community for New York City and North Jersey, helped by the highways and three bridges that connect it to points north, west and east.
This convenience was what brought June and Vincent Azzinaro to Sayreville almost 25 years ago, when their family was outgrowing their Staten Island apartment. But it was neighborliness that persuaded the Azzinaros to stay in town two years ago, when they wanted to move from their split-level, for which they had paid $135,000. They ended up paying $426,000 for a three-bedroom ranch just around the corner.
''People couldn't believe we moved just down the block,'' said Ms. Azzinaro, a retired fourth-grade teacher. ''But we knew this development, we knew how the houses were built, and we knew all the neighbors, which was great.''
Being less than half an hour from the shore has been another selling point. Sayreville's location, in what might be described as the inner elbow of New Jersey, may account for its population growth in the past two decades, to more than 42,000 from 35,000 in 1990.
It might also provide the rationale for situating what Joseph Ambrosio, the executive director of the Sayreville Economic and Redevelopment Agency, called the ''biggest active redevelopment project now going on in the state of New Jersey.'' The 453-acre, $2 billion waterfront project, called the Point at Sayreville, would add 2,000 housing units on the former National Lead Industries site on Raritan Bay. It would also have more than 3 million square feet of commercial space, including retail, a performing arts center, a hotel and a marina.
Planning dates to 1996, but with significant investment from the developers, O'Neill Properties, and with remediation of the former industrial site well under way, Mr. Ambrosio believes groundbreaking will happen in late 2011. As for the effect on the borough, he predicted the ''single greatest impact ever, since the Sayre brick factory started here almost 200 years ago.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Much of the residential development dates to the 1960s and early 1970s; Sayreville has the ranches, split-levels and Cape Cods to prove it. Unlike towns in North Jersey or at the Jersey Shore where many of these houses were replaced with larger ones, Sayreville still has much original stock. More recently the borough has added large town house and condominium developments, as well as pricier larger houses, which typically appear at the ends of streets in well-established neighborhoods.
Donna Tennaro, a broker at ERA Jersey Homes Realty who has lived in Sayreville for 24 years, described the borough's neighborhoods as distinctive. If you know where a person lives, she said, ''you know what kind of house the person has.''
''You live in Townelake, that's all big modern colonials; if you're in Oaktree West, some back up to the railroad tracks,'' she said. ''The President Park section is all Capes with basements; Laurel Park is all Capes without basements.''
Commercial stretches can be found along Main Street, MacArthur Avenue and the eastern end of Washington Road, where Sayreville War Memorial High School and Kennedy Park can also be found. Most industrial activity takes place at the western end of Washington Road and on Main Street Extension. One fixture there is the headquarters of the Sabert Corporation, an international food packaging producer.
That part of town is also home to the Faith Fellowship Ministries World Outreach Center, a 3,200-seat church.
Sayreville lays claim to pop-culture fame as the spot where the rocker Jon Bon Jovi learned to play the guitar. In fact, the house where that transformation took place is on the market, though it has been through several owners since the Bongiovi family owned it, according to Debra Brus of Weichert Realtors, the listing agent. Ms. Brus, who grew up in Sayreville, described clients interested in Sayreville as generally ''nice, hard-working people who want a family-oriented neighborhood.''
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
There are 157 single-family homes and 83 condominiums on the market. The average sale price of a house in 2010 was $315,284, according to Ms. Tennaro. In 2009, she said, it was $300,977. Condo averages went down slightly, to $253,038 in 2010, versus $266,889 in 2009, Ms. Tennaro said. Price variety is wide: from the mid-$100,000s, for smaller homes on narrow lots in the neighborhood known as Tangletown for its twisty roads, to the mid-$500,000s, for large colonials in Patriot Hill, a more recent K. Hovnanian Homes development.
Newer residents tend to come from Staten Island and Brooklyn, but there is also a lot of second-generation buying, as Sayreville remains affordable. One first-time owner is Ms. Brus's son, Michael, the manager of a Walgreens in Staten Island who early in 2009 bought a two-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath Cape Cod for $289,900. He had looked in Hazlet, Freehold and Hamilton Township, but his heart was in Sayreville.
''When we first walked in, it just felt like a very warm place,'' Mr. Brus, 32, said of his new house. ''Like a place where you could build a nice family.'' He and his fiancee, Carolynn Schultz, are expecting a child in April.
THE SCHOOLS
There are four public elementary schools: Emma L. Arleth, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Harry S. Truman and Woodrow Wilson. After third grade there is the Samsel Upper Elementary School, and after fifth there is the Sayreville Middle School. The Sayreville War Memorial High School serves 1,670 students in Grades 9 through 12. In 2010 it completed a $49 million expansion, which included 43 new classrooms, a new gym, a music suite, an auditorium and a cafeteria. SAT averages for the year ending in 2009 were 491 in math, 460 in reading and 471 in writing, versus 515, 494 and 494 statewide. St. Stanislaus Kostka School serves 241 students, and Our Lady of Victories serves 390; both are Catholic and run through Grade 8.
WHAT TO DO
Water is central to the leisure activities of many residents, who fish in the various lakes or canals that run through town, or drop their boats at the public launch at the end of River Road into the Raritan Bay to head out to the ocean. Beach lovers can get to Sandy Hook or Long Branch in about 35 minutes. And there is the Raritan Bay Waterfront Park, which sits on South Amboy's waterfront but belongs to Sayreville.
In town, much of the recreational activity takes place in John F. Kennedy Memorial Park, which has a milelong jogging trail, ball fields and a large stocked lake where a children's fishing derby is held each spring. In the summer there are open-air movies; in September, merchants and vendors hold Sayreville Community Day, providing rides and entertainment.
Washington Riding Stables on Range Road offers guided rides and lessons. A popular gathering place is Peterpank Diner on Route 9 north; Ms. Brus said she routinely went there with bowling teammates after a game. Many chain restaurants and big-box stores can be found on Routes 9 and 35 in Old Bridge.
THE COMMUTE
Highways include the Garden State Parkway and Routes 9, 18 and 35; the drive to New York City takes about 50 minutes. Commuters also use the park-and-ride station on Raritan Avenue and take a New Jersey Transit bus to the Port Authority for $11 one way. New Jersey Transit trains to Pennsylvania Station from South Amboy cost $12.25 one way and take 45 to 60 minutes.
THE HISTORY
First settled by the Navesink Indians, Sayreville was well situated to take advantage of the Raritan River's plentiful clay deposits; in the 19th century, the Sayre & Fisher Brick Company put it on the map. By the early 1900s, the company had become the nation's largest brick producer. Not long afterward, DuPont began making gunpowder, and later movie film and car paints. Sayreville became a township in 1876 and a borough in 1919.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON A THEME: If you know where a person lives in Sayreville, says Donna Tennaro, a broker, ''you know what kind of house the person has.'' Townelake, at left, is ''all big modern colonials.'' President Park is ''all Capes with basements''
 Laurel Park is ''all Capes without basements.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); CHEMICALS (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



47 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Seeks Dialogue With the South

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- In an annual New Year's commentary that is widely seen as an indicator of the country's political and economic goals for the coming year, North Korea on Saturday called for dialogue with South Korea and a relaxation of tensions ''as soon as possible.'' 
''If a war breaks out on this land, it will bring nothing but a nuclear holocaust,'' said the editorial, carried in the leading official newspapers in the North and read on state television there. The commentary, which called for ''an atmosphere of dialogue and cooperation'' with the South, was reported by local news agencies in Seoul.
Relations between the Koreas in recent months have been at their most strained since the end of the Korean War in 1953. In November, the North fired artillery at a South Korean island in a skirmish that killed two South Korean marines and two civilians. And South Korea followed that with several large and provocative military exercises, including joint maneuvers with an American aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea.
The North Korean editorial called for an end to those military drills and assailed the South's alliance with the ''war hawks'' of the United States.
North Korea, with the world's fourth-largest military, also cautioned that its armed forces remained on guard and would take ''prompt, merciless and annihilating action'' if necessary.
North Korea, China and Russia have called for a resumption of the six-party talks aimed at shutting down the North's nuclear programs. President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, despite his administration's hardening line against the North, recently endorsed a return to the talks in 2011. The United States and Japan are the other members of the six-party process, which fell apart in 2009 when North Korea withdrew.
The North's commentary on Saturday said it has been ''consistent in its stand and will to achieve peace in Northeast Asia and denuclearization of the whole of the Korean Peninsula.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) PACIFIC OCEAN (70%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



48 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; WHY CRITICISM MATTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Critic As Cultural Arbiter

BYLINE: By STEPHEN BURN


HIGHLIGHT: Stephen Burn is the author of ''David Foster Wallace's 'Infinite Jest': A Reader's Guide'' and ''Jonathan Franzen at the End of Postmodernism,'' and an editor of ''Intersections: Essays on Richard Powers.'' An associate professor at Northern Michigan University, he has written for The Paris Review, The Yale Review and The Times Literary Supplement, among other publications. He is writing a book about the novel in the age of neuroscience and is editing a volume of David Foster Wallace's letters about literature.

 BODY:
Fifty years is a long time in any national literature, but in the extreme environment of American culture, fiction seems to find an incubator for unusually rapid growth. A half-century takes us from the era of formulaic romances and Gothic novels to the metaphysical theater of ''Moby-Dick''; from Mark Twain working on his autobiography to John Barth's first novel. Yet across the 50 years since Alfred Kazin lectured about the function of the critic, academic literary criticism in America has arguably changed more than the modern novel, while the kind of critic that preoccupied Kazin -- one who writes for the public, ''lives in literature'' and tries to create standards -- now finds her function revised by technological changes that have reconfigured an audience that was once atomized by America's urban sprawl. 
''In the lonely pockets of towns and cities,'' Don DeLillo wrote in the early 1980s, ''a thousand minds tick.'' A decade or so later the commercialization of the Internet wove a network out of those minds, building a kind of massive neural web, a brain by turns conflicted, noisy, urgent. The Internet calls people out of their loneliness to create electronic selves perhaps more naked or strident than the fuzzy, compromised ''I'' that moves ghostlike through its everyday routines and disagreements. A solitary reader, brooding over an obscure contemporary novel, or slowly puzzling out a page of ''Finnegans Wake,'' is suddenly not so solitary. Amid the network of networks there is always another reader, an improvised community into which she can merge and make visible her invented self.
Seated on the cusp of the network revolution, the critic Sven Birkerts cataloged the losses that a reader in the electronic millennium would suffer: divorce from historical consciousness, a fragmented sense of time, a loss of deep concentration. From the other side of the divide, the ability to locate a cluster of like-minded people must seem a real gain to the reader who finds isolation uncomfortable rather than one of reading's fertile preconditions. Yet, however the economy of costs and benefits is calculated, the change in the technology that organizes the audience changes the rest of the writing world. Some writers may try to seal themselves off from the crackling energy of the Web, but the contemporary novel's form is always a model of the way our minds work, and it registers the deep changes in the ways we process data. Even more markedly than in the late 20th century, the serious contemporary novel withdraws from linearity, its narrative particles grouped into weblike clusters connected implicitly rather than explicitly, and its focus distributed across several characters. For the critic, these technological changes create deep historical echoes. If in earlier centuries the common reader was for Johnson and Woolf at least partly a rhetorical construction, an imagined nonspecialist that enabled their own work, for the critic at the millennium the audience for literature is not so shadowy. While Kazin could complain in 1960 that ''the audience doesn't know what it wants,'' with the advent of Amazon reviews and other rating sites the audience is abundantly vocal. A sensitive membrane has evolved from the historical transactions between author, critic and reader. Though online reviews inevitably vary in quality and insight, their very existence no longer makes it possible to imagine that there is not an engaged general-interest audience out there consuming and thinking about literary works. The audience now talks to itself.
The critic may not know who these readers are, but their existence seems indisputable, and the crystallization of the common reader changes the function of criticism in precise ways. The age of evaluation, of the Olympian critic as cultural arbiter, is over. While there are still critics out there, often at prominent publications, who like to issue dogmatic rulings (''The novel exists to ----------!'') and to chastise writers, their nostalgic efforts merely add to the noise of culture. Opinion in a distributed culture is abundantly, excessively, available, and as electronic self-construction accelerates the transformation of the private interior landscape into a Facebook page for public approval, personality becomes a debased currency. Less than six weeks after Jonathan Franzen's ''Freedom'' was published, Amazon offered more than 300 frankly polarized customer reviews. Thinking of reading Toni Morrison's ''Beloved''? Nearly 700 readers have an opinion they'd like to share with you. The electronic footprint of earlier readers and their opinions exerts its tyranny on the solitary transaction between book and reader, and so in mainstream reviewing it's time to hear less of critics talking about themselves, spinning reviews out of their charming memories or using the book under review as little more than a platform to promote themselves and their agendas. The critic ought to be an obscure, marginal figure, but I suspect that the tendency to overpersonalize a review stems from a sense among reviewers that part of their job has been usurped by the muddy aggregate of opinion that is everywhere available on a laptop somewhere near you.
The loss of a more centralized, univocal criticism is not necessarily a bad thing. Surely most readers (and probably a few authors) have seen reviews by prominent critics whose work is notoriously poisoned by personal prejudice, and guessed what pre-established verdict would be delivered to the work under review. Equally, I expect I'd have more confidence in the best nonspecialist readers than I do in some of their professional counterparts. In my short academic career I've been surprised, for instance, to discover professors of English who have lost interest in literature in favor of pursuing institutional power in the shape of administrative positions. And while the removal -- or more accurately, the redistribution -- of the evaluative task is likely to dilute critical standards, it can also free up the critic to engage in more serious tasks that might bleed back into the culture, providing a stronger skeleton for a range of literary activity. The critic who reviews contemporary novels now might valuably turn her attention to different kinds of vertical or horizontal mapping. By vertical mapping, I mean that larger frames than the personal might be brought to bear in reviews, with more effort taken to think of genres within less narrow, rigid borders. I sometimes fear that a narrow artistic palette can be mistaken for critical standards, and I believe it's past time to dispense with prejudices about character, emotivity and realism that hardened during the 19th century: a strongly realist character-based novel isn't a bad thing, but it isn't the only thing. A contemporary novel offers an opportunity to measure fiction's mutating forms -- to note, perhaps, the dominance of time as a thematic obsession in works of the last 20 years, or the emergence of the family epic, with its generational conflicts, as it becomes perhaps the signature subgenre of the American novel today. Equally, critics might overhaul their sense of a static literary past and think instead of the novel actively engaging with its forebears. By this I don't mean the small-scale connect-the-dots vision of T.S. Eliot, where a new work is related to a limited group of masterworks, but rather a much longer, more inclusive vision that might take as its model Steven Moore's recent encyclopedic study, ''The Novel: An Alternative History,'' which dramatically amplifies our understanding of what the novel can and cannot do, and highlights living currents that sprang into existence 40 centuries ago and continue to flow into the contemporary novel.
Alongside this vertical effort to ascertain where a work fits into the contemporary and historical field, a review can also be a horizontal map that moves from the standard direct quotation (be sure to let the reader ''get his own taste'' of a text, Updike warned critics in 1975) to an analysis of the hidden springs that govern the shape of the novel's sentences, or to an effort to establish a dialogue with the intellectual currents in other disciplines that have informed or challenged the work under review. In some cases, this horizontal mapping may require deeper research, or a closer sense of what novelists believe they're doing. Though a novelist's stated intentions shouldn't override a critic's internal barometer, it's nonetheless disappointing that there are probably fewer print publications where a book critic might interview contemporary authors than there were even 30 years ago, when Tom LeClair and Larry McCaffery released their landmark interview collection, ''Anything Can Happen'' (1983).
Good criticism, with ideas rather than prejudices, has always performed this kind of mapping and has found, as Kazin argued, the work to be its own reward. The culture is what it is -- messy and multi-valent, open to a certain range of entertainments and cultural expressions -- and the critic's yearning to dominate a larger audience is an index of the extent to which he or she finds the critical task insufficient in itself. Stepping aside from the culture of opinion, delving deeper into open-minded analysis, critics might fulfill their most important function: locating major works that are not always visible in mainstream networks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE BURN) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEONARDO SONNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



49 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES FIFTH AVENUE AND EAST 28TH STREET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: When Apartments Were Young and Daring

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE Dakota, the Gramercy, the Chelsea, the Windermere ... all these and more have, on occasion, been set forth as the oldest (or even the first!) apartment house in Manhattan. The game of superlatives is always chancy, but the obscure little Black, Starr & Frost building, erected in 1874 at Fifth Avenue and 28th Street, has an inside track -- even though no one has lived there for decades.
The burdens and wastefulness of private house life in Manhattan were apparent as soon as land values forced houses to four and five stories -- how many bedrooms can a widow, or a couple without children, or a professional man actually use? Before the 1860s the options were either living in a hotel, with its dreaded common dining room, or a boarding house, about as homelike as a railroad sleeper car. 
The Black, Starr & Frost building was built by William Black, head of the silver firm later known as Black, Starr & Gorham. Mr. Black was mixing business with business. He moved his firm to the ground floor, and leased apartments above.
The tenants of 1 East 28th Street were people like Asa Wilkinson, a chemist who had patents on many gas illuminating devices; George C. Barrett, a playwright and lawyer who in 1871 played a key role in removing the Tweed Ring from power; and John B. Bristol, a Hudson River painter who had been living in the big artists' studio building at Park Avenue South and 23rd Street. He was listed in an 1886 article in The New York Times as one of the ''old fogies'' of the National Academy of Design, along with Frederic Church and Jasper Cropsey, who opposed loosening exhibition and membership restrictions.
Although plans and descriptions of the original layouts have not yet surfaced, the households were small, often just husband and wife and a servant. It seems likely that there would have been two apartments each on the second through fifth floors, and extra servants' rooms behind a screen of tiny dormer windows on the mansarded sixth floor. The corner of the sixth floor was built out, with large circular windows facing Fifth Avenue and 28th Street, suggesting a special use: was this perhaps Mr. Bristol's studio?
There was an artistic cast to the early apartment house, an offshoot of the artists' studio buildings of the 1850s and later. The tea dealer John C. Runkle, another tenant, had a major collection, including works by Millet, Daubigny, Gerome and Bouguereau. His firmly Francophile taste perhaps made for an awkward moment or two with Mr. Bristol in the elevator. All save Mr. Wilkinson had one or more servants.
The Black, Starr & Frost building came only four years after the Stuyvesant, completed in 1870 at 142 East 18th Street, now demolished and generally considered the first structure for people who would otherwise feel some embarrassment at living in a multiple dwelling. That it was put up by the aristocratic developer Rutherford Stuyvesant and designed by the influential Richard Morris Hunt certainly helped, but the need was clear. In 1868, The Real Estate Record and Guide predicted that ''whole streets of them would be built before the supply could meet the demand.''
Elizabeth Collins Cromley's 1990 ''Alone Together: A History of New York's Early Apartments'' closely analyzes the evolving terminology used by the Department of Buildings for this new development. Until the mid-1870s the new ''French Flats'' were categorized with private houses under ''First Class Dwellings,'' even though they were technically tenement houses.
Both ''Alone Together'' and ''New York 1880,'' by Robert A. M. Stern, Thomas Mellins and David Fishman, list New York's earliest possible French Flats, and of their combined tally, only one earlier than the Black, Starr building survives: the architect Detlef Lienau's chaste set of buildings of 1870 at the northeast corner of Third Avenue and 71st Street. But, to judge from census returns, their tenants were not of the same economic class; none had servants.
Mr. Black's architect was George B. Post, almost as prominent as Mr. Hunt, and one of the few architects to be listed in the New York Social Register. The structure he created was heavy with brick and dark masonry, but positively debonair on New York's brownstone streets.
In the 1880s the area around Fifth and 28th became a nexus of early apartment design, with the Knickerbocker at the southeast corner, and two early cooperative ''Home Clubs'' on Madison and 28th and 30th Streets. But by the turn of the century, the Black, Starr apartments were outmoded; it appears that the building was converted to commercial use around 1915, with its top-floor mansard built out square.
The Black, Starr building has been brought low by age, the topmost tower shorn off, the brick and brownstone painted, the balconies removed. Whatever its position in New York's architectural history, it hardly stands out among the architectural miscellany of lower Fifth Avenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TRENDSETTER: The Black, Starr & Frost Building, shown around 1880, and today, shorn of its tower. The 1874 structure, one of New York's earliest apartment houses, had a store on the first floor. The mansard probably housed servants' rooms
the tower may have been an artist's studio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PICTUREHISTORY.COM
 CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); WRITERS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (68%); TEA (67%); PATENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



50 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Market Wisdom Applies to E.T.F.'s, Too

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
I WAS standing in the aisle of a commuter train rolling slowly into Manhattan, with time to kill. So I plugged some earbuds into my iPhone and began listening to music, reading e-mail and scanning the day's news. Then I began to check the financial numbers.
Commodity prices were rising. Hmm. Oil and copper prices were already very high, but the economic recovery seemed to be picking up pace. Did I have enough commodity exposure in my own portfolio? 
I called up my brokerage account and reviewed my holdings, which included shares in an exchange-traded fund linked to a commodity futures index. They were performing very nicely. I checked the current prices. If I tapped the screen just a few more times, I could buy some more shares.
But then I stopped myself: After all, this kind of behavior wasn't what John Bogle, the founder of Vanguard, intended when he brought index funds to the public.
Mr. Bogle created the first index fund in 1976 for Vanguard, then his fledgling fund group. He argued that for a vast majority of people, trying to time the market -- or to beat it through stock selection or Dow theory or whatever strategy you choose -- was doomed to failure.
''Keep your costs down,'' he said in a recent telephone interview. ''Invest for the long haul. Don't be greedy. Don't follow fads. That's all still true.''
Now 81, Mr. Bogle has just written a new book, ''Don't Count on It!: Reflections on Investment Illusions, Capitalism, 'Mutual' Funds, Indexing, Entrepreneurship, Idealism and Heroes.'' For people who have followed his work through the years, the themes will seem familiar. But there is a new wrinkle -- a warning about E.T.F.'s, exactly the kind of index fund that I was playing with on the train. (And playing with money, making financial decisions on the fly, isn't the best idea in any circumstance.)
In one sense, E.T.F.'s represent the triumph of Mr. Bogle's thinking, because these vehicles are index funds and are generally cheap, sometimes extremely so. They allow investors to set up diversified portfolios at very low cost, and to match the returns of an overall market. They are managed or sold by a host of companies, including Vanguard, Fidelity, State Street and BlackRock, to name a few.
But unlike traditional mutual funds, which are priced once a day, after the markets close, E.T.F.'s trade throughout the day like stocks or bonds. It's possible to buy and sell an E.T.F., then buy and sell it all over again, all on the same day, or even within the same hour. And thanks to the advent of smartphones and online trading, this can be done while commuting to work or relaxing at the beach.
This is market timing in the extreme, of course. And Mr. Bogle says it's a very bad idea.
''The simple broad market index fund of yore, which I believe is the greatest medium for long-term investing ever designed by the mind of man, has now been engineered for use in short-term speculation,'' Mr. Bogle writes in his book.
In the interview, he elaborated: ''Even if you're right about the market some of the time, you won't be right all of the time. You can't be, and you're going to get into trouble.''
The performance of the average investor bears out his point. On average, the great mass of mutual fund investors tend to underperform the market, because of the costs of their funds and because of the timing of their investments. During much of the rally in the domestic stock market since last March, for example, investors as a group were pulling money out of stock mutual funds. That means that they missed out on at least part of the climb in stocks.
But for people who are beguiled by the ease of trading E.T.F.'s, the problem may be even worse.
An analysis of the numbers by Kevin P. Laughlin of the Bogle Financial Markets Research Center, found that in the five years through October, what investors earned from their holdings in E.T.F.'s trailed the returns of the funds themselves by 3 percentage points, annualized. By comparison, the earnings of investors in traditional mutual funds lagged their funds' returns by 1.1 percentage points. These lags happened because investors were buying and selling at the wrong times.
All of this, Mr. Bogle said, is an indication that while E.T.F.'s are a useful and popular tool, they can be very hazardous.
Popular they certainly are. A Vanguard study found that by December 2009, index funds -- including both traditional mutual funds and E.T.F.'s -- comprised 23.1 percent of all equity funds. E.T.F.'s accounted for more than half of the total.
When Mr. Bogle first introduced index funds -- in their original, mutual fund form -- they were often derided as nothing better than an attempt to institutionalize mediocrity.
In an interview in The Boston Globe in 1976, for example, Edward C. Johnson III, then and now the head of Fidelity, said, ''I can't believe that the great mass of investors are going to be satisfied with an ultimate goal of just achieving average returns on their funds.''
He added: ''The name of the game is to be the best and I can't conceive of investment managers not even trying to do better than average.''
FAST-FORWARD to the present. Fidelity Investments offers a wide array of index funds in many forms, competing proudly in a field where just matching the returns of the market counts as success.
But Mr. Bogle warns that trying to do better than the market, by trading often in E.T.F.'s, or by slicing your diversification strategy too finely by buying narrowly focused funds, is asking for trouble.
''The ability to trade frequently is not an unmixed blessing,'' he said. ''E.T.F.'s, in their way, are a dangerous weapon.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TRAINS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (75%); COPPER MARKETS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ONLINE TRADING (70%); BONDS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Don't Count on It! (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



51 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3195 words

HEADLINE: The New Speed Of Money

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Secaucus, N.J.
A SUBSTANTIAL part of all stock trading in the United States takes place in a warehouse in a nondescript business park just off the New Jersey Turnpike.
Few humans are present in this vast technological sanctum, known as New York Four. Instead, the building, nearly the size of three football fields, is filled with long avenues of computer servers illuminated by energy-efficient blue phosphorescent light.
Countless metal cages contain racks of computers that perform all kinds of trades for Wall Street banks, hedge funds, brokerage firms and other institutions. And within just one of these cages -- a tight space measuring 40 feet by 45 feet and festooned with blue and white wires -- is an array of servers that together form the mechanized heart of one of the top four stock exchanges in the United States.
The exchange is called Direct Edge, hardly a household name. But as the lights pulse on its servers, you can almost see the holdings in your 401(k) zip by. 
''This,'' says Steven Bonanno, the chief technology officer of the exchange, looking on proudly, ''is where everyone does their magic.''
In many of the world's markets, nearly all stock trading is now conducted by computers talking to other computers at high speeds. As the machines have taken over, trading has been migrating from raucous, populated trading floors like those of the New York Stock Exchange to dozens of separate, rival electronic exchanges. They rely on data centers like this one, many in the suburbs of northern New Jersey.
While this ''Tron'' landscape is dominated by the titans of Wall Street, it affects nearly everyone who owns shares of stock or mutual funds, or who has a stake in a pension fund or works for a public company. For better or for worse, part of your wealth, your livelihood, is throbbing through these wires.
The advantages of this new technological order are clear. Trading costs have plummeted, and anyone can buy stocks from anywhere in seconds with the simple click of a mouse or a tap on a smartphone's screen.
But some experts wonder whether the technology is getting dangerously out of control. Even apart from the huge amounts of energy the megacomputers consume, and the dangers of putting so much of the economy's plumbing in one place, they wonder whether the new world is a fairer one -- and whether traders with access to the fastest machines win at the expense of ordinary investors.
It also seems to be a much more hair-trigger market. The so-called flash crash in the market last May -- when stock prices plunged hundreds of points before recovering -- showed how unpredictable the new systems could be. Fear of this volatile, blindingly fast market may be why ordinary investors have been withdrawing money from domestic stock mutual funds --$90 billion worth since May, according to figures from the Investment Company Institute.
No one knows whether this is a better world, and that includes the regulators, who are struggling to keep up with the pace of innovation in the great technological arms race that the stock market has become.
WILLIAM O'BRIEN, a former lawyer for Goldman Sachs, crosses the Hudson River each day from New York to reach his Jersey City destination -- a shiny blue building opposite a Courtyard by Marriott.
Mr. O'Brien, 40, works there as chief executive of Direct Edge, the young electronic stock exchange that is part of New Jersey's burgeoning financial ecosystem. Seven miles away, in Secaucus, is the New York Four warehouse that houses Direct Edge's servers. Another cluster of data centers, serving various companies, is five miles north, in Weehawken, at the western mouth of the Lincoln Tunnel. And yet another is planted 20 miles south on the New Jersey Turnpike, at Exit 12, in Carteret, N.J.
As Mr. O'Brien says, ''New Jersey is the new heart of Wall Street.''
Direct Edge's office demonstrates that it doesn't take many people to become a major outfit in today's electronic market. The firm, whose motto is ''Everybody needs some edge,'' has only 90 employees, most of them on this building's sixth floor. There are lines of cubicles for programmers and a small operations room where two men watch a wall of screens, checking that market-order traffic moves smoothly and, of course, quickly. Direct Edge receives up to 10,000 orders a second.
Mr. O'Brien's personal story reflects the recent history of stock-exchange upheaval. A fit, blue-eyed Wall Street veteran, who wears the monogram ''W O'B'' on his purple shirt cuff, Mr. O'Brien is the son of a seat holder and trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in the 1970s, when the Big Board was by far the biggest game around.
But in the 1980s, Nasdaq, a new electronic competitor, challenged that dominance. And a bigger upheaval came in the late 1990s and early 2000s, after the Securities and Exchange Commission enacted a series of regulations to foster competition and drive down commission costs for ordinary investors.
These changes forced the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq to post orders electronically and execute them immediately, at the best price available in the United States -- suddenly giving an advantage to start-up operations that were faster and cheaper. Mr. O'Brien went to work for one of them, called Brut. The N.Y.S.E. and Nasdaq fought back, buying up smaller rivals: Nasdaq, for example, acquired Brut. And to give itself greater firepower, the N.Y.S.E., which had been member-owned, became a public, for-profit company.
Brokerage firms and traders came to fear that a Nasdaq-N.Y.S.E. duopoly was asserting itself, one that would charge them heavily for the right to trade, so they created their own exchanges. One was Direct Edge, which formally became an exchange six months ago. Another, the BATS Exchange, is located in another unlikely capital of stock market trading: Kansas City, Mo.
Direct Edge now trails the N.Y.S.E. and Nasdaq in size; it vies with BATS for third place. Direct Edge is backed by a powerful roster of financial players: Goldman Sachs, Knight Capital, Citadel Securities and the International Securities Exchange, its largest shareholder. JPMorgan also holds a stake. Direct Edge still occupies the same building as its original founder, Knight Capital, in Jersey City.
The exchange now accounts for about 10 percent of stock market trading in the United States, according to the exchange and the TABB Group, a specialist on the markets. Of the 8.5 billion shares traded daily in the United States, about 833 million are bought and sold on Mr. O'Brien's platforms.
As it has grown, Direct Edge and other new venues have sucked volumes away from the Big Board and Nasdaq. The N.Y.S.E. accounted for more than 70 percent of trading in N.Y.S.E.-listed stocks just five years ago. Now, the Big Board handles only 36 percent of those trades itself. The remaining market share is divided among about 12 other public exchanges, several electronic trading platforms and vast so-called unlit markets, including those known as dark pools.
THE Big Board is embracing the new warp-speed world. Although it maintains a Wall Street trading floor, even that is mostly electronic. The exchange also has its own, separate electronic arm, Arca, and opened a new data center last year for its computers in Mahwah, N.J.
From his office in New Jersey, Mr. O'Brien looks back across the water to Manhattan and his former office on the 50th floor of the Nasdaq building at One Liberty Plaza, and he reflects wistfully on the huge changes that have taken place.
''To walk out of there to go across the river to Jersey City,'' he says. ''That was a big leap of faith.''
His colleague, Bryan Harkins, the exchange's chief operating officer, sounds confident about the impact of the past decade's changes. The new world is fairer, he says, because it is more competitive. ''We helped break the grip of the New York Stock Exchange,'' he says.
In this high-tech stock market, Direct Edge and the other exchanges are sprinting for advantage. All the exchanges have pushed down their latencies -- the fancy word for the less-than-a-blink-of-an-eye that it takes them to complete a trade. Almost each week, it seems, one exchange or another claims a new record: Nasdaq, for example, says its time for an average order ''round trip'' is 98 microseconds -- a mind-numbing speed equal to 98 millionths of a second.
The exchanges have gone warp speed because traders have demanded it. Even mainstream banks and old-fashioned mutual funds have embraced the change.
''Broker-dealers, hedge funds, traditional asset managers have been forced to play keep-up to stay in the game,'' Adam Honore, research director of the Aite Group, wrote in a recent report.
Even the savings of many long-term mutual fund investors are swept up in this maelstrom, when fund managers make changes in their holdings. But the exchanges are catering mostly to a different market breed -- to high-frequency traders who have turned speed into a new art form. They use algorithms to zip in and out of markets, often changing orders and strategies within seconds. They make a living by being the first to react to events, dashing past slower investors -- a category that includes most investors -- to take advantage of mispricing between stocks, for example, or differences in prices quoted across exchanges.
One new strategy is to use powerful computers to speed-read news reports -- even Twitter messages -- automatically, then to let their machines interpret and trade on them.
By using such techniques, traders may make only the tiniest fraction of a cent on each trade. But multiplied many times a second over an entire day, those fractions add up to real money. According to Kevin McPartland of the TABB Group, high-frequency traders now account for 56 percent of total stock market trading. A measure of their importance is that rather than charging them commissions, some exchanges now even pay high-frequency traders to bring orders to their machines.
High-frequency traders are ''the reason for the massive infrastructure,'' Mr. McPartland says. ''Everyone realizes you have to attract the high-speed traders.''
As everyone goes warp speed, a number of high-tech construction projects are under way.
One such project is a 428,000-square-foot data center in the western suburbs of Chicago opened by the CME Group, which owns the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. It houses the exchange's Globex electronic futures and options trading platform and space for traders to install computers next to the exchange's machines, a practice known as co-location -- at a cost of about $25,000 a month per rack of computers.
The exchange is making its investment because derivatives as well as stocks are being swept up in the high-frequency revolution. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission estimates that high-frequency traders now account for about one-third of all volume on domestic futures exchanges.
In August, Spread Networks of Ridgeland, Miss., completed an 825-mile fiber optic network connecting the South Loop of Chicago to Cartaret, N.J., cutting a swath across central Pennsylvania and reducing the round-trip trading time between Chicago and New York by three milliseconds, to 13.33 milliseconds.
Then there are the international projects. Fractions of a second are regularly being shaved off of the busy Frankfurt-to-London route. And in October, a company called Hibernia Atlantic announced plans for a new fiber-optic link beneath the Atlantic from Halifax, Nova Scotia, to Somerset, England that will be able to send shares from London to New York and back in 60 milliseconds.
Bjarni Thorvardarson, chief executive of Hibernia Atlantic, says the link, due to open in 2012, is primarily intended to meet the needs of high-frequency algorithmic traders and will cost ''hundreds of millions of dollars.''
''People are going over the lake and through the church, whatever it takes,'' he says. ''It is very important for these algorithmic traders to have the most advanced technology.''
The pace of investment, of course, reflects the billions of dollars that are at stake.
The data center in Weehawken is a modern building that looks more like a shopping mall than a center for equity trading. But one recent afternoon, the hammering and drilling of the latest phase of expansion seemed to conjure up the wealth being dug out of the stock market.
As the basement was being transformed into a fourth floor for yet more computers, one banker who was touring the complex explained the matter bluntly: ''Speed,'' he said, ''is money. ''
THE ''flash crash,'' the harrowing plunge in share prices that shook the stock market during the afternoon of May 6 last year, crystallized the fears of some in the industry that technology was getting ahead of the regulators. In their investigation into the plunge, the S.E.C. and Commodity Futures Trading Commission found that the drop was precipitated not by a rogue high-frequency firm, but by the sale of a single $4.1 billion block of E-Mini Standard & Poor's 500 futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange by a mutual fund company.
The fund company, Waddell & Reed Financial of Overland Park, Kan., conducted its sale through a computer algorithm provided by Barclays Capital, one of the many off-the shelf programs available to investors these days. The algorithm automatically dripped the billions of dollars of sell orders into the futures market over 20 minutes, continuing even as prices started to drop when other traders jumped in.
The sale may have been a case of inept timing -- the markets were already roiled by the debt crisis in Europe. But there was no purposeful attempt to disrupt the market, the regulators found.
But there was a role played by some high-frequency machines, the investigation found. As they detected the big sale and the choppy conditions, some of them shut down automatically. As the number of buyers plunged, so, too, did the Dow Jones Industrial Average, losing more than 700 points in minutes before the computers returned and prices recovered just as quickly. More than 20,000 trades were ruled invalid.
The episode seemed to demonstrate the vulnerabilities of the new market, and just what could happen when no humans are in charge to correct the machines.
Since the flash crash, the S.E.C. and the exchanges have introduced marketwide circuit breakers on individual stocks to halt trading if a price falls 10 percent within a five-minute period.
But some analysts fear that some aspects of the flash crash may portend dangers greater than mere mechanical failure. They say some wild swings in prices may suggest that a small group of high-frequency traders could manipulate the market. Since May, there have been regular mini-flash crashes in individual stocks for which, some say, there are still no satisfactory explanations. Some experts say these drops in individual stocks could herald a future cataclysm.
In a speech last month, Bart Chilton, a member of the futures trading commission, raised concerns about the effect of high-frequency trading on the markets. ''With the advent of 'Star Trek'-like, gee-whiz H.F.T. technology, we are witnessing one of the most game-changing and tumultuous shifts we have ever seen in financial markets,'' Mr. Chilton said. ''We also have to think about the myriad ramifications of technology.''
One debate has focused on whether some traders are firing off fake orders thousands of times a second to slow down exchanges and mislead others. Michael Durbin, who helped build high-frequency trading systems for companies like Citadel and is the author of the book ''All About High-Frequency Trading,'' says that most of the industry is legitimate and benefits investors. But, he says, the rules need to be strengthened to curb some disturbing practices.
''Markets are there for capital formation and long-term investment, not for gaming,'' he says.
As it tries to work out the implications of the technology, the S.E.C. is a year into a continuing review of the new market structure. Mary L. Schapiro, the S.E.C. chairwoman, has already proposed creating a consolidated audit trail, so that buying and selling records from different exchanges can be examined together in one place.
In speeches, Ms. Schapiro has also raised the idea of limiting the speed at which machines can trade, or requiring high-frequency traders to stay in markets as buyers or sellers even in volatile conditions. just as human market makers often did on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. .
''The emergence of multiple trading venues that offer investors the benefits of greater competition also has made our market structure more complex,'' she said in Senate testimony last month, adding, ''We should not attempt to turn the clock back to the days of trading crowds on exchange floors.''
MOST of the exchanges have already eliminated a controversial electronic trading technique known as flash orders, which allow traders' computers to peek at other investors' orders a tiny fraction of a second before they are sent to the wider marketplace. Direct Edge, however, still offers a version of this service.
The futures trading commission is considering how to regulate data centers, and the practice of co-location. The regulators are also examining the implications of so-called dark pools, another product of the technological revolution, in which large blocks of shares are traded electronically and without the scrutiny exercised on public markets. Their very name raises questions about the transparency of markets. About 30 percent of domestic equities are traded on these and other ''unlit'' venues, the S.E.C. says.
For Mr. O'Brien, the benefits of technology are clear. ''One thing has surprised me: people have looked at this as a bad thing,'' he says. ''There is almost no other industry where people say we need less technology. Fifteen years ago, trades took much longer to execute and were much more expensive by any measure'' because market power was more concentrated in a few large firms. ''Now someone can execute a trade from their mobile from anywhere on the planet. That seems to me like a market that is fairer.''
For others who work at the company or elsewhere in the financial ecosystem of New Jersey, it has been a boon.
''A lot of my friends work here or in this area,'' says Andrei Girenkov, 28, one of Direct Edge's chief programmers, over lunch recently in Dorrian's restaurant in Direct Edge's building. ''It changed my life.''
But some analysts question whether everyone benefits from this technological upending.
''It is a technological arms race in financial markets and the regulators are a bit caught unaware of how quickly the technology has evolved,'' says Andrew Lo, director of the Laboratory for Financial Engineering at M.I.T. ''Sometimes, too much technology without the ability to manage it effectively can yield some unintended consequences. We need to ask the hard questions about how much of this do we really need. It is the Wild, Wild West in trading.''
Mr. Lo suggests a need for a civilizing influence. ''Finally,'' he says, ''it gets to the point where we have a massive traffic jam and we need to install traffic lights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A clock at Direct Edge's offices in Jersey City ticks down to the opening of financial markets. The company operates one of the largest stock exchanges in the United States.
 Andrei Girenkov, a chief programmer for Direct Edge, said he and his friends had benefited from the burgeoning financial ecosystem of New Jersey. The state has several large data centers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SIMON C. PAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



52 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: METRICS; In Investing, It's When You Start And When You Finish

BYLINE: By AMANDA COX

 BODY:
THROUGH last Thursday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was on track to post double-digit gains for the second year in a row. But the index is still below where it was in early 1999. 
So what is the proper perspective?
Ed Easterling, who runs an investment management and research firm in Corvallis, Ore., faced similar questions a decade ago. In the summer of 2001, Mr. Easterling had a debate with a client about whether investors should expect to achieve long-term average returns in the future.
At the time, the average individual investor expected that the stock market would return about 10 percent a year over the next 10 to 20 years -- or about 7 percent, after inflation -- according to surveys by the University of Michigan's Survey Research Center, as well as UBS and Gallup.
But historical averages can vary widely, depending on their starting and ending points. For example, averages that start before the 1929 crash are substantially different from those that start after it, and Mr. Easterling felt that choosing a single date was arbitrary. In response, he created the chart above, which shows annualized returns based on thousands of possible combinations of market entry and exit.
''Markets are more volatile than people realize,'' Mr. Easterling said, ''even over periods as long as 20 years.''
After accounting for dividends, inflation, taxes and fees, $10,000 invested at the end of 1961 would have shrunk to $6,600 by 1981. From the end of 1979 to 1999, $10,000 would have grown to $48,000.
Many of the worst periods on the chart began when price-to-earnings ratios were high. And lofty P/E ratios mean that stocks are more expensive because investors are paying more for each dollar of corporate profit.
Based on the previous 10 years of earnings, the P/E ratio for the S.& P. 500 is currently somewhat above its 100-year average. Given that, Mr. Easterling advises investors to reconsider their expectations about the buy-and-hold strategies that have worked so well in the past.

GRAPHIC: CHART: How Much Can You Expect An Investment to Return?: This chart shows annualized returns for the S.& P. 500 for every starting year and every ending year since 1920 -- nearly 4,000 combinations in all. For example, if you invested money at the end of 1930 and withdrew it in 1950, the market would have returned about 2 percent a year after inflation and taxes. People who invested after the crash in 1929 in hopes of a quick rebound had to wait many years for their investments to pay off. (CHART BY CRESTMONT RESEARCH) (Source: ''Unexpected Returns'' by Ed Easterling, Crestmont Research (CrestmontResearch.com), updated by the author.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (75%); OREGON, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



53 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ART REVIEW NEW JERSEY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Conflict's Many Marks on the Map

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

 BODY:
It has been said that geography creates war and wars create geography. ''Nobody's Property: Art, Land, Space, 2000-2010,'' at the Princeton University Art Museum, might be used as evidence, since its works, by nine artists -- including two artist duos -- center mostly on disputed land and the scorching aftermath of war.
Like a contested border zone, the exhibition should include some kind of signage or warning: for a modest show, there is much to take in. ''Nobody's Property'' touches down in the Middle East; Vieques, off the mainland of Puerto Rico; the Mexican-American border; Dresden circa 1945; and outer space. 
Time is an issue, too. Andrea Geyer's neo-conceptual photo and text piece about sovereignty and the Navajo Nation in the American Southwest includes many paragraphs of prose printed in small, handsome type, as well as an 11-page booklet of ''footnotes.'' And if you watched every commentary for Francis Als's video, centered on the Green Line in Jerusalem, an armistice line established at the end of the Arab-Israeli War in 1948-49, you would be investing at least a couple of hours.
The show starts with a succinct work by Jennifer Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla made in 2001 and 2002. Photographs of footprints in the sand function as documents of a performance protest in which the artists and their associates went to Vieques and trespassed on a beach used by the United States military as a bombing range. Before going, though, they customized the soles of their shoes with outline images of people protesting or being arrested, or with texts saying things like ''we accuse the U.S. Navy of thwarting, for more than a half-century, the healthy development of our economy.''
Mr. Als's work is next. Those well acquainted with contemporary art will have seen or heard of it, since it has become a kind of instant classic of the Middle East conflict genre since its creation in 2007. Like much of the best art that addresses Israeli-Palestinian politics, it takes a poetically open-ended approach. Hence the title: ''The Green Line: Sometimes Doing Something Poetic Can Become Political and Sometimes Doing Something Political Can Become Poetic.''
The ''something'' Mr. Als does is poke a hole in a can of green paint and wander along the border, through neighborhoods and checkpoints, attracting the attention of children and a few goats. (Interestingly, soldiers along the way pretty much ignore him.) The installation includes a map of the area from about 1946, showing how geography, which looks permanent on paper, is subject to change. Viewers can use a computer to choose a soundtrack by one of several commentators.
Yael Bartana's ''Kings of the Hill,'' from 2003, is another video that has been shown in multiple places, including at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens, in an exhibition of her work in 2008 and 2009. Shot in a resort town near Tel Aviv, it captures a weird, macho recreation custom in which men drive their sport utility vehicles up and down sand dunes on Friday afternoons. Actually, perhaps it's not so weird, since the video suggests that all land grabs and attempts to become ''king of the hill'' -- even when just for sport -- involve wheel spinning, squandering of resources and displays of testosterone.
Compared with the works by Mr. Als and Ms. Bartana, the photographs of scorched fake-vintage Lebanese postcards by Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige look rather slight. Beirut was, of course, a resort city in the 1960s, and the artists have fabricated sunny resort postcards from that period, then photographed them, burned the negatives a bit, and rephotographed them to suggest a firebombed city.
It's a fairly one-note gimmick, not helped by the fact that the postcards are attributed to a fictional photographer, one Abdalla Farah, who supposedly burned his negatives in dismay over the country's civil war, which started in 1975. The problem is also that Walid Raad, a fellow Lebanese artist, uses the fictional-history tactic to better ends.
Santiago Sierra's slide projection ''Submission (formerly Word of Fire),'' from 2006-7, is also a rather slight statement, although, typically for his oeuvre, it involved considerable production maneuvers. In it, a group of men is shown digging the word ''sumision'' (Spanish for ''submission'') into the desert near Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. Mr. Sierra had hoped to pour gasoline into the depressions and torch the whole thing -- for aesthetic effect, apparently -- but was thwarted, according to the wall label, by ''environmental regulations (and possibly the resistance of the local community).'' It's funny to read this in the context of this show, and just after seeing Ms. Bartana's video, with its spotlight on showy masculine posturing.
Torching was also involved in the creation of Matthew Day Jackson's huge wall piece made of wood carved to recreate an aerial map of Dresden then burned to simulate the look of the city after it was bombed in February 1945.
Emre Huner's video ''Juggernaut,'' from 2009, is the most playful work in the show. It combines, among other things, scenes of a fictional Bolshevik aviation club, a group of gray-haired men plotting something -- we have no idea what -- and black-and-white footage of the 1939 New York World's Fair, where you could glimpse the ''greater and better tomorrow that we're building today.''
The takeaway here is that group exhibitions are great for showcasing and contextualizing art, but that they can also be weakened by their own version of ''compassion fatigue'': that is, faced with too many images and stories of suffering, we shut down. Here the risk is conflict fatigue: when the geopolitical and historical panorama becomes too dense, even a small show like ''Nobody's Property'' can wear out the sympathetic viewer.
''Nobody's Property: Art, Land, Space, 2000-2010,'' Princeton University Art Museum, through Feb. 20. Information: princetonartmuseum.org or (609) 258-3788.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STRIFE: Above, a work by Matthew Day Jackson made of wood carved to recreate an aerial map of Dresden after the bombing of 1945. At right, a photograph by Jennifer Allora and Guillermo Calzadilla of footprints on Vieques, off the Puerto Rican mainland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE M. WHITE
JENNIFER ALLORA AND GUILLERMO CALZADILLA/GALERIE CHANTAL CROUSEL)
IN ISRAEL: At left, an image from a video by Francis Als centered on the Green Line, the armistice line in Jerusalem. Above, an image from ''Kings of the Hill,'' a video by Yael Bartana about an Israeli recreation custom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCIS ALS/DAVID ZWIRNER
 YAEL BARTANA/ANNET GELINK GALLERY, AMSTERDAM, AND SOMMER CONTEMPORARY ART, TEL AVIV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); NAVIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); BEACHES (64%); CHILDREN (62%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) SOUTHWEST, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



54 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; CRITICS' PICKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Critics' Picks for the Year: Hot Cars in a Cool Economy

BYLINE: by JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
1. VOLKSWAGEN GTI I had seat time in 2010 with some six-figure fantasies, including a gullwing Mercedes SLS and a blistering Corvette ZR-1. Yet my driving daydreams kept returning to this simple, fairly priced ($25,000), always entertaining hatchback. A four-door version adds more versatility, and a new direct-shift gearbox mates brilliantly with the turbo 4, making the GTI the most fun you can have at 30 m.p.g. For the price of a Porsche Panamera you can decorate your driveway with three or more GTIs -- and it will look all the better for it.
2. VOLVO S60 T6 The first Volvo introduced by the company's new Chinese ownership (though largely developed under Ford), the new S60 is the most exciting, endearing Volvo I've driven. With a structure so solid it feels German, combined with a superior interior and brilliant controls, the S60 is a credible BMW alternative. 
3. HYUNDAI SONATA Is the 2011 Sonata the best midsize sedan on the market? Maybe not, but it is selling briskly on its combination of standout styling, good mileage and high content at a reasonable price. In 10 years, when Hyundai rules the car world, we'll look back at this Sonata as one of the most significant cars of our time.
4. NISSAN LEAF This compact electric sedan is certainly not for everyone. (Me, for instance.) The battery range is too limited, and recharging can take a long time. But America's first modern mass-market electric car is nicely executed, with good acceleration, respectable handling and a driving experience that's reassuringly normal.
5. ASTON MARTIN V-12 VANTAGE In recent years, the best thing about Aston Martin often seemed to be its name; that is, the company's heritage and cachet trumped its cars, which were often less remarkable than their price. But the addition of a thundering V-12 to the lightweight Vantage created the Aston of my dreams, a gorgeous throwback free of extraneous techno distractions. And there's always a hint of danger lurking under the sleek formal attire.
6. PORSCHE BOXSTER SPYDER What's not to love about this lighter, more powerful version of my favorite roadster? Just two things: the $62,000 price is awfully steep, and the complicated two-piece top is utterly ridiculous. Otherwise, the Spyder is simply perfect.
7. FORD MUSTANG While Ford could have let its latest Mustang lope along mostly unchanged, it has been continually tweaking and updating its pony car -- in response to the Camaro threat, no doubt. As a result, each time I drive a Mustang it seems significantly better than the one before. For 2011, new engines address the car's powertrain deficiencies.
8. AUDI A8 The big Audi sedan has long been a personal favorite, and a 2011 redesign brought an array of new technologies, along with better mileage and performance. The exterior styling is just short of stodgy, but the interior rocks -- especially from the headbanging Bang & Olufsen audio system.
9. NISSAN JUKE Dating back to the original Honda CR-V, small crossovers usually seemed to lack one crucial ingredient: fun. This googly-eyed youth-oriented crossover serves up loads of smiles, and it performs well enough to please a lot of enthusiasts.
10. CHEVROLET CRUZE To be honest, the powertrain could use some work; by tuning the engine for maximum economy, acceleration suffered. But despite scores of small-car efforts over five decades, G.M. has never made a compact sedan with anything close to the Cruze's polish. And the upscale LTZ interior is, astonishingly, best in class.
Gripes for the Record Books
MY MOTHER-IN-LAW THE CAR I've grown accustomed to luxury cars that chirp, chime and chide with a variety of warnings. (Every Mercedes I've driven of late suggests, every few minutes, that I need a coffee break.) But no car's nano-nanny nags like the Infiniti M37 with the Technology Package, a $3,000 collection of electronic noodges that beep, bleat and vibrate over anything perceived as a driver deficiency. It even nudges the steering wheel if sensors think you're drifting. No, thanks; I'll drive myself.
THE GERMAN GOES MISSING The 2011 Jetta is a linchpin of VW's strategy to sell, by 2018, a million cars a year in America. But in its quest for the mass market is VW losing its German soul? The Jetta I tested, with its bland styling, mushy brake pedal and excessive wind noise, had little (besides decent road manners) to recommend it. While VW's interiors used to be exceptional, the Jetta's looks and feels as cheap as a Korean econobox's -- before Korean econoboxes got good.
NICHE MADNESS It's hard to say just where BMW jumped the shark with its proliferation of pointless derivative models. But the BMW 550i GT, a huge, pricey, none-too-pretty hatchback, actually manages to make the odd-duck X6 seem rational.
PLUG AND PLAY I was a bit late to the MP3 music revolution, but now when I get in a car I quickly plug in my iPhone to play some tunes. Alas, most automakers have made this more of a chore than it need be. U.S.B. ports are tucked into gloveboxes or in a bin under your elbow. (The Infiniti QX56's is deep in a cubby too small for my hand, under a tiny cover I can barely reach.) Hooray for Hyundai, which seems to have given the matter some thought. At the front of the Sonata's console is a perfectly positioned U.S.B. connector, two powerpoints and a handy tray for iPods or whatever.
EAT YOUR PEAS, KIDS In theory, the Honda CR-Z made sense: a two-seat hatchback with overtones of the late, beloved Civic CR-X, intended to convince young people that hybrids could be fun. But as executed the CR-Z is not just slow as a slug, its mileage is barely better than middling. Move along, then; there's no excitement here.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Volkswagen GTI (above) 2. Volvo S60 T6 3. Hyundai Sonata 4. Nissan Leaf 5. Aston Martin V-12 Vantage 6. Porsche Boxster Spyder 7. Ford Mustang 8. Audi A8 9. Nissan Juke 10. Chevrolet Cruze (AU1)
 The Honda CR-Z, a hybrid sport coupe, hasn't sold briskly. (AU3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



55 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Public Workers Facing Outrage In Budget Crisis

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
FLEMINGTON, N.J. -- Ever since Marie Corfield's confrontation with Gov. Chris Christie this fall over the state's education cuts became a YouTube classic, she has received a stream of vituperative e-mails and Facebook postings.
''People I don't even know are calling me horrible names,'' said Ms. Corfield, an art teacher who had pleaded the case of struggling teachers. ''The mantra is that the problem is the unions, the unions, the unions.''
Across the nation, a rising irritation with public employee unions is palpable, as a wounded economy has blown gaping holes in state, city and town budgets, and revealed that some public pension funds dangle perilously close to bankruptcy. In California, New York, Michigan and New Jersey, states where public unions wield much power and the culture historically tends to be pro-labor, even longtime liberal political leaders have demanded concessions -- wage freezes, benefit cuts and tougher work rules.
It is an angry conversation. Union chiefs, who sometimes persuaded members to take pension sweeteners in lieu of raises, are loath to surrender ground. Taxpayers are split between those who want cuts and those who hope that rising tax receipts might bring easier choices. 
And a growing cadre of political leaders and municipal finance experts argue that much of the edifice of municipal and state finance is jury-rigged and, without new revenue, perhaps unsustainable. Too many political leaders, they argue, acted too irresponsibly, failing to either raise taxes or cut spending.
A brutal reckoning awaits, they say.
These battles play out in many corners, but few are more passionate than in New Jersey, where politics tend toward the moderately liberal and nearly 20 percent of the work force is unionized (compared with less than 14 percent nationally). From tony horse-country towns to middle-class suburbs to hard-edged cities, property tax and unemployment rates are high, and budgets are pools of red ink.
A new regime in state politics is venting frustration less at Goldman Sachs executives (Governor Christie vetoed a proposed ''millionaire's tax'' this year) than at unions. Newark recently laid off police officers after they refused to accept cuts, and Camden has threatened to lay off half of its officers in January.
Fred Siegel, a historian at the conservative-leaning Manhattan Institute, has written of the ''New Tammany Hall,'' which he describes as the incestuous alliance between public officials and labor.
''Public unions have had no natural adversary; they give politicians political support and get good contracts back,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''It's uniquely dysfunctional.''
Even if that is so, this battle comes woven with complications. Across the nation in the last two years, public workers have experienced furloughs and pay cuts. Local governments shed 212,000 jobs last year.
A raft of recent studies found that public salaries, even with benefits included, are equivalent to or lag slightly behind those of private sector workers. The Manhattan Institute, which is not terribly sympathetic to unions, studied New Jersey and concluded that teachers earned wages roughly comparable to people in the private sector with a similar education.
Benefits tend to be the sorest point. From Illinois to New Jersey, politicians have refused to pay into pension funds, creating deeper and deeper shortfalls.
In California, pension costs now crowd out spending for parks, public schools and state universities; in Illinois, spiraling pension costs threaten the state with insolvency.
And taxpayer resentment simmers.
Trouble in New Jersey
To venture into Washington Township in southern New Jersey is to walk the frayed line between taxpayer and public employees, and to hear anger and ambivalence. So many Philadelphians have flocked here over the years that locals call it ''South Philly with grass.''
These expatriates tend to be Democrats and union members, or sons and daughters of the same. But property taxes are rising fast, and voters favored Governor Christie, a Republican. Bill Rahl, a graying plug of a retiree, squints and holds his hand against his throat. ''I'm up to here with taxes, I can't breathe, O.K.?'' he says. ''I don't know about asking anyone to give up a pension. Just don't ask for no more.''
Governor Christie faced a vast deficit when he took office last January, and much of the federal stimulus aid for schools was exhausted by June. So he cut deeply into state aid for education; Washington Township lost $900,000. That forced the town to rely principally on property taxes. (Few states lean as heavily on property taxes to finance education; New Jersey ranks 45th in state aid to education.) The town turned its construction office over to a private contractor and shed a few employees.
Assemblyman Paul D. Moriarty, a liberal Democrat, served four years as mayor of Washington Township. As the bill for pension and health benefits for town employees soared, he struggled to explain this to constituents.
''We really should not receive benefits any better than the people we serve,'' he says. ''It leads to a lot of resentment against public employees.''
All of which sounds logical, except that, as Mr. Moriarty also acknowledges, such thinking also ''leads to a race to the bottom.'' That is, as businesses cut private sector benefits, pressure grows on government to cut pay and benefits for its employees.
Robert Master, political director for the Communication Workers of America District 1, which represents 40,000 state workers, speaks to that difficulty.
''The subtext of Christie's message to a lot of people is that 'you're paying for benefits you'll never have,' '' he says. ''Our challenge is how to defend middle-class health and retirement security, not just for our members but for all working families, when over the past 30 years retirement and health care in the private sector have been essentially demolished.''
This said, some union officials privately say that the teachers' union, in its battle against cuts to salaries and benefits, misread Mr. Christie and the public temperament. Better to endorse a wage freeze, they say, than to argue that teachers should be held harmless against the economic storm.
In the past, union leaders, too, have proven adept at winning gains not just at the bargaining table. In 2000, union lobbyists persuaded legislators to cut five years off the retirement age for police and firefighters -- a move criticized as a budget-buster by a state pension commission. The next year, the budget still was flush and union leaders persuaded the Republican dominated legislature to approve a 9 percent increase in pension benefits. (The legislators added a sweetener for their own pensions.)
Those labor leaders, however, proved less successful in persuading their legislative allies to pay for such benefits. For much of the last two decades, New Jersey has shortchanged its pension contribution.
Governor Christie talked about tough choices this past year -- then skipped the state's required $3.1 billion payment. Now New Jersey has a $53.9 billion unfunded pension liability.
A recent Monmouth University/Gannett New Jersey poll found a narrow plurality of respondents in the state in favor of ditching the pensions for a 401(k)-type program. Public pensions, however, run the gamut, from modest (the average local government pensioner makes less than $20,000 a year while teachers draw about $46,000) to the gilded variety for police and firefighters, some of whom collect six figures. And then there's the political class, which has made an art form of pension collection.
Some politicians draw multiple pensions as county legislators, called freeholders, and as prosecutors or union leaders. Back in Washington Township, people tend to talk of state government as a casino with fixed craps tables.
A white-haired retired undercover police officer, whose wrap-around shades match his black Harley-Davidson jacket, pauses outside the Washington Township municipal building to consider the many targets. He did not want to give his name.
''Christie has all the good intentions in the world but has he hit the right people?'' he says. ''I understand pulling in belts, but you talking about janitors and cops, or the free-loading freeholder?''
Good Jobs, at What Cost?
So how much is too much? On their face, New Jersey's public salaries are not exorbitant. The state has one of the highest per-capita incomes in the country, and the average teacher makes $66,597, which even with benefits is on par with or slightly behind similarly educated private sector workers, according to Jeffrey H. Keefe, a Rutgers professor who studied the issue for the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute.
Mr. Keefe, however, uncovered some intriguing class splits. Blue-collar public workers make more money than their private sector counterparts. For such jobs, public unions have established a higher wage floor.
The sense that public workers enjoy certain advantages is not a mirage. Public employees pay into their pension funds, but health benefits often come at a fraction of the cost of most private sector packages.
Government employment also tends to be more secure. When the economy crashed, federal stimulus dollars safeguarded many public jobs. The alternative, many economists point out, was to force towns and cities into extensive layoffs, even as unemployment hovered around 10 percent and millions of Americans sought help from public agencies.
But it accentuated the perception that public workers, however tenuously, inhabited a protected class. That's a tough sell in Washington Township.
Ask Michael Tini, 54, who works as a card dealer in Atlantic City, about teacher salaries and benefits and he taps his head, not unsympathetically.
''Look, I understand that teachers are the brains of the operation, O.K.? But my hours are cut, and my taxes are killing me.''
He taps his head again. ''They have got to take it in the ear, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marie Corfield, a teacher in Flemington, N.J., challenged Gov. Chris Christie over state education cuts at a town hall meeting in September. Their tense exchange was posted on YouTube. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Michael Tini, left, a card dealer in Atlantic City, N.J., thinks public school teachers should take their fair share of the pain. Bill Rahl, a retiree, says people shouldn't have to give up a pension. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SABINA LOUISE PIERCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (88%); LIBERALISM (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); HISTORY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LAYOFFS (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



56 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Equality, a True Soul Food

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
Maureen Dowd, Thomas L. Friedman, Frank Rich and the public editor are off today.

 BODY:
John Steinbeck observed that ''a sad soul can kill you quicker, far quicker, than a germ.''
That insight, now confirmed by epidemiological studies, is worth bearing in mind at a time of such polarizing inequality that the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans possess a greater collective net worth than the bottom 90 percent.
There's growing evidence that the toll of our stunning inequality is not just economic but also is a melancholy of the soul. The upshot appears to be high rates of violent crime, high narcotics use, high teenage birthrates and even high rates of heart disease. 
That's the argument of an important book by two distinguished British epidemiologists, Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett. They argue that gross inequality tears at the human psyche, creating anxiety, distrust and an array of mental and physical ailments -- and they cite mountains of data to support their argument.
''If you fail to avoid high inequality, you will need more prisons and more police,'' they assert. ''You will have to deal with higher rates of mental illness, drug abuse and every other kind of problem.'' They explore these issues in their book, ''The Spirit Level: Why Greater Equality Makes Societies Stronger.''
The heart of their argument is that humans are social animals and that in highly unequal societies those at the bottom suffer from a range of pathologies. For example, a long-term study of British civil servants found that messengers, doormen and others with low status were much more likely to die of heart disease, suicide and some cancers and had substantially worse overall health.
There's similar evidence from other primates. For example, macaque monkeys are also highly social animals, and scientists put them in cages and taught them how to push a lever so that they could get cocaine. Those at the bottom of the monkey hierarchy took much more cocaine than high-status monkeys.
Other experiments found that low-status monkeys suffered physical problems, including atherosclerosis in their arteries and an increase in abdominal fat. And as with monkeys, so with humans. Researchers have found that when people become unemployed or suffer economic setbacks, they gain weight. One 12-year study of American men found that when their income slipped, they gained an average of 5.5 pounds.
The correlation is strong around the world between countries with greater inequality and greater drug use. Paradoxically, countries with more relaxed narcotics laws, like the Netherlands, have relatively low domestic drug use -- perhaps because they are more egalitarian.
Professors Wilkinson and Pickett crunch the numbers and show that the same relationship holds true for a range of social problems. Among rich countries, those that are more unequal appear to have more mental illness, infant mortality, obesity, high school dropouts, teenage births, homicides, and so on.
They find the same thing is true among the 50 American states. More unequal states, like Mississippi and Louisiana, do poorly by these social measures. More equal states, like New Hampshire and Minnesota, do far better.
So why is inequality so harmful? ''The Spirit Level'' suggests that inequality undermines social trust and community life, corroding societies as a whole. It also suggests that humans, as social beings, become stressed when they find themselves at the bottom of a hierarchy.
That stress leads to biological changes, such as the release of the hormone cortisol, and to the accumulation of abdominal fat (perhaps an evolutionary adaptation in preparation for starvation ahead?). The result is physical ailments like heart disease, and social ailments like violent crime, mutual distrust, self-destructive behaviors and persistent poverty. Another result is the establishment of alternative systems in which one can win respect and acquire self-esteem, such as gangs.
Granted, humans are not all equal in ability: There will always be some who are more wealthy -- and others who constitute the bottom. But inequality does not have to be as harsh, oppressive and polarized as it is in America today. Germany and Japan have attained modern, efficient economies with far less inequality than we have -- and far fewer social problems. Likewise, the gap between rich and poor fell during the Clinton administration, according to data cited in ''The Spirit Level,'' even though that was a period of economic vigor.
''Inequality is divisive, and even small differences seem to make an important difference,'' Professors Wilkinson and Pickett note. They suggest that it is not just the poor who benefit from the social cohesion that comes with equality, but the entire society.
So as we debate national policy in 2011 -- from the estate tax to unemployment insurance to early childhood education -- let's push to reduce the stunning levels of inequality in America today. These inequities seem profoundly unhealthy, for us and for our nation's soul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); PRIMATES (86%); HOMICIDE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); OBESITY (75%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); CANCER (75%); COCAINE (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); SUICIDE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (50%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



57 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS CONNECTICUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Old Movie Palaces, Trying On the New

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
FOR 15 years, a plastic likeness of Humphrey Bogart has been turning heads in the lobby of the Garde Arts Center in New London. Standing in the lavishly restored faux-Moroccan interior, the statue brings to mind the classic Bogart film ''Casablanca'' -- recalling in the process a bygone era when moviegoers regularly filled the Garde's 1,472-seat auditorium.
No one thinks that era is coming back. But the Garde, which opened in 1926 as a first-run picture house on a key corner of the city's small downtown, has found new life as a nonprofit arts center -- one of a minority of former movie palaces that, having survived suburban multiplexes and digital miniscreens, are now serving a variety of constituencies.
Like the other centers, the Garde -- which escaped demolition in the mid-1980s when civic leaders, acting as the nonprofit Garde Arts Center Inc., bought the building -- offers a mix of programming, including theater classes for schoolchildren and a broad range of entertainment, like Broadway shows, jazz, the local symphony and ballet. 
But Steven Sigel, the executive director, said that, with competition for the entertainment dollar growing and the economy faltering, ''attendance is tenuous.'' As a result, he is working harder to reach potential audience members.
''We see it as the community's parlor,'' he said of the Garde, whose original Moorish decor was refurbished, its seats replaced and its technology upgraded 12 years ago for $14 million.
Mr. Sigel has provided interactive programming in the past, but he will go a step further when, on Jan. 29, he inaugurates ''Go See,'' or ''Garde Open Stage Entertainment Expo'' -- an event at which as many as 100 community members will display or perform their creative work. Mr. Sigel likened the event, which could unfold without a predetermined end point, to the kind of vaudeville marathon popular during the Depression.
Evoking the past while presenting modern acts sets theaters like the Garde apart, something also true of the Tarrytown Music Hall, Westchester's oldest theater. Opened in 1885 -- the hall was the site of concerts and other events before showing movies during the Depression -- it retains its distinctive brickwork facade and the ornaments its interior has acquired over the decades, including a florid mural and plywood silhouettes of human figures.
Not all of the building, which the nonprofit Friends of the Mozartina Arts Conservatory bought in 1980 when it was in danger of being torn down, is so charming. Though its leaks have been plugged, its dressing rooms are due for an upgrade, and its balcony carpet is frayed. But the lack of polish appears only to enhance the building's authenticity for the locally and nationally known performers who keep it hopping nearly 180 days a year, said Bjorn Olsson, executive director of the music hall.
The building's wood panels and beams also lend it superior acoustics, said the impresario Mark Morganelli, who has presented shows at most of the metropolitan region's major concert halls. Last month, at a performance that filled about half of the theater's 843 seats -- an acceptable turnout for music with classical content, according to Mr. Olsson -- the unamplified sounds of the Canadian Brass were clear and well received by patrons in the balcony's rear seats.
Though attendance has leveled off after several years of rapid expansion, ticket sales and bookings remain strong despite the recession, Mr. Olsson said. The jazz pianist Dave Brubeck and the pop singer Cyndi Lauper each sold out last month, as did the rock guitarist Gregg Allman on New Year's Day. In the coming months, Mr. Morganelli may augment his standard jazz presentations at the music hall with blues and comedy. And while classical music and dance are underrepresented, that could change if Mr. Olsson secures sponsors for such programming.
''It's only in the last few years that we've started raising money,'' Mr. Olsson said.
Raising money is a constant struggle in the nonprofit arts world, perhaps nowhere more than at the Stamford Center for the Arts. In August 2008 -- three years after renovating the terra-cotta entrance and expanding the lobby of its 1,570-seat Palace Theater -- the center declared bankruptcy. But now, after an economic restructuring, the center is on the upswing with a more conservative operating philosophy, said Elissa Getto, the executive director.
''Generally speaking, arts and entertainment are far more risk-averse than they've ever been,'' Ms. Getto said.
She said that the center was leaving most of its main-stage producing to others but was seeking to present acts in its expanded lobby, which can now accommodate at least 125 patrons. Similarly, the Garde is staging intimate performances in a room carved out of office space. And in Peekskill, N.Y., the Paramount Center for the Arts has created an upper-level gallery to host the work of visual artists, sometimes in concert with live music, said Pat Braja, the acting executive director.
The move toward making better use of smaller spaces comes as renovations are reducing seating capacity in bigger rooms. A restoration of the 1921 Picture House in Pelham, N.Y., a fulltime movie theater on which work is scheduled to be finished in March, will reduce capacity by 83, leaving 310 seats. At the Paramount, a multiphase renovation has reduced capacity by 500, leaving 1,024 seats -- some 450 fewer than at the Garde, where Mr. Sigel is considering installing a retractable curtain that would hang from the balcony and act as a kind of rear wall at shows for which many tickets remain unsold.
But, given the right circumstances, even the biggest theaters can sell out. In May 2009, the singer-songwriter Leonard Cohen filled the 2,592-seat Palace Theater in Waterbury, despite ticket prices as high as $250, said Frank Tavera, the executive director. Likewise, he said, touring Broadway shows regularly draw big crowds at the Palace, where a $30 million structural redesign has eased the way for elaborate productions.
Such successes, he said, reflect the Palace's ability to distinguish itself in the marketplace. Having forged a reputation as a home for rock acts in decades past, he said, the Palace held a natural attraction for Mr. Cohen and his fans. As for the musicals' success, he said, the Palace has established itself as a stop for Broadway productions, a tack that complements the successful community theater approach offered at the 1,772-seat Warner Theater in Torrington.
Mr. Tavera said that this kind of coordinated competition was emblematic of the way historic movie houses were transforming themselves, shaping ''distinct markets'' for their fare by serving their communities' entertainment and artistic needs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TIMEWORN SPLENDOR: The lobby of the Palace Theater in Waterbury, left, where touring Broadway shows draw big crowds. At right and below, Tarrytown Music Hall, Westchester's oldest theater, which opened in 1985, became a movie house in the 1930s and today attracts locally and nationally known performers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOU BELLOISY
ABOVE AND BELOW BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAKEOVERS At the Palace Theater in Waterbury, left, a $30 million structural redesign prepared the way for elaborate productions. At the Paramount Center for the Arts, in Peekskill, N.Y., right, a multiphase renovation included the addition of an upper-level art gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOU BELLOISY
 DAN SHEARER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCE (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (76%); MUSIC (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRADE SHOWS (65%); THEATER (57%); CHILDREN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



58 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Universities Are Challenged as Demographics Shift

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON and JON MARCUS. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
In August, 60 years after the University of Texas admitted its first black student, the school welcomed the first freshman class in which white students were in the minority.
White students, who accounted for 51 percent of U.T.'s freshman class in 2009, made up 48 percent in 2010. Black and Hispanic students represented about 5 percent and 23 percent, respectively, with Asians and other races making up the rest.
The state's flagship university passed the demographic milestone earlier than some had anticipated, reflecting a similar shift that is rapidly taking place at other top-level educational institutions across the country.
Although the changing demographics of college campuses may be grabbing the headlines, the more compelling issue is how the growing number of minority students presents serious social and academic challenges for financially strapped universities, even as the schools are under pressure to boost graduation rates. 
Nationally, 52 percent of Hispanic students and 58 percent of black students are unable to earn a bachelor's degree in six years, compared with 40 percent of white students, according to the National Center for Education Statistics.
''What is increasingly evident now that wasn't evident 10 or 20 years ago is the extent to which this is a national phenomenon,'' said Steve Murdock, a sociology professor at Rice University and previously the state demographer of Texas and head of the United States Census Bureau. ''This is not a Texas issue. It's not a California issue. It's a national issue.''
For the United States to maintain -- let alone grow -- a college-educated work force, Mr. Murdock said, those graduation numbers will have to change.
Stan Jones, former Indiana commissioner of higher education and the current president of Complete College America, a national nonprofit group dedicated to boosting the number of college graduates, said the numbers have been telling the story for years. ''But it hasn't necessarily gotten through to policy-makers that this was going on, and clearly not to the general public,'' Mr. Jones said. ''All of us are seeing it happening faster than we had expected.''
For example, although their birth rate is growing at a significant clip, Mr. Jones said, Hispanics do not graduate from high school, go on to college or graduate in the same numbers as white students. ''If you look at the freshman class everywhere in this country, it is more representative than it's ever been,'' he said. ''But in four years, if you look at the graduating class, it is not going to be representative of the country, because many of those students from the underrepresented groups won't make it to graduation.''
Educators give several reasons for the disparity, including economic differences, the comparative quality of college preparation at urban, rural and suburban schools, and a sense of isolation among those who are the first in their families to go to college.
''These are terrific students,'' said William Powers Jr., president of U.T. ''Often, they may have gone to a high school where they didn't have a calculus class or Advanced Placement classes. The challenges are also financial and what I call cultural. They might be away from home, and they don't have parents and aunts and uncles who have already been here.''
In 2007, recognizing the demographic shift -- and its accompanying challenges -- U.T. set up a Division of Diversity and Community Engagement. With an annual budget of $30.4 million, it encourages minority high school students to apply to college and then supports them with a complex framework of programs that include tutoring and personal advising.
''The question is, can we get them the support to help them over the gaps?'' said Gregory J. Vincent, vice president of diversity and community engagement.
The results, so far, have been promising. Generally, students in the division's programs have grade point averages and retention rates as good as or better than the average in their respective classes. ''The good news is that our students come highly motivated, so our challenges aren't as great as you'd expect, despite assumptions some people might make about their backgrounds,'' said Aileen Bumphus, executive director of the Gateway Program, an initiative under the Diversity and Community Engagement umbrella that works with about 300 first-generation students in each class.
Such programs have been crucial for students like Oscar Ayala, a U.T. senior from Houston who majors in biomedical engineering. Both of his parents are from Mexico, and neither attended college. ''When it came time in high school to get ready for college, I didn't know what that meant,'' Mr. Ayala said.
But that success may prove difficult to maintain, depending in large part on decisions the Texas Legislature will make this year to confront a budget shortfall that could reach $20 billion or more. About $5 million of the Division of Diversity and Community Engagement budget comes from state money. Educators are particularly worried about cuts to the state's largest financial aid program, which primarily serves minority students.
Robert S. Nelsen, president of the University of Texas-Pan American, a South Texas institution that is 89 percent Hispanic, said cuts to the aid program would be ''devastating'' to the area.
U.T.'s main campus is not immune from the tension caused by economic constraints. In November, a faculty panel proposed deep cuts to the ethnic studies programs, including the John L. Warfield Center for African and African American Students, the Center for Asian American Studies and the Center for Mexican American Studies. Once the panel's recommendations were made public, about 150 students and faculty members protested, many accusing the administration of racism. University administrators have since said the proposed cuts will be scaled back.
But the incident highlighted the fact that increased diversity does not necessarily mean increased harmony or interaction on a campus where you can see a statue of Jefferson Davis, the Confederate president, not far from new memorials to Mexican-American labor leader Cesar Chavez and Barbara Jordan, the first black woman elected to Congress from the South.
Kacie Sebek, a senior from Houston, who is white, said she has seen classmates from predominantly white hometowns appear uncomfortable. ''You have someone closed off in their own neighborhood, and suddenly they're in a world where people are different,'' she said.
Mr. Ayala, who was surprised by the dearth of Hispanics in his engineering programs, said students gravitate toward those with similar backgrounds. ''As I started realizing who hangs out with who, I see that it's not as diversified as it could be,'' he said. ''But I know it can keep moving forward.''
Still, most U.T. students hardly noticed the demographic milestone reached by the current freshman class. ''If you want to take sort of a benchmark of how we've progressed over 20 years, it would be that this went more unrecognized than you might have expected it to,'' said Mr. Powers, the university's president. ''That, in itself, is a milestone.''
This article was produced by The Texas Tribune in partnership with The Hechinger Report, a nonprofit, nonpartisan education-news outlet affiliated with the Hechinger Institute on Education and the Media, based at Teachers College, Columbia University.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sunday about the demographic shift at the University of Texas had an incorrect credit for the picture. It is Spencer Selvidge, not Caleb Bryant Miller.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The University of Texas faces pressure to improve graduation rates amid tighter budgets as more minority students enroll. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB BRYANT MILLER/ THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (96%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CENSUS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); RICE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



59 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Coupons for Patients, but Higher Bills for Insurers

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
EXECUTIVES of a small insurance company in Albany were mystified when, almost overnight, its payments for a certain class of antibiotics nearly doubled, threatening to add about a half-million dollars annually in costs.
The reason, it turned out, was that patients were using a card distributed by the maker of an expensive antibiotic used to treat acne, sharply reducing their insurance co-payments. With their out-of-pocket costs much lower, consumers had switched from generic alternatives to the more expensive drug.
With drug prices rising and many people out of work, pharmaceutical companies are increasingly helping patients with their co-payments. The use of such co-payment cards and coupons and other types of discounts has more than tripled since mid-2006, according to IMS Health, an information company that tracks the pharmaceutical industry.
Last month, for instance, Pfizer introduced a new card that can reduce the co-pay on its blockbuster drug Lipitor to $4 a month, a savings of up to $50. That brings the out-of-pocket cost in line with what consumers might pay at Wal-Mart for a generic version of a competing cholesterol-lowering drug. 
Drug companies say the plans help some patients afford medicines that they otherwise could not.
But health insurers and some consumer groups say that in many cases, the coupons are just marketing gimmicks that are leading to an overall increase in health care costs. That is because they circumvent the system of higher co-pays on costlier drugs that insurers use to encourage consumers to use less expensive products.
''The member is somewhat insulated from the cost of the prescription,'' said Kevin Slavik, senior director of pharmacy at the Health Care Service Corporation, which runs Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans in Illinois and three other states. ''In essence, it drives up the total cost of providing the prescription benefit.''
The Food and Drug Administration, meanwhile, is studying the effect of the discounts on consumer perceptions, concerned that the coupons will make consumers believe that a drug is safer or better than it really is.
The acne drug that produced higher costs in 2008 for the Albany insurance company was Solodyn, a once-a-day formulation of an antibiotic called minocycline. A month's supply of Solodyn sells for more than $700 on drugstore.com, compared with about $40 a month for capsules of generic minocycline, which are generally taken twice a day.
Executives at Medicis, the company that sells Solodyn, have told investors that the co-payment card is used by an ''overwhelming majority'' of patients, and is largely responsible for doubling use of the drug, to 26,000 prescriptions a week.
Co-payment coupons and cards are distributed by drug company sales representatives to doctors, and are also often available directly to patients over the Internet. Patients present them at the drugstore when paying for their prescriptions.
Any shift to brand-name drugs can have a big impact on health care costs.
At District Council 37, a union representing public employees in New York City, 59 percent of claims for statins in the year ended in June 2009 were for brand-name products that cost the plan $17.3 million. The other 41 percent of claims were for generic statins, which cost only $179,000. A year ago, the health plan eliminated the co-pay on generic statins to encourage more use of them.
For very expensive drugs, co-pay assistance is almost de rigueur, because in some cases co-payments can be up to 20 percent of the price of the drug. Novartis's new pill for multiple sclerosis, Gilenya, costs $48,000 a year, compared with $30,000 to $40,000 for rival drugs, which are injected. Novartis is offering to cover the entire co-pay, up to $800 a month, which is 20 percent of the drug's monthly cost.
''It seems the best strategy for a pharmaceutical company is to price their drug as high as they possibly can and offer that co-pay assistance broadly'' to insulate consumers, said Joshua Schimmer, biotechnology analyst at Leerink Swann, an investment bank.
Jazz Pharmaceuticals has quadrupled the price of its narcolepsy drug Xyrem, to about $30,000 a year, over the last five years, according to a recent report from the securities firm Jefferies & Company. To cushion patients, the company recently increased its co-pay assistance to as much as $1,200 a month.
''We do want to avoid big jumps in price, abrupt changes in price, which can have a negative impact on payers, physicians and, most importantly, patients,'' Robert M. Myers, Jazz's president, told analysts in November, as the company increased Xyrem's price by 22 percent. He added: ''The coupon program, I will point out, does help patients get low monthly out-of-pocket costs, and this is a program that we are definitely committed to.''
Drug companies defend the coupons, saying they are helpful to consumers and allow patients and doctors to make decisions based on medical reasons, not costs. In many cases, such as with Lipitor and Solodyn, the rival drugs are not exact generics.
Jonah Shacknai, the chief executive of Medicis, said Solodyn's once-a-day formulation reduces side effects and makes it easier for people to take their medicine. He also said many insurers paid far less for the drug than the price on drugstore.com.
''No one is forcing anyone to prescribe Solodyn,'' he said. ''We think the public wins because we have facilitated access to a product that dermatologists are eager to prescribe.''
Amgen is offering to defray co-payments in excess of $25 per month for its new drug Xgeva, which helps prevent fractures caused by cancer that has spread to bones. In some clinical trials sponsored by Amgen, Xgeva proved more effective than its competitor, Zometa from Novartis, but at $1,650 a month, Xgeva's wholesale price is twice as much.
The co-pay assistance is aimed at ensuring that differences in co-payments between the two drugs ''aren't driving medical decisions,'' said Joshua J. Ofman, vice president for reimbursement and payment policy at Amgen.
Companies also say that lower co-payments help patients stay on their medicines. Studies have shown that patients are more likely to quit taking their drugs when the co-pay is high.
Drug companies cannot offer co-payment assistance for patients in federal programs like Medicare because such offers are considered an inducement to use a drug and in violation of anti-kickback laws. Some companies have responded by contributing to, or even helping to set up, charitable foundations that can provide co-payment assistance legally.
Massachusetts also bars drug company coupons, and on similar grounds. It is the only state to do so.
That became an issue for Tamara Starr, 25, a graduate student in journalism, when she moved from New York to Boston in 2008. In New York, she paid only $25 for a three-month supply of Betaseron, the Bayer drug that she uses to treat multiple sclerosis.
But in Boston, her co-pay is $75 a month. She said she was taking the drug as little as once a month, instead of every other day as she was supposed to. She has been hospitalized three times in the last year with symptoms from her disease, like vision loss. ''I don't want to make the choice of paying that $75 a month or putting that $75 toward my groceries,'' Ms. Starr said.
Last spring, the Massachusetts House of Representatives voted 156 to 0 to repeal the ban on coupons. The state Senate eventually passed a more narrowly worded repeal, but it came too late in the session for the two bills to be reconciled.
EXECUTIVES at insurers and pharmacy benefit management companies say they would like to counter the cards and coupons but are not sure exactly how to do so. One problem is that the information they receive from pharmacies does not specify whether the co-pay was made by the patient or by the drug company.
''The payer doesn't know, and the P.B.M. doesn't know,'' said F. Everett Neville, chief trade relations officer at Express Scripts, a pharmacy benefits manager. ''We have no ability to stop it and no ability to prohibit it.''
Analysts at Leerink Swann recently said a backlash against co-pay assistance might be inevitable but is not likely to happen in 2011.
Eileen Wood, a vice president at the Albany insurance company, Capital District Physicians' Health Plan, found her own solution. Her company started requiring patients to try the generic before using Solodyn. The cost per claim dropped back down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After moving to Massachusetts, Tamara Starr could no longer receive the co-pay discount that was available to her when she lived in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LUTCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 Eileen Wood, of a health care plan in Albany, with co-pay coupons. Her company told patients to try generics first. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TIME RELEASE DRUGS (71%); ACNE (71%); PHARMACIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); SALES FORCE (60%); CHOLESTEROL (52%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (90%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (65%); IMS HEALTH INC (56%); HEALTH CARE SERVICE CORP (53%); BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF TEXAS (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (65%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011



60 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Serious About His Vacation. And, Please, No Shirtless Shots.

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
HONOLULU -- President Obama has accomplished something extraordinary during his Hawaiian escape from Washington: his White House has gone dark for more than a week.
Here on Oahu, where Mr. Obama and his family are staying in a luxury oceanfront rental home in the sleepy town of Kailua, the president is cloaked in the comfort of a news-free zone. The public does not see much of him, except for when he is zipping by in his armored sport utility vehicle, and it does not much seem to care.
Images of the president at leisure -- sharing a Hawaiian shave ice with daughters Malia and Sasha, golfing, dining out with his wife -- have trickled out, orchestrated by aides who have also taken care to allow pictures of the president at church and visiting the troops on Christmas Day. His advisers calculate that there has been roughly one photo opportunity every day and a half. 
News photographers are grousing. They were kept at a safe distance and given strict instructions to put away their telephoto lenses when the Obama family went snorkeling on Tuesday at the Hanauma Bay Nature Preserve, where green sea turtles and fish in all shapes and colors dart in and out of a coral reef. (The president does not want to be photographed with his shirt off, and the preserve is closed on Tuesdays, so the public was not around, either.)
Mr. Obama spent Thursday on the island's North Shore, which is famous for its monster waves and the sweet, succulent shrimp that are sold from trucks on the side of the road. But there was no presidential sighting; he was tucked away at the beachfront home of his childhood friend Bobby Titcomb, who throws an annual barbecue for the Hawaiian White House.
On Friday, the president played golf -- his fourth round so far this trip -- and he spent a quiet New Year's Eve at home, a gathering that included a talent show with family and friends, an annual Obama tradition. Again, no photos.
''There haven't been many pictures, and there haven't been many stories,'' said Julian Zelizer, a historian at Princeton. ''Part of it is that the allure is gone. The president and his family on vacation are less interesting; the Camelot glow is gone, so people just don't care as much.
''And I think the White House is extraordinarily cautious about getting the right pictures out there, not sending the wrong message, because going off to Hawaii two years into a recession when a lot of people are unemployed does not come off well,'' he said. ''You don't want the president bodysurfing when the public doesn't have a job.''
Mike McCurry, who served as one of President Bill Clinton's press secretaries, says the one image the public has not seen thus far this trip is of Mr. Obama reading. ''Believe me,'' Mr. McCurry said, ''by the time the vacation is over, you'll have a picture of him studying some manual.''
Maybe, maybe not. As has been reported, Mr. Obama brought along Lou Cannon's biography of Ronald Reagan, another president who was confronted with a divided Congress. But he also brought two novels, ''The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet,'' a historical romance by David Mitchell about a Dutchman in Edo-era Japan, and ''Our Kind of Traitor,'' by the spy novelist John le Carre. The president's wife makes a brief guest appearance in the le Carre book; in one passage, characters cannot visit the gardens of the Champs-Elysees in Paris because ''Michelle Obama and her children are in town.''
Fortunately for Mr. Obama, no crisis has demanded his attention, as was the case last year when a Nigerian was accused of trying to blow up a passenger jet that was bound for Detroit.
And the people of Oahu seem content to let the president be. Gov. Neil Abercrombie explained their attitude in a recent interview by describing a drawing by Corky Trinidad, an acclaimed political cartoonist here who died in 2009. It shows Mr. Obama sleeping on a beach next to an endangered Hawaiian monk seal, a creature that Hawaiians know must not be disturbed.
''There was a little rope around them,'' Mr. Abercrombie said, ''and people were putting their fingers up to their mouths going, 'Shhhh.' ''
Analysts say Mr. Obama's Hawaiian disappearing act carries little political risk, in part because the public has just watched him slog through a difficult but productive lame-duck session of Congress. And there is an upside to peace and quiet for a president who is wrapping up one rough year and preparing for another, said Martha Joynt Kumar, a political scientist at Towson University in Maryland who studies the presidency and the press.
''The amount of time that he has had by himself is important for thinking and long-range planning,'' Professor Kumar said. ''You can do a type of thinking in these kinds of circumstances that you can't at the White House. It just gives you time to develop perspective.''
Advisers to Mr. Obama, who is scheduled to leave here for Washington on Monday night, say he is indeed giving some thought to a range of topics: his State of the Union address, expected in late January; his budget; his legislative agenda; his relations with Congress; and a staff reshuffling that will include the selection of a new deputy chief of staff and a replacement for Lawrence H. Summers, the president's top economic adviser, who returned to Harvard to teach.
But Mr. Obama has not risked any public utterances on these or other matters; his announcement on Wednesday that he was bypassing the Senate to make six recess appointments was done with a news release.
''They have managed to figure out how to really go into what amounts to a full lid on the news,'' Mr. McCurry said with a degree of admiration. He said Mr. Obama is smart to lie low, because the public is not paying attention anyway. ''I think what's worse is when they try to make some pretense that they're actually doing work in between golf rounds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Security teams guarding the canal by the compound where President Obama and his family are vacationing. The president is to leave for Washington on Monday. (POOL PHOTO BY KENT NISHIMURA)
 A woman in Kailua, Hawaii, showed her support for Mr. Obama on Friday. The public has seen little of him on his Oahu trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); WATER SPORTS (75%); SURFING (75%); GOLF (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); HISTORY (66%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (91%) HAWAII, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



61 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Offering Help (Carefully) To Jobless Friends

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''IF I hear of something, I'll let you know.''
Jobless people often hear this from friends and relatives, because the impulse to help is strong. But there is much more that people can do to help those who have been sidelined by the economic crisis. And there are things they can unwittingly do to make them feel worse.
First, when listening to unemployed friends or relatives, recognize that they have experienced a profound loss, said Nancy Molitor, a public education coordinator for the American Psychological Association and a psychologist in private practice in Wilmette, Ill. 
But go easy on the pity. ''No one wants to feel like they're a victim on a regular basis,'' Dr. Molitor said. When you continually show pity for a jobless person, ''you're putting yourself in the strong position, and the other person feels weaker and weaker,'' she said.
Asking questions like ''Have you sent out any more resumes?'' or ''Have you called any more people?'' is also counterproductive, Dr. Molitor said. Expressing worry is a way for friends or family members to deal with their own anxiety over the situation, she noted, but it often serves to transfer anxiety to the jobless person.
And most people do want another job and are making good faith efforts to find one, she added.
Serve as a sounding board, while refraining from judgments or criticism, said Alison Doyle, a job search specialist for About.com, which is owned by The New York Times Company.
The jobless -- and especially the long-term jobless -- are afraid of being seen as slackers, Ms. Doyle said. Too often, she said, friends and family think they could find a job if they just tried hard enough.
But the unemployed are facing unusually harsh economic conditions. Of the 15 million Americans out of work, more than 40 percent have been unemployed for six months or more.
The unemployed don't operate on a seniority system, where the people who have been jobless the longest are the first up for new jobs. The sad fact is that someone who has been out of work for just a few months may look more desirable to a hiring manager than the person who was laid off at the height of the economic crisis, Ms. Doyle said.
Older job seekers can face especially high hurdles, said Ford R. Myers, a career coach, author and the president of Career Potential in the Philadelphia area. Some had been working steadily for 20 or 30 years before they were let go; they are unfamiliar with the newer ways of looking for jobs and facing age discrimination for the first time in their lives, he said.
Whatever their age, many people who have been laid off are struggling financially. It's possible that someone who appears to be doing fine is actually running out of savings and on the verge of foreclosure.
''Most people, if they've been unemployed for more than a couple of months, can use your help if you can afford to give it to them,'' Ms. Doyle said.
But tread carefully when offering a loan or gift. Some people are embarrassed by financial woes, Ms. Doyle said. She said she and her friends once chipped in to buy a supermarket gift card for an out-of-work friend and sent it anonymously because they knew the woman wouldn't accept it otherwise.
Keep your eyes open for short-term work for unemployed friends or relatives. Projects in their field would be ideal, of course. But you could even pay a job seeker to take care of your pet when you're away, Ms. Doyle said.
If you're not sure what kind of work someone is willing to do, ask questions very delicately, because the line between helping and offending can be fine. One person may be delighted to earn a little extra money by shoveling your driveway, whereas someone else may be insulted, Ms. Doyle said.
You can also help in many other ways. For example, offer to proofread a resume and cover letters, Ms. Doyle said. See if there are job openings at your own company -- you may even get a referral bonus. If you have worked with the person previously, you can write a recommendation for him or her on LinkedIn, she added.
For those with young children, offer to baby-sit during job interviews if you can, Ms. Doyle said -- or drive them to interviews if they don't have their own transportation. These seemingly small actions speak volumes about your feelings for a loved one.
BOTH through their deeds and words, ''close friends can do an awful lot,'' Dr. Molitor said.
''When you go through something like this, you find out who your good friends are,'' she said. Sometimes, the people you thought were your friends stop calling because you can't maintain the same lifestyle, she added.
Jobless friends don't have the plague, Dr. Molitor said. ''Include them in your life just like you normally would,'' she said, ''but be sensitive about expenses when you go out together.''
And close friends and family should be aware that unemployed people -- especially those out of work for an extended period -- can be at high risk for depression, she said. If, over two weeks or more, they are isolating themselves and continually expressing negative and self-defeating thoughts, it may be time to refer them to a mental health professional, she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); DISCRIMINATION (60%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); ABOUT.COM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



62 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: How to Break Bread With the Republicans

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
DEAR President Obama:
Sorry to bother you. I know you are busy. But I have the sense that you could use a few words of advice.
In a matter of days, Republicans will control the House of Representatives and have a larger voting bloc in the Senate. If economic policy is to make any progress over the next two years, you really will have to be bipartisan. To do so, you'll need to get inside the heads of the opposition.
I am here to help. As a sometime adviser to Republicans, I'd like to offer a few guidelines to understanding their approach to economic policy. Follow these rules of thumb and your job will be a lot easier. 
FOCUS ON THE LONG RUN Charles L. Schultze, chief economist for former President Jimmy Carter, once proposed a simple test for telling a conservative economist from a liberal one. Ask each to fill in the blanks in this sentence with the words ''long'' and ''short'': ''Take care of the -------- run and the -------- run will take care of itself.''
Liberals, Mr. Schultze suggested, tend to worry most about short-run policy. And, indeed, starting with the stimulus package in early 2009, your economic policy has focused on the short-run problem of promoting recovery from the financial crisis and economic downturn.
But now it is time to pivot and address the long-term fiscal problem. In last year's proposed budget, you projected a rising debt-to-G.D.P. ratio for as far as the eye can see. That is not sustainable. Conservatives believe that if the nation credibly addresses this long-term problem, such a change will bolster confidence and have positive short-run effects as well.
Fortunately, the fiscal commission you appointed assembled a good set of spending and tax reforms. The question you now face is whether to embrace their sensible but politically difficult proposals in your own budget.
THINK AT THE MARGIN Republicans worry about the adverse incentive effects of high marginal tax rates. A marginal tax rate is the additional tax that a person pays on an extra dollar of income.
From this perspective, many of the tax cuts you have championed look more like tax increases. For example, the so-called Making Work Pay Tax Credit is phased out for individuals making more than $75,000 a year. That is, because many Americans lose some of the credit as they earn more, the credit reduces their incentive to work. In effect, it is an increase in their marginal tax rate.
From the standpoint of incentives, a tax cut is worthy of its name only if it increases the reward for earning additional income.
STOP TRYING TO SPREAD THE WEALTH Ever since your famous exchange with Joe the Plumber, it has been clear that you believe that the redistribution of income is a crucial function of government. A long philosophical tradition supports your view. It includes John Rawls's treatise ''A Theory of Justice,'' which concludes that the main goal of public policy should be to transfer resources to those at the bottom of the economic ladder.
Many Republicans, however, reject this view of the state. From their perspective, it is not the proper role of government to fix the income distribution in an attempt to achieve some utopian vision of fairness. They believe, instead, that in a free society, people make money when they produce goods and services that others value, and that, as a result, what they earn is rightfully theirs.
This view also has a long intellectual tradition. The libertarian philosopher Robert Nozick has suggested revising the old leftist slogan ''From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs'' to ''From each as they choose, to each as they are chosen.''
SPREAD OPPORTUNITY INSTEAD Despite their rejection of spreading the wealth, Republicans recognize that times are hard for the less fortunate. Their solution is not to adjust the slices of the economic pie, as if they had been doled out by careless cutting, but to expand the pie by providing greater opportunity for all.
Since the mid-1970s, the gap between rich and poor has grown considerably. One of best analyses of this long-term trend is by the Harvard economics professors Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz in their book, ''The Race Between Education and Technology.'' The authors conclude that widening inequality is largely a symptom of the educational system's failure to provide enough skilled workers to keep up with the ever increasing demand.
Educational reform, therefore, should be a high priority. To be sure, this is easier said than done. But research suggests that one key is getting rid of bad teachers. In a recent study, the economist Eric Hanushek says that ''replacing the bottom 5 to 8 percent of teachers with average teachers could move the U.S. near the top of international math and science rankings.''
DON'T MAKE THE OPPOSITION YOUR ENEMY Last month, when you struck your tax deal with Republican leaders, you said you were negotiating with ''hostage takers.'' In the future, please choose your metaphors more carefully.
Republicans are not terrorists. They are not the enemy. Like you, they love their country, and they want what is best for the American people. They just have a different judgment about what that is.
Let me propose a New Year's resolution for you: Have a beer with a Republican at least once a week. The two of you won't necessarily agree, but you might end up with a bit more respect for each other's differences.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); TAX REFORM (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



63 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: The Economy in 2011

 BODY:
When people say that the recovery does not feel like a recovery, they are describing reality. The economy is growing, but for many Americans life is not getting better. Unemployment remains high. Home values are depressed. And state budgets are in deep trouble, presaging more layoffs, service cuts and tax increases. 
The question for 2011 is whether growth will ever translate into broad prosperity.
For that to happen, the federal government must ensure that the recovery does not falter for lack of adequate stimulus, while fostering job-creating industries and committing itself to long-term deficit reduction.
With corporate profits robust and a one-year payroll tax cut set to start this month, there are reasons to hope for continued growth in 2011. Yet, growth is not expected to be strong enough to make a real dent in unemployment, which at 9.8 percent remains close to the recession's peak of 10.2 percent in October 2009.
Rising corporate profits should spur hiring, but recent history is not encouraging. Part of the problem is that companies are more apt to spend their cash on stock buy-backs and acquisitions that increase share prices but not hiring. Many companies that are hiring are doing it in fast-growing markets like China and India.
The rift between recovery and prosperity is also painfully evident in housing. Prices are likely to fall another 5 percent in 2011, as unemployment-related defaults and the failure to adequately address the foreclosure crisis add to the inventory of unsold homes. Some two million homes will probably be lost in 2011, on top of 6.8 million homes lost in the bust so far.
Joblessness and the housing bust will continue to batter state and city budgets in 2011. Promises by so many newly elected state officials to balance their budgets without raising any taxes are not only cynical, they are a recipe for more crises to come.
President Obama's recent tax-cut deal with the Republicans included measures to support growth, notably extended unemployment benefits, and the payroll tax cut. Deep state budget cuts could offset much of that, unless Congress funnels more aid to states. The administration must continue to press banks for more and better mortgage workouts to help borrowers keep their homes.
Such efforts, while vital, are only the start. Competing in a global economy requires spare-no-expense effort to improve education. And Washington needs to do a lot more to help create globally competitive industries with jobs that pay well. We have heard President Obama talk about green jobs and rebuilding the nation's infrastructure. The country and the economy need a big idea and a big project to move forward.
The federal deficit must be addressed. But cutting too deep, too fast will stall the recovery. There will have to be painful cuts ahead, and everything will have to be on the table, including entitlements and defense. Despite what the Republicans claim, there is no way to tackle the deficit and keep growing without raising taxes.
President Obama will need to make that case clearly in 2011 and challenge politicians -- from both parties -- to do what is necessary to ensure real prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



64 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stepping Up Fight on Afghan Smuggling

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAMBER; Sharifullah Sahak and an employee of The New York Times contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Janet Napolitano, the United States homeland security secretary, said Saturday that her department planned to triple the number of agents in Afghanistan to train border and customs workers -- an effort that is partly aimed at curbing the smuggling of cash out of the country. 
The department is sending 52 former agents, who will work on contract, to reinforce the 25 agents currently in Afghanistan.
Ms. Napolitano was visiting the country for two days to inspect border crossings and meet with government leaders, including President Hamid Karzai.
The United States Embassy estimates that $10 million a day leaves Afghanistan by plane bound for Dubai, United Arab Emirates -- some of it the proceeds from illegal activities.
According to a secret cable released by WikiLeaks, Ahmed Zia Massoud, a former Afghan vice president, visited the United Arab Emirates last year carrying $52 million in cash. Mr. Massoud has denied the report.
Beyond the flow of money to Dubai, millions of dollars more are believed to be smuggled through border crossings, and American officials fear at least some of the money is being funneled to Afghan insurgents taking shelter in Pakistan's tribal regions.
In addition to providing training for Afghanistan's Customs Department, the additional agents are to help with the transition from military to civilian control of border crossings, where Afghan officials and others say that bribes are often used to avoid inspections of black-market goods, including drugs.
''Border protection will lead to customs revenues and legitimate trade,'' Ms. Napolitano said. ''Then Afghanistan will have money for social services and education.''
Ms. Napolitano and other Homeland Security Department officials flew over the Torkham Gate border crossing with Pakistan because a ground visit was deemed too dangerous. Torkham, a chaotic border station near the Khyber Pass on Afghanistan's eastern border, is believed to be a major crossing point for smugglers.
A high-ranking Afghan official, who works at Torkham and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that another border official had taken hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes and that he has been pressed to do so as well.
''Government officials in Jalalabad pressure me to take bribes and give part of the money to them,'' he said, referring to officials in the provincial capital.
Travelers say they routinely pass through Torkham without being asked for identification or having their goods inspected. On the rare occasions that they are confronted by border officers, a small bribe gets them through the crossing, many say.
Mohammad Asif, who has a business in Kabul selling laptop computers, crosses into Pakistan twice a month to buy parts and computers.
''Crossing the border is very easy for us without having a passport or any other kind of identification cards,'' he said. ''The Pakistani and Afghan border forces ask you only to pay them money -- it doesn't matter what you have and what you are bringing into the country.''
Also on Saturday, an unidentified coalition service member died when an improvised explosive device detonated in southern Afghanistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); BRIBERY (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



65 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: In 2010, Clouds Parted to a Forecast of Sunnier Days

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
THE last year in automobiles could have been mistaken for an episode of ''Survivor,'' only set in the urban jungle of Detroit rather than some tropical backwater.
As industry players retrenched and gritted their teeth for challenges to come, the 2010 season featured heroes and villains, new alliances, narrow escapes and thrilling reversals of fortune.
For some played-out brands, there was no room on the shrinking island. General Motors shut down its Pontiac division, while Ford Motor began closing the doors of its redundant Mercury brand.
Business remained miserable, just not as miserable as 2009, when the industry's 10.4 million sales were the worst since 1982. With this year's tally inching back to roughly 11.5 million, as projected by Edmunds.com, many automakers can, and will, crow about double-digit increases. But compared with the 16 million to 17 million sales that were routine before the recession, that's akin to boasting that this year, you broke only one rib while getting punched in the gut. 
The tight credit that had crimped sales in 2009 loosened a bit. Experian Automotive reported that subprime loans rose in the third quarter while delinquencies fell, the first time either had happened since 2007. But the value of outstanding car loans dropped by $38 billion in the quarter, a sign that many Americans are holding onto their cars and steering clear of dealerships.
For heroes and high ratings, it was hard to top Ford's Alan Mulally Jr., the former chief executive of Boeing's commercial airplanes division who oversaw Ford's brisk return to profitability -- and with no need for the government's largess as at G.M. and Chrysler. That independence left Ford with no small measure of public good will, and consumers snapped up enough Mustangs, Fusions and F-150s to add billions to Ford's bottom line.
Having demonstrated such skill in turning around the Ford family's auto interests, perhaps Mr. Mulally would consider taking over the Detroit Lions as well -- this time sidelining the branch of the Fords that has haplessly managed the team. (Then again, some challenges may be too great.)
There were ostensible villains and losers as well. Toyota's sales stalled as the company sought to limit damage from its unintended acceleration snafu and the resulting recalls of 7.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles for pedal-snagging floormats and sticky accelerators. Yet some self-serving attempts by Toyota's rivals to rewrite history -- as though Toyota's first major quality hiccup erased decades of proven reliability and consumer trust -- carried a whiff of wishful thinking.
Still, if any company seems determined to restore the old order in 2011, it's Toyota. Despite $49 million in federal fines, and with the recall frenzy fading from the headlines, Toyota by December had regained the No. 1 spot on consumers' shopping lists, according to Edmunds.com.
But even if its competitors laid on a too-thick helping of schadenfreude at times, Toyota's disgrace led some once-loyal customers to expand their shopping horizons and recognize a growing truth: Detroit continues to make strides in quality, performance and fuel economy, to the point that models like the Ford Fusion Hybrid, in the eyes of auto critics, can better their Asian counterparts.
The ''new'' G.M. shot back from bankruptcy into profitability, leaving opponents -- including politicians and states friendly to foreign automakers -- looking a bit Grinchy this holiday season for prematurely kicking dirt on G.M.'s grave and arguing to put its workers on unemployment lines.
To begin shedding its toxic Government Motors nickname, G.M. led a $23 billion initial public stock offering that reduced the federal stake from 61 percent to 33 percent. But G.M. stock will still have to reach lofty heights if American taxpayers are to recoup their entire involuntary investment in the auto industry.
New alliances provided ongoing entertainment, with prospects for either juicy disasters or stirring comebacks. The Chrysler-Fiat arranged marriage paired a blue-collar Midwesterner with an Italian sugar daddy, while Volvo's new reality, having been dropped from Ford's portfolio, began with lessons in Chinese under its new tutor, Geely.
Victor Muller, the entrepreneur who founded the modern Spyker, a tiny Dutch sports-car company, may be the year's ultimate underdog. If Mr. Muller can somehow rescue the floundering Swedish automaker after acquiring it from G.M., he may join Carlos Ghosn of Nissan and Lee A. Iacocca of Chrysler on the short list of industry saviors.
Chrysler, perhaps feeling the heat from G.M. and Ford's in-progress turnarounds, sought to remind the public that it was still here and retooling to earn its own profits. On sale next year in select Chrysler dealerships, the perky Fiat 500 minicar will be the Fiat brand's return to America after a 19-year absence.
And the Ford Explorer, along with Chrysler's Jeep Grand Cherokee -- once the S.U.V. kings of America, though all but living in exile in recent years -- are staging comeback attempts with smartly redesigned models that emphasize on-road handling and fuel economy rather than mountain-scaling skills.
Hyundai of South Korea continued its inexorable rise, setting another annual record with more than 530,000 sales, thanks to warmly received, recession-friendly models like the Sonata. By itself, that new midsize sedan improved sales by more than 90,000 units over last year, the biggest jump in volume for any single nameplate.
G.M.'s Buick, riding its new LaCrosse and Regal sedans, posted a roughly 51 percent improvement, tops among major car brands.
Audi also sold a record number of cars in America, asserting itself as perhaps the most formidable luxury up-and-comer against the more traditional segment leaders, BMW and Mercedes.
But Audi's parent, Volkswagen, displaying breathtaking chutzpah, continued to insist that it could triple its American sales by 2018, despite the continuing market slump and the rise of the Koreans. To that end, Volkswagen is wrapping up a new $1 billion plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., its first in the United States since closing its short-lived Pennsylvania factory in 1988.
Stable gas prices proved, again, that Americans prefer big even when their wallets feel small. Light truck sales, which includes pickups, minivans, S.U.V.'s and many crossovers, were on track to rise 17 percent. Yet hybrids dropped 8 percent, while small cars grew about 1 percent, according to projections by Edmunds.com.
Despite that chilly reception, automakers rolled out tiny models in anticipation of 2015 fuel economy standards and potential fuel price spikes. Detroit began to persuade people that it could compete in small cars. Ford's Fiesta hatchback arrived to favorable reviews, and its larger European stablemate, a sparkling all-new Focus, will finally come to America this spring. Chevrolet's Cruze represented G.M.'s latest bid for respect in a class still ruled by Japanese brands.
Automakers downsized engines as they upped the technology, adding direct fuel injection, turbocharging or supercharging to replace less thrifty engines of more size and cylinders. And 4-cylinder engines were showing up in the oddest places, from the Buick Regal to a forthcoming Explorer.
But more than anything, it was the year of the electric car. The first customers for the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid, and the Nissan Leaf, a battery-only E.V., received their cars in December. No models last year received more attention, adulation or skepticism, or incited as many Internet brawls. For the first time in years, green-car talk focused on G.M. and Nissan, rather than Toyota.
If plug-in cars finally gain a lasting foothold, serving notice to BP and OPEC alike that there's a new player in town, 2010 will be remembered as a watershed year. Early adopters entered a strange new world of grappling with red tape and permits to install home-charging docks, many subsidized through government grants. Companies, also backed by Energy Department financing, prepared to install E.V. charging stations, from major cities and highway corridors to Walgreens and Cracker Barrel restaurants, hoping to have 12,000 in operation by the end of 2011.
And with Chevy and Nissan splashing into the plug-in pool, and Ford, Toyota, Honda and others to follow, there may be long-term ripples for more than consumers. Smaller E.V. start-ups -- a mix of Tucker-esque visionaries, well-meaning strivers and a few outright charlatans -- may face even longer odds against international automakers, with their trusted names and vast resources in engineering, marketing and service networks.
That hasn't deterred newcomers like Fisker or Tesla, which began spending $1 billion in government loans to speed more luxurious electron-powered cars to market. Tesla went public in 2010, and its shareholders will check their watches for the Model S, a roughly $50,000 electric sedan that's supposed to arrive in 2012.
Even the world's most prestigious makers -- Porsche, Mercedes, Ferrari, Jaguar, Audi and more -- began engaging in electric one-upmanship. All showed either fully electric or hybrid models, with many destined for showrooms. The Porsche 918 Spyder Hybrid, a concept unveiled at the Geneva auto show that Porsche says will go 198 m.p.h. and return to 78 m.p.g., was perhaps the year's best fantasy of guilt-free performance. It should be, with an estimated $600,000 price tag.
Back in the real world, a moment of silence, please, for the hundreds of thousands of automaker employees, dealers and related workers who were cast aside for the future health of their companies. Michigan, which since 2000 has lost some 850,000 jobs, mostly in manufacturing, is expected to break the depressing streak and add jobs in each of the next two years, according to University of Michigan economists.
And from automakers, factories and suppliers to dealers, advertising agencies, rental counters and finally consumers, the clear hope is that the recovery gains more traction in 2011. If that happens, car fans will watch 2010 recede in their mirrors, and not miss it a bit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEBUTANTES: Clockwise from far left, a few newsmakers of 2010: Hyundai Sonata, Chevrolet Volt, Ford Explorer and Nissan Leaf. (AU1)
SMALL FAVORS: Left, Laura Soave and Sergio Marchionne, Fiat executives, with the 500. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBYN BECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
MEMORABLE MOMENTS: Above row, from left, the Porsche 918 Spyder Hybrid concept, with Michael Macht, Porsche's chief executive, at the wheel
a Toyota Camry gas pedal modified to prevent fouling by a floormat
Li Shufu, chairman of Geely, after the Chinese company bought Volvo Cars from Ford Motor. Left, the chief executive of General Motors, Daniel F. Akerson, at the New York Stock Exchange in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI DECK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); BOEING CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (79%); ALAN MULALLY (55%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



66 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; ; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3242 words

HEADLINE: Full Text of Cuomo's Inauguration Speech

 BODY:
Well, thank you and good afternoon to all of you. First let me begin by thanking the people of the State of New York for this tremendous honor. I am humbled to be their public servant, and I will honor their trust and their confidence every day. Thank you.
Let's all thank Chief Judge Lippman for a great job; thank you very much, chief judge. Thanks to Lt. Gov. Bob Duffy; he's going to be the second-best lieutenant governor in the history of the State of New York. Lt. Gov. Bob Duffy and his family, Barbara. To all of my colleagues, Comptroller Tom DiNapoli. Congratulations, Tom DiNapoli, on a great job. Our new attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, congratulations. Bill Clinton once said the attorney general's job was the best job he ever had, and he had a number of jobs. Congratulations, Eric Schneiderman. 
To Senator Dean Skelos, thank you very much for being with us today. Senator Skelos, thank you. Let's give him a round of applause. Senator Sampson, thank you for being with us, John. Majority Leader [Ron] Canestrari, thank you very much for being here. Regards to Speaker [Sheldon] Silver, who couldn't be with us today because of a religious observance. And to Minority Leader Brian Kolb, thank you very much for being with us. Thank you. Special thank you to Jerry Jennings. Didn't he do a great job as a master of ceremonies? A really great mayor, Jerry Jennings.
To a man who governed this state, at what will go down as one of the most difficult periods of time in the history of this state, I believe that. He became captain of the ship just when the ship was heading into a storm. And he warned us about the storm, and he brought us through the storm. He's done 25 years of public service, he's a personal friend of mine and to many people in this room, let's give a big round of applause to Gov. David Paterson. Thank you, Gov. David Paterson. Stand up, Gov. David Paterson.
He has been introduced, but I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge and point out and thank the 52nd governor of the State of New York, one of the greatest governors in the history of this state, a man who has taught us all very much in this room and who has taught me everything I know, Gov. Mario Cuomo and First Lady Matilda Cuomo.
To all of my family, I have so many family members here today if I start to point them out I'll miss someone and there'll be a whole family disturbance come the next holiday time. But to Sandy and my three girls: One quick story about the three girls that I was reminded of this morning. Election Day, we were going to go down to the election night headquarters, and it looks good, and it looks like we may win, and I want them to feel like they're part of this victory. So I said to them, you know, I don't think I could have done this without you. And Cara and Mariah, the older two, said: That's nice Dad ... but it's not true. You did it on your own. We respect you for saying that, but it's not true, but it's nice. The little one, Michaela, says: Well, hold on a second. First, I did a lot more events with Dad because the other two were at school. And I did all those introductions. And I really think that I went a long way to soften his image. I'm not that soft. So to the co-governor, thank you.
And thank all of you. Thank all of you from the bottom of my heart for being here, for helping me be here. For all the work people, the people that worked in the attorney general's office, I believe the best talent and staff ever assembled in the attorney general's office. You did magnificent work for the public.
Thank you all. This is an austere setting. And it should be, in my opinion. No grand celebrations. There is a lot of disappointment vis-a-vis the government. A lot of suffering from the economy. And I don't think a grand ceremony or a lavish ceremony would be appropriate.
In my administration, this is going to be the way it works. When we actually do something and perform and help the people of the State of New York and we make government function, then we are going to have a big party and celebrate, and not before.
I also -- During this campaign, Bob and I had the opportunity to visit all 62 counties once again. And doing it in a relatively compressed period of time, it's just a beautiful reminder of the assets that we have in this state. From the falls of Niagara to the powerful waves of Montauk, we have it all and everything in between. We really have every asset that man or God could be expected to give to a place.
That is the State of New York, and I saw that up close and personal. I also saw up close and personal the suffering that our people are facing and the devastating toll that this economy has taken. And it cannot be underestimated.
Young people all across upstate New York who are leaving because they believe there is no economic future left. The taxpayers on Long Island who are imprisoned in their homes because they can't afford to pay the property taxes anymore, but the value of the home has dropped so low that they can't afford to sell the house because they can't pay off the mortgage. The laid-off construction worker in Brooklyn who can't find a job and is fretting about what he's going to do to feed his family when the unemployment insurance runs out.
This, my friends, cannot be underestimated. And to make it actually worse, people then feel betrayed by their government. That they have problems, they have needs, they look to the government and they assume the government was going to be there to help them because that's what government is supposed to be all about. And they look to the government and instead they find a government that's part of the problem rather than part of the solution.
People all across the state, when you mention state government they are literally shaking their heads. Worse than no confidence, what they're saying is, is no trust. The words ''government in Albany'' have become a national punch line. And the joke is on us. Too often government responds to the whispers of the lobbyists before the cries of the people. Our people feel abandoned by government, betrayed and isolated, and they are right.
New York faces a deficit. A deficit that we talk about all day long, the budget deficit, the budget deficit. But it's actually worse. The state faces a budget deficit and a competence deficit and an integrity deficit and a trust deficit. And those are the obstacles we really face.
And the state is at a crossroads. I believe the decisions that we make, the decisions my colleagues make, this year will define the trajectory of this state for years to come. The decisions we make today will shape the state we leave our children tomorrow.
As governor, I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do, because I told you what I'm going to do. I told the people all across this state. This was a different kind of campaign. Bob and I put together a very specific agenda. And we said we wanted to win not with the personal mandate -- This was not about electing Andrew Cuomo and Bob Duffy; this was electing a mandate for change that the people of this state endorsed overwhelmingly all across this state.
We have a very specific mandate for change that the people want. And our expectation is that the politicians and the elected officials of people are now going to do what the people voted for and what the people need.
It starts with jobs, jobs, jobs, getting the economy running once again. Getting the economy running all across this great state.
Number 2 is going to be cleaning up Albany and restoring trust because Bob is right, you have nothing without trust. Any relationship is only as good as the level of trust, and we have lost the trust. And we are not going to get it back until we clean up Albany and there's real transparency and real disclosure and real accountability and real ethics enforcement. That's what the people have voted for and that's what the people deserve.
We have to pass a property-tax cap in the State of New York because working families can't afford to pay the ever-increasing tax burden. Nothing is going up in their lives. Their income isn't going up, their banking account isn't going up, their savings aren't going up. They can't afford the never-ending tax increases in the State of New York and this state has no future if it is going to be the tax capital of the nation. We have to send that signal this session by passing a property-tax cap.
And my friends, we must rightsize the state government for today. The state government has grown too large, we can't afford it, the number of local governments has grown too large, and that we're going to have to reduce and consolidate.
We know what needs to be done. We have known, in truth, what needs to be done for many, many years. What we have to do this time is we actually have to do it, we actually have to deliver for the people of the State of New York.
In a few days in the State of the State, I will be providing and presenting an emergency financial reinvention plan, which will lay out all the specifics, a blueprint for change, a blueprint for action.
Now, don't get me wrong, I am not underestimating the severity or difficulty of the task that we are about to undertake. My gray hairs are multiplying just thinking about what we have to do.
We will be taking on powerful interests and long-entrenched patterns of behavior. And change is very, very hard. Change is hard individually, in our own lives. Change is especially hard in a collective and to get this government to change, to get this body to change, after all the years and after all the attempts and after people are so set in their ways, it's going to be difficult.
But I believe we can do it.
First, we have to start with a new attitude that reflects a new reality. We need to correct decades of declines and billions of dollars in overspending. The special interests who have ruled our government for years must give way to the people's agenda.
There is no more time to waste. It is a time for deeds, not words, and results, not rhetoric. It is time for a bold agenda and immediate action. There is no more waiting for tomorrow and there are no more baby steps, my friends. My attitude will be constructive impatience with the status quo of Albany. We need change and we need it now.
Second, we need a new partnership. To the state legislators, I say I reach out to you to form a new partnership, because in truth the partnership between the executive and the Legislature has not been working well for years and that must change.
I respect the electoral responsibility of the Legislature, I respect the constitutional independence of the Legislature, but I also know that success will require a different approach. We must accomplish more, faster, smarter and better, than we have in decades. We have no more time to dally.
Rather than seeking the apparent safety of the lowest common denominator, we must strive to reach the highest possible goal. We must realize that achieving political consensus in a political conference is different than providing governmental leadership for the people of the State of New York.
To my Republican colleagues, I say I will not govern in a partisan way and my administration will not be a partisan administration. I was not a partisan attorney general; I did not run a partisan campaign. I don't believe the Democrats or the Republicans alone created the problems we face today, and I don't believe the Democrats or Republicans alone will be able to solve the problems we face today.
I believe we are going to have to do it and do it together.
President Lincoln said in this city on his way to his inauguration, ''Citizens may swear allegiance to one party or the other and believe with all their might that they are right, but once an election is passed, and until the next election, they should be one people.''
President Lincoln's words are profound. We are not first Democrats, Republicans or Independents. We are first New Yorkers, and we must act that way.
Today, I extend my hand in partnership across the aisle to my Republican colleagues so we may take the first step immediately.
And third and most importantly in my opinion, we need the people of the State of New York to be part of this effort.
A governor's inherent power is limited. A governor's potential power is limitless.
The potential power of the governor is to mobilize the people of the State of New York. And that is the real power of being governor. Only the people's voice can silence the calls of the special interests in the halls of the Capitol.
I will lift the veil of secrecy that now surrounds Albany and I will communicate in every way I can, ways never used before, but I need the people to join in.
I said in my campaign this effort is not going to be about ''me'' but ''we.'' We the people formed the government, we the people must reform the government, and that's going to have to start today.
And this is going to be a dramatic shift for Albany.
I was walking in the hallways of this Capitol a few months ago and I was a few steps behind a mother and apparently her daughter, and they were walking through the hallways and the daughter was obviously taken by the majesty of the building. And the daughter turned to her mother and said, ''Mom, where are all the people?'' And the mother said, ''The people are working, they are in the offices, they are in the offices.'' Because the halls were fairly empty. And the girl said: ''But doesn't anyone come to visit? It is so beautiful and it is so important.''
It is so beautiful and it is so important. And I thought to myself, out of the mouths of babes.
Where are the people? Where are the people in Albany? Where are the people in the Capitol? That is the profound absence in this system. The people aren't engaged. And that is what is going to have to change. If there is a silver bullet in the battle to recapture Albany, it is the re-engagement of our citizens.
This Capitol has become a physical metaphor for the isolation and alienation of our people. In the name of heightened security, they have erected barriers and barricades all around this Capitol. To get into this Capitol is now like running an obstacle course, and it shouldn't be. People refer to the Capitol as a fort or as a bunker; it is anything but.
This is a beautiful monument to democracy, this building. This is the people's meeting place and they should be invited in.
And today, my friends, we will reopen the Capitol, literally and figuratively. We will remove the barriers on State Street so the tour buses can return once again. We will be opening up the second floor, the governor's floor, so the members of the public will once again have access to their government.
It is a symbol of a new approach: to reconnect with people, to build back trust, to defeat the power of the special interests with the power of the people.
My friends, look at this Capitol that you are in today. I am sure you noticed on the way in, notice on the way out, look at the magnificent building that they built. Look at this room, the Governor's Reception Room, the War Room. Twenty-five hand-painted murals by William de Leftwich Dodge. Look at the granite, marble, carved mahogany, the carved oak in this building. The million-dollar staircase, the most expensive building to build at the time, $25 million. It took them 30 years.
Look at the statement that they were making. Look at the commitment, look at the resources. They could have built a building in one-tenth of the time, with one-tenth of the expense and one-tenth of the effort. That's not what they wanted. They wanted to make a statement when they built this institution of government. They wanted to say: we believe in government; we respect government; we are committed to government; we want the government to succeed.
Why? Because they believed when the government succeeds, they succeed. Because the government is them. It is not an alien force; it is the organizing force for people. And if the government is successful at organizing and mobilizing, then society is going to be successful.
So they invested in the government and it was theirs and they were proud of it. That is what this building is all about. That is what the Court of Appeals is all about. People believing in the institutions of New York State and believing in themselves and believing in the State and investing in that belief.
When I first came to this building I was in my 20s, very early 20s, and at that time I had the good fortune to watch some truly extraordinary public service: My father, Gov. Mario Cuomo, who was lieutenant governor at that time; Gov. Hugh L. Carey; Mr. Fink, Mr. Stanley Fink; Mr. Warren Anderson. Different people, from different parts of the state, with different cultures and different accents, but they were beautiful to watch. They were people of honor, people of talent. It was always about principle, it was always about serving the people and they always got the job done. And they made this government work in a way that made this state a better state, and I was inspired just watching them.
And I remember sitting there, watching them, saying, you know what, maybe one day I can do this. Maybe one day I can be in public service. Maybe one day I could help my community, I could help my state. Maybe one day, I could be in this place of honor. That's what this Capitol represents to me.
That's what this Capitol represents to me and so many others. That, my friends, is what I want to recapture.
I want to rebuild this government. Rebuild it by bringing back competence; rebuild it by bring back integrity; rebuild it by bringing back performance; by bringing back people of talent; by bringing back people of good will; rebuild it by bringing back professionalism and respect and decorum and protocol and collegiality and partnership with the Legislature and product for the people of this state. Rebuild the government to be what this government was and what this government needs to be once again.
That's what this administration is going to be all about -- restoring the pride, making the government work, my friends. So people once again trust the government and trust the institution. So that people once again believe in government, in themselves and in this state.
And that's what this is all going to be about. Rebuild the government, restore confidence, restore trust, get the people of this state believing once again. Believe in government, believe in themselves, believe in each other, believe in our future. Believe in our potential, believe that we can fulfill this dream of New York and we're going to make this state the Empire State, greater than it's ever been before. At the end of the day, what this is all about is making this state a better state for the 19 million people who live here.
I have my three best, beautiful reasons with me today, my three children. And as a parent, as a citizen, the fundamental obligation is to leave them a home that is better, sweeter, fairer, stronger than the home that we had. And their home is the State of New York and their home is going to stay the State of New York.
Let's go forward, let's go forward together, as New Yorkers, as people of good will. And let's not just rebuild this New York, let's make this New York bigger and stronger and better and sweeter than it has ever been before.
That is our challenge, that is our destiny, that is our legacy, and that is what we launch today.
Thank you for being with us. God bless you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); JUDGES (76%); FAMILY (76%); LAWYERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); DAVID PATERSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011



67 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: For Many Returning Veterans, Home Is Where the Trouble Is

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
UTICA, N.Y.
Across the country a tide is reversing. Soldiers deployed to two long wars are coming back, bringing some of the anguish home with them. Those who leave the service are trying to restart civilian lives, rejoining their families, going to college, trying to find jobs. It doesn't always work out.
The challenges for returning veterans are particularly visible in upstate New York, around Fort Drum, home to the Army's 10th Mountain Division, and some of the most frequently deployed combat units anywhere. Since 9/11, tens of thousands of Drum soldiers have seen two or three, sometimes even four tours of duty. Most who return disperse around the country, but a significant percentage stay nearby. Veterans are 13 percent of the population in the Fort Drum area, compared with 9 percent in the rest of the state. 
In that band of fading cities and rural communities, the governmental safety net is stretched thin. With more veterans needing help, a growing network of nonprofit organizations is rising to meet the demand.
Business is booming in the veterans outreach center in downtown Utica. The center, once a YMCA, was bright and bustling on a recent gray, snow-dusted day. Staff members proudly showed the strands of a new safety net being woven into place: dormitory rooms upstairs that will soon be converted to transitional housing, a basement full of donated clothing, housewares and furniture. Classrooms. A boxing ring and exercise room. An Internet cafe.
On Dec. 10, the center celebrated the ribbon-cutting for a new program in which veterans meet other veterans for outings, conversation, friendship. The simple idea behind it: if you haven't been there, you don't know.
The peer program's coordinator is Michael Sportello, who served in Iraq. He returned to the worst recession in decades, an ocean of debt and an unhappy home. His wife left. He kept his sons. He almost gave up, but then found the center and a focus for his life.
He is working with people like William Lavier, an Army master sergeant who is striving to reinvent himself for life after warfare. Sergeant Lavier is unemployed and has a college degree and no interest in working for the minimum wage. Because the available jobs upstate are mainly in health care and education, he is studying to be a registered nurse, hoping his finances hold out long enough.
He and his wife, who works for a medical-billing company, are many tens of thousands of dollars in debt. They are one layoff away from a disaster. He is also considering leaving his family for a job in Virginia. Or signing up for another deployment -- war may be hell, but it's also a paycheck.
The world of troubled veterans is still dominated by the Vietnam era, by men in their 60s. But the veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan, young men and women in their prime, survivors of bomb blasts and bearers of brutal memories, are catching up. When they get in trouble, they are said to do so quicker and more deeply.
Mr. Sportello and Sergeant Lavier are luckier than many. They aren't homeless or in prison. But both men speak emphatically of how difficult the re-entry to life is after combat. Over there, on patrol, Mr. Sportello said, the adrenaline is so thick the pounding in your neck makes it hard to breathe. Back home, Sergeant Lavier usually can't sleep. Once, he dozed off to a war movie blasting in his home, the speakers shaking the house and waking everyone else up. The sounds of combat were a lullaby for his jangled nerves.
The pace of civilian life confounds many veterans. They see it as a world of slow-moving civilians who frustrate and terrify them. If a driver resents your tailgating and slows down, and another pulls up beside you -- suddenly you're boxed in, back in Baghdad. People on overpasses look like snipers. Trash on road shoulders like I.E.D.'s.
Veterans and their advocates in Utica and elsewhere had good words for the Veterans Affairs Department, which they said has begun realizing that one of the best ways to help veterans, especially the many who live far from V.A. hospitals, is through community-based services. The agency is steering money to local nonprofits and beginning its own efforts, like a pilot program in nearby Watertown and towns near other military bases around the country, to seek out veterans at risk of homelessness. This is a sharp change of attitude.
Someday the country will recognize that the population of veterans is growing, and that yellow-ribbon magnets aren't enough to help them. Unfortunately, Congress hasn't figured it out. Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki has a welcome campaign to end the problem of veterans' homelessness in five years. But a bill to give the V.A. $50 million more to address homelessness went nowhere in the lame-duck session. The next Congress must do better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); FAMILY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



68 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Deep Hole Economics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
If there's one piece of economic wisdom I hope people will grasp this year, it's this: Even though we may finally have stopped digging, we're still near the bottom of a very deep hole.
Why do I need to point this out? Because I've noticed many people overreacting to recent good economic news. What particularly concerns me is the risk of self-denying optimism -- that is, I worry that policy makers will look at a few favorable economic indicators, decide that they no longer need to promote recovery, and take steps that send us sliding right back to the bottom. 
So, about that good news: various economic indicators, ranging from relatively good holiday sales to new claims for unemployment insurance (which have finally fallen below 400,000 a week), suggest that the great post-bubble retrenchment may finally be ending.
We're not talking Morning in America here. Construction shows no sign of returning to bubble-era levels, nor are there any indications that debt-burdened families are going back to their old habits of spending all they earned. But all we needed for a modest economic rebound was for construction to stop falling and saving to stop rising -- and that seems to be happening. Forecasters have been marking up their predictions; growth as high as 4 percent this year now looks possible.
Hooray! But then again, not so much. Jobs, not G.D.P. numbers, are what matter to American families. And when you start from an unemployment rate of almost 10 percent, the arithmetic of job creation -- the amount of growth you need to get back to a tolerable jobs picture -- is daunting.
First of all, we have to grow around 2.5 percent a year just to keep up with rising productivity and population, and hence keep unemployment from rising. That's why the past year and a half was technically a recovery but felt like a recession: G.D.P. was growing, but not fast enough to bring unemployment down.
Growth at a rate above 2.5 percent will bring unemployment down over time. But the gains aren't one for one: for a variety of reasons, it has historically taken about two extra points of growth over the course of a year to shave one point off the unemployment rate.
Now do the math. Suppose that the U.S. economy were to grow at 4 percent a year, starting now and continuing for the next several years. Most people would regard this as excellent performance, even as an economic boom; it's certainly higher than almost all the forecasts I've seen.
Yet the math says that even with that kind of growth the unemployment rate would be close to 9 percent at the end of this year, and still above 8 percent at the end of 2012. We wouldn't get to anything resembling full employment until late in Sarah Palin's first presidential term.
Seriously, what we're looking at over the next few years, even with pretty good growth, are unemployment rates that not long ago would have been considered catastrophic -- because they are. Behind those dry statistics lies a vast landscape of suffering and broken dreams. And the arithmetic says that the suffering will continue as far as the eye can see.
So what can be done to accelerate this all-too-slow process of healing? A rational political system would long since have created a 21st-century version of the Works Progress Administration -- we'd be putting the unemployed to work doing what needs to be done, repairing and improving our fraying infrastructure. In the political system we have, however, Senator-elect Kelly Ayotte, delivering the Republican weekly address on New Year's Day, declared that ''Job one is to stop wasteful Washington spending.''
Realistically, the best we can hope for from fiscal policy is that Washington doesn't actively undermine the recovery. Beware, in particular, the Ides of March: by then, the federal government will probably have hit its debt limit and the G.O.P. will try to force President Obama into economically harmful spending cuts.
I'm also worried about monetary policy. Two months ago, the Federal Reserve announced a new plan to promote job growth by buying long-term bonds; at the time, many observers believed that the initial $600 billion purchase was only the beginning of the story. But now it looks like the end, partly because Republicans are trying to bully the Fed into pulling back, but also because a run of slightly better economic news provides an excuse to do nothing.
There's even a significant chance that the Fed will raise interest rates later this year -- or at least that's what the futures market seems to think. Doing so in the face of high unemployment and minimal inflation would be crazy, but that doesn't mean it won't happen.
So back to my original point: whatever the recent economic news, we're still near the bottom of a very deep hole. We can only hope that enough policy makers understand that point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



69 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Rivals To the iPad Say This Is the Year

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Welcome to the year of the tablet. Again.
Last year was supposed to be the year manufacturers would wow consumers with offerings of all sorts of tablet computers. Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, took the stage in January at the International Consumer Electronics Show, the industry's premier trade show, and displayed three devices that he said would be on sale in the months ahead. Dozens of smaller companies laid out their own tablet plans at the show.
But few of these promises came to fruition; none of Microsoft's tablets ever showed up in stores.
Instead, in April, Apple's iPad came out. And the year became the Year of the iPad. 
This year, manufacturers are promising it will be different, saying that after the success of the iPad, they have learned a lot about what consumers want in a tablet.
''We could have done this a year ago and rushed it out, but it wouldn't have had the right features,'' said Phil Osako, director of product marketing at Toshiba, which is introducing a new tablet at this year's show, which begins Thursday in Las Vegas.
Perhaps the most important feature is the ability to watch high-quality video, say industry analysts, pointing to market research showing that, above all, consumers want to use tablets for all kinds of media consumption -- watching films, looking at and sharing photographs, playing games.
''Apple competitors' first instinct was to build a cheaper device and put a cheaper processor in it,'' said Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst with Forrester Research, a market research firm. ''The problem with that is that it wouldn't have been as good for the video screens.''
At this year's show, Research In Motion and Hewlett-Packard are expected to show off tablet computers, while scheduled appearances by executives at Motorola and Microsoft are widely thought to be coming-out parties for their company's devices.
Mr. Ballmer is to give the keynote address in Las Vegas on Wednesday, the eve of the show; some analysts and bloggers have described this as a do-over of last year.
And on the show floor this year, manufacturers whose primary expertise rests in cellular phones, personal computers and even televisions are planning to display their first forays into the tablet market.
At the same time, industry analysts say demand for these devices is poised to spike. More than 24 million tablet computers are projected to be sold in the United States this year, up from 10.3 million in 2010, according to Forrester. IDC, another research firm, expects to see 42 million tablet sales worldwide in 2011.
As of October, Apple had sold 7.46 million iPads worldwide, according to the company's last reported figures. It had virtually no competitors all year, until the Samsung Galaxy Tab became available in November. Samsung says it has sold 1.5 million Galaxy Tabs since then.
How do the competitors catch up?
Many companies are withholding the specifics of their tablets until they are formally introduced. But those who have discussed their plans say they will both offer specific features that the iPad is lacking, and undercut their competitors on price.
Mr. Osako from Toshiba said Apple's experience over the last year has helped his company by creating demand for tablets while Toshiba fine-tuned its plans. Toshiba's tablet, which will run on Google's Android operating system, resembles an iPad with a grippy rubberized backing. The company has incorporated features it has developed for its laptops, like stereo speakers and a screen that adjusts in contrast depending on the lighting. Both of those features will make it more comfortable for consumers to watch video.
Mr. Osako also listed features unavailable on the iPad, like front- and back-facing cameras, ports for H.D.M.I. hookups and SIM cards, and the ability to run Adobe Flash.
''We really view this as the next revolution,'' he said.
Other companies are looking to distinguish themselves by price. Enspert, a Korean manufacturer that is already selling tablets in Korea, is planning to introduce an Android tablet with a seven-inch screen for under $350 at the show, and sell it in the United States this year. By the end of the summer, the tablet, the Identity Tab, will also be available with a data plan through a major wireless carrier for about $100, Bobby Cha, the company's chief marketing officer, said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Cha said technology consumers pay a heavy premium for familiar brand names, creating opportunity for little-known companies with similar products.
''The market is open to everybody, so we know where everybody stands,'' he said. ''Apple changed the market dynamics, but we're going to occupy a price point that is much more appealing to the American mass-market customer.''
Creating similar products for much lower prices may be difficult because the iPad has conditioned customers to expect a device that is both relatively light and powerful enough to display high-quality media, said Mark Donovan, an analyst with comScore, a market research organization. But he also said that success would be determined largely based on the software that the devices run, and not only on the number of features that manufacturers can pack into the hardware.
The tablet market is shaping up to resemble the smartphone market, in which a few companies, like Apple, Research In Motion and Microsoft, design their own operating systems, while many others design hardware that runs on Google's Android operating system.
Perhaps the companies best positioned to succeed are those that make cellphones, several analysts who follow the market said. Handset makers already have relationships with wireless carriers, which can hide the full price of devices by subsidizing them when consumers also purchase data plans.
Many manufacturers are focusing solely on creating hardware that will run on Google's Android operating system. In part, companies were delayed last year because they were waiting for updated versions of Android that would be designed specifically for tablet computers. That wait seems to be over.
Devices can already run Android 2.3, known as Gingerbread, and Android 3.0, known as Honeycomb, is scheduled to be available this year. Andy Rubin, vice president for engineering at Google, showed a prototype of a Motorola tablet running the operating system at a conference in December.
Apple's experience with the iPad has also shown that consumers place a high value on the number and quality of apps. And so no matter how good tablets look in Las Vegas at the electronics show, the competition will continue as developers begin to write apps for the various devices.
''You can build these devices, which is great, but it's no longer enough to say, 'O.K., you have the Internet,' '' said Mr. Donovan of comScore. ''You need developers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (B1)
Shoppers tried out iPads in a Sao Paulo store last month. Other tablet makers have taken pointers from the iPad's experience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULO FRIDMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Steven Ballmer, chief of Microsoft, showed off the company's slate PC during his keynote speech at the consumer electronics show in Las Vegas last year. He may do much the same at the industry show this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TABLET COMPUTERS (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SMARTPHONES (75%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); TOSHIBA CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); TOS (LSE) (55%); 6502 (TSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); RIM (TSX) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



70 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: After Ravages of Time and War, Triage to Save Ruins of Babylon

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
JIMIJMA, Iraq -- The damage done to the ruins of ancient Babylon is visible from a small hilltop near the Tower of Babel, whose biblical importance is hard to envision from what is left of it today.
Across the horizon are guard towers, concertina wire and dirt-filled barriers among the palm trees; encroaching farms and concrete houses from this village and others; and the enormous palace that Saddam Hussein built in the 1980s atop the city where Nebuchadnezzar II ruled.
Something else is visible, too: earthen mounds concealing all that has yet to be discovered in a city that the prophet Jeremiah called ''a gold cup in the Lord's hands, a cup that made the whole earth drunk.''
On the hillside during one of his many visits to the ruins, Jeff Allen, a conservationist working with the World Monuments Fund, said: ''All this is unexcavated. There is great potential at this site. You could excavate the street plan of the entire city.'' 
That is certainly years away given the realities of today's Iraq. But for the first time since the American invasion in 2003, after years of neglect and violence, archaeologists and preservationists have once again begun working to protect and even restore parts of Babylon and other ancient ruins of Mesopotamia. And there are new sites being excavated for the first time, mostly in secret to avoid attracting the attention of looters, who remain a scourge here.
The World Monuments Fund, working with Iraq's State Board of Antiquities and Heritage, has drafted a conservation plan to combat any further deterioration of Babylon's mud-brick ruins and reverse some of the effects of time and Mr. Hussein's propagandistic and archaeologically specious re-creations.
In November, the State Department announced a new $2 million grant to begin work to preserve the site's most impressive surviving ruins. They include the foundation of the Ishtar Gate, built in the sixth century B.C. by Nebuchadnezzar's father, Nabopolassar, and adorned with brick reliefs of the Babylonian gods Marduk and Adad. (The famous blue-glazed gate that Nebuchadnezzar commissioned was excavated in the early 20th century and rebuilt in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin.)
The objective is to prepare the site and other ruins -- from Ur in the south to Nimrud in the north -- for what officials hope will someday be a flood of scientists, scholars and tourists that could contribute to Iraq's economic revival almost as much as oil.
The Babylon project is Iraq's biggest and most ambitious by far, a reflection of the ancient city's fame and its resonance in Iraq's modern political and cultural heritage.
''This is one of the great projects we have, and it is the first,'' Qais Hussein Rashid, the director of the State Board of Antiquities and Heritage, said in an interview in Baghdad. ''We want to have it as a model for all the other sites.''
The task at hand is daunting, though, and the threats to the site abundant. In the case of some of the Hussein-era reconstructions, they are irreversible. The American invasion and the carnage that followed brought archaeological and preservation work to a halt across the country, leaving ruins to wither or, in the case of looting, much worse.
The American military turned Babylon into a base. It was later occupied by Polish troops and, though it was returned to the control of the State Board of Antiquities and Heritage in 2004, the detritus of a military presence still scars the site.
The World Monuments Fund has been carrying out what amounts to archaeological triage since it began its conservation plan in 2009. It has created computer scans to provide precise records of the damage to the ruins and identified the most pernicious threats, starting with erosion caused by salty groundwater. ''What we've got to do is create a stable environment,'' Mr. Allen said at the site in November. ''Right now it's on the fast road to falling apart.''
The wicking of groundwater into mud bricks, compounded by a modern concrete walkway and the excavations conducted by the German archaeologist Robert Koldewey more than a century ago, have already eaten away some of the 2,500-year-old brick reliefs at the Ishtar Gate's base.
''They took care of Ishtar Gate only from the inside, because you had visiting leaders and dignitaries who would come,'' said Mahmoud Bendakir, an architect who is working with the fund, referring to the site's caretakers during the Hussein era. ''The outside is a disaster.''
The grant from the United States will pay for repairs to channel the water away from the gate's foundation, which stands several yards beneath the surrounding area. Similar repairs are planned for two of Babylon's temples, Ninmakh and Nabu-sha-Khare, the most complete sets of ruins, though they too suffer from erosion and harmful restorations with modern bricks.
''It's difficult to say which is doing more,'' Mr. Allen said, ''but the two together are nearly toxic for the preservation of monuments.''
The American reconstruction team has refurbished a modern museum on the site, as well as a model of the Ishtar Gate that for decades served as a visitors' entrance. Inside the museum is one of the site's most valuable relics: a glazed brick relief of a lion, one of 120 that once lined the processional way into the city.
The museum, with three galleries, is scheduled to open this month, receiving its first visitors since 2003. And with new security installed, talks are under way to return ancient Babylonian artifacts from the National Museum in Baghdad.
The fate of Babylon is already being disputed by Iraqi leaders, with antiquities officials clashing with local authorities over when to open it to visitors and how to exploit the site for tourism that, for the most part, remains a goal more than a reality. Even now they are clashing over whether the admission fee should go to the antiquities board or the provincial government.
Another of the more dire threats to the site has been unchecked development inside the boundaries of the old city walls, enclosing nearly three square miles. The fund's project has plotted the old walls on a map, causing trepidation among Iraqis who live along them now.
They fear the preservation of Babylon's ruins will force them from their homes and farmlands, as when Mr. Hussein expelled residents of a local village to build his palace. ''They took them from their lands,'' said Minshed al-Mamuri, who runs a civic organization for widows and orphans here. ''It's psychological for them.''
Mr. Allen, who oversees the fund's work, said the preservation of Babylon would require collaboration among competing constituencies that is extremely rare amid Iraq's political instability.
''We're looking at not just archaeology,'' he said of the project. ''We're looking at the economic opportunities and viability for local people. They need to see something out of this site. That's possible, and possible at the same time to preserve the integrity of the site.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Iraqi helicopter hovering over the Ishtar Gate in May. Groundwater and excavations have eaten away brick reliefs at its base.
 A bas-relief of the Babylonian god Marduk adorns a wall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAP: Ruins at Ur and Nimrud are also getting more attention. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); RELIGION (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) IRAQ (95%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



71 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: How to Stay Friends With China

BYLINE: By ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI. 
Zbigniew Brzezinski was the national security adviser in the Carter administration.

 BODY:
Washington
THE visit by President Hu Jintao of China to Washington this month will be the most important top-level United States-Chinese encounter since Deng Xiaoping's historic trip more than 30 years ago. It should therefore yield more than the usual boilerplate professions of mutual esteem. It should aim for a definition of the relationship between the two countries that does justice to the global promise of constructive cooperation between them.
I remember Deng's visit well, as I was national security adviser at the time. It took place in an era of Soviet expansionism, and crystallized United States-Chinese efforts to oppose it. It also marked the beginning of China's three-decades-long economic transformation -- one facilitated by its new diplomatic ties to the United States. 
President Hu's visit takes place in a different climate. There are growing uncertainties regarding the state of the bilateral relationship, as well as concerns in Asia over China's longer-range geopolitical aspirations. These uncertainties are casting a shadow over the upcoming meeting.
In recent months there has been a steady increase in polemics in the United States and China, with each side accusing the other of pursuing economic policies that run contrary to accepted international rules. Each has described the other as selfish. Longstanding differences between the American and the Chinese notions of human rights were accentuated by the awarding of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize to a Chinese dissident.
Moreover, each side has unintentionally intensified the suspicions of the other. Washington's decisions to help India with nuclear energy have stimulated China's unease, prompting increased Chinese support for Pakistan's desire to expand its own nuclear energy potential. China's seeming lack of concern over North Korea's violent skirmishes with South Korea has given rise to apprehension about China's policy on the Korean peninsula. And just as America's unilateralism has in recent years needlessly antagonized some of its friends, so China should note that some of its recent stands have worried its neighbors.
The worst outcome for Asia's long-term stability as well as for the American-Chinese relationship would be a drift into escalating reciprocal demonization. What's more, the temptations to follow such a course are likely to grow as both countries face difficulties at home.
The pressures are real. The United States' need for comprehensive domestic renewal, for instance, is in many respects the price of having shouldered the burdens of waging the 40-year cold war, and it is in part the price of having neglected for the last 20 years mounting evidence of its own domestic obsolescence. Our weakening infrastructure is merely a symptom of the country's slide backward into the 20th century.
China, meanwhile, is struggling to manage an overheated economy within an inflexible political system. Some pronouncements by Chinese commentators smack of premature triumphalism regarding both China's domestic transformation and its global role. (Those Chinese leaders who still take Marxist classics seriously might do well to re-read Stalin's message of 1930 to the party cadres titled ''Dizzy With Success,'' which warned against ''a spirit of vanity and conceit.'')
Thirty years after their collaborative relationship started, the United States and China should not flinch from a forthright discussion of their differences -- but they should undertake it with the knowledge that each needs the other. A failure to consolidate and widen their cooperation would damage not just both nations but the world as a whole. Neither side should delude itself that it can avoid the harm caused by an increased mutual antagonism; both should understand that a crisis in one country can hurt the other.
For the visit to be more than symbolic, Presidents Obama and Hu should make a serious effort to codify in a joint declaration the historic potential of productive American-Chinese cooperation. They should outline the principles that should guide it. They should declare their commitment to the concept that the American-Chinese partnership should have a wider mission than national self-interest. That partnership should be guided by the moral imperatives of the 21st century's unprecedented global interdependence.
The declaration should set in motion a process for defining common political, economic and social goals. It should acknowledge frankly the reality of some disagreements as well as register a shared determination to seek ways of narrowing the ranges of such disagreements. It should also take note of potential threats to security in areas of mutual concern, and commit both sides to enhanced consultations and collaboration in coping with them.
Such a joint charter should, in effect, provide the framework not only for avoiding what under some circumstances could become a hostile rivalry but also for expanding a realistic collaboration between the United States and China. This would do justice to a vital relationship between two great nations of strikingly different histories, identities and cultures -- yet both endowed with a historically important global role.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLITICS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



72 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: By Car, Train or Buggy, More Trips to the A.T.M.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Subways? $104 a month. Bridge tolls? Going up. Gas? Don't even ask. It can be enough to make a New Yorker yearn for a horse-and-buggy.
But even that one is going to cost more.
Transportation, by wheel, foot or hoof, has become one of the fastest-growing costs of city life, and in 2010, no mode in New York City seemed immune. 
Last week, MetroCard prices rose for the third year in a row, a victim of a financing gap at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority that also caused bridge and tunnel tolls, and fares on the region's commuter railroads, to rise.
But for anyone trying to trek around the city, pricier buses and subways were just the start.
The cost of a Central Park horse carriage ride, that quaint relic of Victorian times, more than doubled last year. The City Council, which regulates the industry, approved a bill in April that raised the price to $50 for 20 minutes of wallet-crushing nostalgia.
There have been reports of rogue pedicabs charging tourists $90 for rides around Central Park, despite attempts by the city to regulate pedal-powered rickshaws. ''It's a lot worse for the customers now,'' said one veteran of the industry.
Even the ferry to the Ikea store in Red Hook, Brooklyn, once free, now charges $5, although you get it back if you make a $10 purchase.
''We have no say in this, but we have to get around New York,'' Jason Ginsberg, 40, of Manhattan said Sunday outside the Columbus Circle subway station. ''We have no alternative, other than walking.''
According to the Labor Department, transportation costs in the New York region rose 3.7 percent in the 12 months that ended in November, far outpacing the overall rate of inflation. Transportation costs have also risen more quickly than other goods and services.
The price of gasoline is one culprit: On Sunday, the average cost in the New York City area was said to be $3.37 a gallon, up 17 percent from $2.88 a year ago.
Need a new license plate? Pony up $25 at your local Motor Vehicles office, a fee that was at $15 as recently as April.
Even if you can afford to fill up, be prepared to pay up to 33 percent more to use tunnels and bridges operated by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
And should you decide to enter Manhattan by car, get ready to pay $3 an hour to park below 86th Street, up 20 percent from last year. The stiffer meter rates, courtesy of the Bloomberg administration, start Monday, and the other boroughs will not be spared: parking outside Manhattan will cost $1 an hour, up 33 1/3 percent.
Fed up? Ready to flee the city for cheaper pastures? That will cost more, too.
The average fare on domestic flights leaving Newark Liberty International Airport rose 20 percent between the summers of 2009 and 2010, according to the most recent data from the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics. On average, tickets for flights leaving New York area airfields rose 14 percent in the same period, and in 2011, ''fares are not going to come down,'' said Joe Brancatelli, a business travel commentator based in New York.
Even getting out to the airport could cost more. A proposal submitted to the Taxi and Limousine Commission would raise the fare to Kennedy Airport in yellow cabs to $53 from $45 -- not including tip, tolls, and the 50-cent surcharge that goes to mass transit.
In fact, the cost of every yellow cab ride may be about to go up. An influential group of fleet owners has petitioned the city to raise taxi fares by nearly 20 percent in 2011. The initial charge for a cab ride would be $3, instead of the current $2.50, and cabs would charge $2.40 per mile, up from $2. The Taxi and Limousine Commission says there is no timetable for an increase, for now.
If the streets seem too expensive, try a ferry. Fares stayed the same last year on New York Waterway and New York Water Taxi, the commuter ferry companies. But a Circle Line cruise from Midtown cost a dollar more in 2010, and another dollar increase is in store this year.
At New York Helicopter Charter, the owner, Michael Roth, raised his prices by $10 to $15 a ride, blaming the rising cost of fuel. (His competitors, who already charge more, kept their prices flat.)
But Mr. Roth said he kept rates steady for one service: helicopter rides to the Hamptons, for which he charges $2,800 to $3,500, depending on distance.
''Even the well-to-do have given up this type of transportation because they are feeling the pinch,'' Mr. Roth said. ''You could raise the prices, no problem, but nobody will call you.'' Indeed: Hampton Jitney buses have not raised prices in two years.
The consequences of the price hikes can be felt in ways large and small. On Central Park South on Sunday, Edan Anderson, 9, was throwing a tantrum. His parents, Eric Shenyo and Nicole Anderson of Pennsylvania, had opted not to take a $50 ride on a horse carriage.
''I really wanted to ride the horses!'' Edan yelled, kicking a curbside tuft of snow.
Mr. Shenyo shook his head. ''By the time you get done with everything, with the gas, with the parking, with the food, it's a couple hundred dollars,'' he explained, referring to his family's visit.
Ms. Anderson said, ''It was just a little too expensive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cost of a Central Park horse carriage ride, regulated by the City Council, was raised to $50 for 20 minutes. MetroCard prices rose last week for the third year in a row. And so on. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Walking Is Still Free: The cost of getting around New York has risen in 2011, but not for everything. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRAINS (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); CITY LIFE (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LEGISLATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



73 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for December and construction spending for November (Monday); factory orders for November (Tuesday); the Institute for Supply Management service index for December and ADP's employment figures for December (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for December and consumer credit for November (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Family Dollar Stores (Wednesday); Constellation Brands and Monsanto (Thursday); and KB Homes (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, automakers will report their sales for December, and the Federal Reserve will release minutes from its Dec. 14 Federal Open Market Committee meeting. On Thursday, retailers will report their same-store sales for December and the International Consumer Electronics Show will begin in Las Vegas, continuing through Sunday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); RETAIL SALES (87%); RETAILERS (87%); SAME STORE SALES (86%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); AUTOMAKERS (53%); TRADE SHOWS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%); KB HOME CORP (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (57%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%); FDO (NYSE) (57%); STZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (57%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



74 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: STATE'S SECRETS: Hidden Hand of Diplomats in Jet Deals

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON, NICOLA CLARK and ANDREW W. LEHREN; Eric Lipton reported from Washington, Nicola Clark from Paris and Andrew W. Lehren from New York.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Eric Lipton, Nicola Clark and Andrew W. Lehren and was written by Mr. Lipton.
WASHINGTON -- The king of Saudi Arabia wanted the United States to outfit his personal jet with the same high-tech devices as Air Force One. The president of Turkey wanted the Obama administration to let a Turkish astronaut sit in on a NASA space flight. And in Bangladesh, the prime minister pressed the State Department to re-establish landing rights at Kennedy International Airport in New York.
Each of these government leaders had one thing in common: they were trying to decide whether to buy billions of dollars' worth of commercial jets from Boeing or its European competitor, Airbus. And United States diplomats were acting like marketing agents, offering deals to heads of state and airline executives whose decisions could be influenced by price, performance and, as with all finicky customers with plenty to spend, perks.
This is the high-stakes, international bazaar for large commercial jets, where tens of billions of dollars are on the line, along with hundreds of thousands of high-paying jobs. At its heart, it is a wrestling match fought daily by executives at two giant companies, Boeing and Airbus, in which each controls about half of the global market for such planes. 
To a greater degree than previously known, diplomats are a big part of the sales force, according to hundreds of cables released by WikiLeaks, which describe politicking and cajoling at the highest levels.
It is not surprising that the United States helps American companies doing business abroad, given that each sale is worth thousands of jobs and that their foreign competitors do the same. But like the other WikiLeaks cables, these offer a remarkably detailed look at what had previously been only glimpsed -- in this case, the sales war between American diplomats and their European counterparts.
The cables describe letters from presidents, state visits as bargaining chips and a number of leaders making big purchases based, at least in part, on how much the companies will dress up private planes.
The documents also suggest that demands for bribes, or at least payment to suspicious intermediaries who offer to serve as ''agents,'' still take place. Boeing says it is committed to avoiding any such corrupt practices.
State Department and Boeing officials, in interviews last month, acknowledged the important role the United States government plays in helping them sell commercial airplanes, despite a trade agreement signed by the United States and European leaders three decades ago intended to remove international politics from the process.
The United States economy, said Robert D. Hormats, under secretary for economic affairs at the State Department, increasingly relies upon exports to the fast-growing developing world -- nations like China and India, as well as those in Latin America and the Middle East.
So pushing sales of big-ticket items like commercial jets, earth-moving equipment or power plants (or stepping in to object if an American company is not being given a fair chance to bid) is central to the Obama administration's strategy to help the nation recover from the recession.
Boeing earns about 70 percent of its commercial plane sales from foreign buyers, and is the single biggest exporter of manufactured goods in the United States. Every $1 billion in sales -- and some of these deals carry a price tag of as high as $10 billion -- translates into an estimated 11,000 American jobs, according to the State Department.
The Equalizers
''That is the reality of the 21st century; governments are playing a greater role in supporting their companies, and we need to do the same thing,'' Mr. Hormats, a former top executive at Goldman Sachs, said in an interview.
Said Tim Neale, a Boeing spokesman, ''The way I look at it, it levels the playing field.''
But Charles A. Hamilton, a former Defense Department official who is a consultant to Airbus, said the government's advocacy undermined arguments by Boeing and the United States that Airbus had an unfair advantage because of its subsidies from European governments.
''The bottom line is anything goes to get the business,'' said Mr. Hamilton, adding that he was speaking for himself, and not for Airbus. ''If they feel like they are losing, they will do just about anything to save a deal.''
Airbus executives would not discuss details of their own sales campaigns -- and the WikiLeaks documents are mostly focused on American efforts. But one Airbus official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, conceded that, international agreements aside, ''commercial jet sales are not totally decoupled from political relationship building.''
One example of the horse-trading involved Saudi Arabia, which in November announced a deal with Boeing to buy 12 777-300ER airliners, with options for 10 more, a transaction worth more than $3.3 billion at list prices.
That announcement was preceded by years of intense lobbying by American officials.
One pitch came from the highest levels, the cables show. In late 2006, Israel Hernandez, a senior Commerce Department official, hand-delivered a personal letter from President George W. Bush to the Jeddah office of King Abdullah, urging the king to buy as many as 43 Boeing jets to modernize Saudi Arabian Airlines and 13 jets for the Saudi royal fleet, which serves the extended royal family.
The king read the letter from Mr. Bush, the State Department cable says, and announced that Boeing jets were his favorites. He said he had just turned down two new Airbus jets, opting instead for a slightly used Boeing 747.
But before he would commit to a mostly Boeing fleet, the king had a request.
''I am instructing you,'' he told Mr. Hernandez politely, according to the State Department cable, ''to speak to the president and all concerned authorities,'' as the king ''wanted to have all the technology that his friend, President Bush, had on Air Force One.'' Once he had his own high-tech plane, with the world's most advanced telecommunications and defense equipment -- the king told Mr. Hernandez that '' 'God willing,' he will make a decision that will 'please you very much.' ''
A State Department spokesman confirmed last week that the United States had authorized an ''upgrade'' to King Abdullah's plane, adding ''for security reasons, we won't discuss specifics.''
Bangladesh's prime minister, Sheik Hasina Wazed, was equally direct in making a connection for the landing rights at Kennedy Airport, as a condition of the airplane deal, which was then at risk of collapsing.
''If there is no New York route, what is the point of buying Boeing?'' a November 2009 cable quotes Ms. Hasina as saying as she pressed American officials. The deal with Boeing went through. So far, flights by the country's national carrier, Biman Bangladesh Airlines, to New York have not been restored.
The request from Turkey for a slot on a future NASA flight came early last year, as Turkish Airlines was considering buying as many as 20 Boeing jets.
The government there owns slightly less than half of the airline, but Turkey's minister of transportation, Binali Yildirim, in a January 2010 meeting with the United States ambassador to Turkey, made clear that the country's president wanted help with its fledgling space program and perhaps assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration to improve its aviation safety.
Requests for Favors
''Cooperation in this area will create the right environment for commercial deals,'' Mr. Yildirim told the United States ambassador, the cable says.
In a cable back to Washington, James F. Jeffrey, then the United States ambassador to Turkey, called the effort by Turkish authorities to link the Boeing deal to political requests an ''unwelcome, but unsurprising degree of political influence in this transaction.'' But he went on to say that authorizing the F.A.A. to help Turkey improve its aviation safety and space exploration programs could benefit both nations.
''We probably cannot put a Turkish astronaut in orbit, but there are programs we could undertake to strengthen Turkey's capacity in this area that would meet our own goals for improved aviation safety,'' he wrote. ''In any case, we must show some response to the minister's vague request if we want to maximize chances for the sale.''
The deal was announced a month later, as Turkish Airlines ordered 20 Boeing planes.
Some sales come to Boeing in part because foreign political leaders want to show friendship to the United States.
King Abdullah II of Jordan, a longtime ally and recipient of billions of dollars in United States aid, told the ambassador in 2004 that ''even though the latest Airbus offer was better than Boeing's he intended to make a 'political' decision to have Royal Jordanian buy Boeing aircraft,'' a State Department cable said, although the United States still had to help Boeing secure the deal.
The cables show that the United States is willing to pull out all the political stops if Boeing is in danger of losing a big deal to Airbus. In late 2007, the board of Gulf Air, the national airline of the oil-rich kingdom of Bahrain, picked Airbus for a huge sale.
Boeing told the American government, which responded that there was still a way to turn the deal around, even though Airbus had offered the planes for about $400 million less than Boeing.
'Far From Over'
''The contest remained far from over,'' said the cable. ''Gulf Air's selection still needed to be endorsed by the government.''
The American ambassador at the time, Adam Ereli, and his chief economic officer, went into action, ''lobbying Gulf Air management, board members, government officials and representatives of parliament,'' and appealing directly to the crown prince of Bahrain, in an effort to line up a deal for Boeing that could be final in time for a coming visit by President Bush, the first visit by a sitting United States president.
Within two weeks, the embassy alerted Boeing officials that the crown prince and king of Bahrain had rejected Airbus's offer and directed Gulf Air's chairman to make a deal with Boeing that could be signed while Mr. Bush was in the country.
Seeing that Airbus had been outmaneuvered, France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, made a last-minute bid to save the deal, the State Department cable says. He offered to visit Bahrain after Mr. Bush had left, but that stop-over was canceled when the Boeing agreement was signed in January 2008. None of the last-minute diplomacy was disclosed.
The cables make clear that both Boeing and the government set limits on their efforts, turning away requests in Turkey and Tanzania to hire ''agents'' who charge steep commissions -- or as some called them, bribes -- to gain access to top officials.
Mr. Neale, the company spokesman, says that for Boeing, ''it is not just a matter of abiding by U.S. law and laws internationally but a general sense of business ethics.'' When such requests surfaced, Boeing often reported them to the State Department.
'' 'Agents' and steep 'commissions' have been at the heart of several corruption scandals here,'' says a 2007 State Department cable recounting a demand that Boeing hire a mysterious hotel executive in Tanzania to serve as a ''go-between'' with government officials. Payments like that, the cable said, typically were bribes that ''ended up in Swiss bank accounts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Boeing 747 being built at the company's factory in Everett, Wash. Boeing controls about half of the global market for big jets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
''Governments are playing a greater role in supporting their companies,'' said Robert Hormats, a State Department official. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIERRE VERDY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6) CHART: Global Dogfight: The competition between Boeing and Airbus is also a competition between America and Europe. 2010 figures are through November. (Sources: Boeing
 Airbus) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); SALES FORCE (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (72%); CORRUPTION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (85%); AIRBUS SAS (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (72%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



75 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Worries Follow Route of High-Speed Line

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
MADERA, Calif. -- The area just south of this agricultural city is not much to look at: miles of farmland, a collection of dingy fast food outlets and a gold rush ghost called Borden, where all that remains is a tiny cemetery devoted to long dead Chinese workers.
But sometime soon, this flat-on-flat expanse -- about 150 miles southeast of San Francisco -- may well be home to a first-in-the-nation destination as the initial northern terminus of California's ambitious high-speed rail network. 
Under a plan approved in early December, the inaugural stretch of the multispurred 800-mile system will eventually connect San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego and Sacramento and other major California cities and will run through the state's farm-rich Central Valley.
Federal and state authorities have committed some $5.5 billion to the first leg of the project, which will connect Bakersfield, the valley's southern hub, and the unincorporated area south of Madera. Construction of what will be the first high-speed rail line in the United States is to begin in 2012 and run through 2017, with the promise of creating tens -- even hundreds -- of thousands of jobs in an area that suffers some of the highest unemployment rates in the state.
But despite the potential bounty of jobs, high-speed rail has not been fully embraced. After the rail authority approved the initial route in early December, Representative Dennis Cardoza, a Central Valley Democrat, disparagingly referred to it as ''the train to nowhere.''
''For the California High-Speed Rail Authority to choose this route is to significantly undermine the public's trust, marks a gross misuse of taxpayer funds and will alienate significant supporters of the project,'' he said.
Part of that agita, of course, may be that the first section of high-speed rail will not pass through his district.
But the congressman is not the only person complaining. Several towns have passed resolutions opposing the project because of worries about the disruption of a 220-mile-an-hour train zipping through downtown districts.
And in the Central Valley, where huge, decades-old government irrigation projects have helped turned California into an agricultural powerhouse, farmers have grumbled about the rail project gobbling up valuable farm land.
''We're of the belief that the productive farmland is an environmental and societal benefit, and we ought to be doing whatever we can to keep that land productive,'' said Dave Kranz, a spokesman for the California Farm Bureau. ''And once it's gone, it's gone forever.''
Roelof van Ark, the chief executive of the California High-Speed Rail Authority, which is overseeing the project, said he was trying not to take criticism of the project personally. ''It's not about today; it's about the future,'' Mr. van Ark said. ''I hope that Mr. Cardoza and others will see the light.''
On Dec. 9, California's rail authority received a windfall of additional federal stimulus money -- some $600 million -- when Republican governors in Ohio and Wisconsin passed on money intended for their states. California voters approved high-speed rail in 2008, and deadlines are already passing, including a Dec. 31 cutoff for the state to finalize a plan to spend federal money in the Central Valley. Initial spending will span a raft of projects, including designing stations, redirecting nearby roads and acquiring land.
Still, many details need to be worked out, including the exact route, which must be able to accommodate conventional train systems in case the high-speed rail project fails to find enough financing to be completed. And that uncertainty unsettles local leaders.
''The communication has just been atrocious,'' said Mayor Robert Poythress of Madera. ''If there have been any messages, they've been mixed.''
Ronald W. Hoggard, the city manager of Corcoran, to the south, echoes that sentiment, worrying that the big money involved in the high-speed project -- the eventual price will be more than $40 billion -- will roll over his small-town concerns. ''When they talk about 'the train to nowhere,' we're not nowhere,'' Mr. Hoggard said. ''We're Mayberry.''
Mr. Hoggard says Corcoran, a city of 26,000 -- including 12,000 ''guests of the state'' at nearby prisons -- had spent years painstakingly restoring its main street, repainting store facades and improving City Hall, and he worries that the train will distract from the city's carefully shaped character.
''If they were to come through town, with an elevated track, at 85 decibels?'' he said. ''It's just inconsistent.''
Mr. van Ark said elevated lines passing through city centers were a possibility, but he played down their impact on small-town life. ''Trains do run through the centers of town in the rest of the world,'' he said.
The Central Valley is accustomed to rail lines, with freight trains loaded with double-decker cargo cars rolling day and night. And Corcoran itself has a small, quaint Amtrak depot in its downtown core.
Still, the selection of the first segment of rail line was a surprise. Other options included connecting major cities, like Los Angeles and Anaheim or San Francisco and San Jose. But the Federal Rail Administration required that the first federal money be spent in the hard-hit Central Valley.
Mr. van Ark pleads for patience, saying, ''This is not about building a line in the Central Valley.'' And indeed, while the first link may run from Bakersfield to that ghostly area outside Borden, that is not the final destination anyone has in mind.
''This is all about building an intercity, high-speed network,'' he said. ''One must put that above where this will start.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron Schaeffer at an Amtrak station in Corcoran, Calif., above, and railroad tracks outside town, top. Residents are concerned that a new highspeed rail line set to pass through will damage the town's cultivated character.
 Borden, Calif., is a ghost town with little remaining but a small cemetery for Chinese workers. The town could become the first northern terminus on the high-speed line. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); TRAINS (75%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (75%); APPROVALS (75%); FAST FOOD (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); IRRIGATION (50%)

PERSON: DENNIS A CARDOZA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



76 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Apple Will Shine in 2011, if Not as Blindingly

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and WEI GU

 BODY:
Large companies rarely grow fast, because of their sheer size. Yet Apple increased sales by more than 50 percent in 2010. That sent the company's market value up by an astonishing $100 billion, to nearly $300 billion.
The odds of the tech firm led by Steve Jobs repeating this wondrous performance are low. The shares are still a good bet, though. Apple's valuation looks oddly subdued once adjusted for its huge cash pile.
Apple's shares trade at about 19 times estimated earnings for fiscal 2011. By contrast, the forward multiple of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is just over 13. Apple has more than $50 billion of cash and investments on its books with zero debt. Subtract this cash, and Apple trades in line with the broader market. 
That might make sense if Apple's growth were sputtering. Analysts predict, however, that its sales will increase 35 percent this fiscal year, thanks to the popularity of the iPad and iPhone. That's astonishing given that revenue growth at companies as big as Apple generally matches the tempo of the overall economy. Moreover, Apple's business has operating leverage, which means profits should grow faster than sales, meriting a substantial premium to the stock price.
True, Wall Street often trends toward inflexible optimism. Yet a gut check suggests continuing sunny times at Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.
Sales of iPads are taking off sharply among big companies. Smartphone penetration in America is forecast to double in 2011. Macs have been gaining share, but are still less than 5 percent of the global computer market. And Apple's push into ads and TV could become big new sources of growth. Moreover, all the company's devices play well together, so people who use one Apple gadget often buy others. These trends will end someday, though probably not in the next few seasons.
It seems unfathomable that Apple will shine quite as brightly this year as it did in 2010. But the company could well be the most valuable company in America by the end of 2011.
Dueling Underwriters
General Motors' triumphant return to Wall Street showed that New York could still get the world's biggest capital markets deals done. But it was the Chinese exchanges that came out on top, and are likely to do so again in 2011.
China's big lead over its competitors will be difficult to trump. Hong Kong, Shanghai and Shenzhen together raised $110 billion in initial public offering proceeds in the first 11 months of 2010, 1.4 times the amount of the New York, Nasdaq and London exchanges combined.
Three themes should keep China's markets well stocked. First, there are privatizations. Though the Agricultural Bank of China may have been the last of the country's big bank deals, smaller ones like the Citic Group are still waiting. Fast-growing high-tech companies also are in great supply.
Then there are foreign companies, which may finally be able to list in Shanghai on a designated market in 2011. For global companies with their eyes on China, like the lenders HSBC and Standard Chartered, listing shares in China would help to raise renminbi capital for investment and give the companies a new currency with which to pay local employees. Hong Kong will continue to attract global brands that want to tap the ''China premium.''
The competition will be fierce. Nasdaq is the preferred home of Chinese Internet firms. And the New York Stock Exchange brought both prestige and big first-day share gains to the likes of SouFun Holdings. The Singapore bourse's planned merger with Australia's ASX stock exchange may set a precedent for those hoping to snag new Chinese share sales.
Still, China has two advantages: pent-up demand and the ability to keep companies at home. New rules in China on creating foreign company structures have made it harder for Chinese companies to list abroad. Foreign buyout firms have been encouraged to form renminbi funds to flip investments locally. The start of a growth market tailored to start-ups and tech firms helped Shenzhen become the world's busiest exchange.
This creates opportunities for ambitious Chinese brokerage firms. The top five underwriters in Asia during the first nine months of 2010 were all Chinese, led by the China International Capital Corporation, or C.I.C.C. A large Chinese bank, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, or I.C.B.C., even popped up abroad, working on the G.M. and Petrobras listings.
As China's capital markets expertise grows, traditionally dominant Western underwriters like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley will have a fight on their hands.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Beijing, a customer with the iPads he waited 60 hours in line for on Sept. 17. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); TRENDS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); CITIC GROUP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); 1288 (HKSE) (81%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); EAST CHINA (66%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%); SOUTH CHINA (66%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (55%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



77 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths VOJTA, GEORGE J

 BODY:
VOJTA--George J. Born November 13, 1935, died peacefully on December 22, 2010. He is survived by his wife, Susan Hubbard, sons Christopher and Timothy, grandchildren George II, Charles and Grace, and daughters-in-law Deneen and Amber. He received Bachelors and Masters Degrees from Yale University. He spent most of his career at Citigroup -- then First National City Bank -- where he rose to Executive Vice President. 
Most notably, he ran Strategic Planning and the International Division. The remainder of his career was spent at top-tier financial institutions, in particular Bankers Trust, where he was Vice Chairman of the Board. He was known for his expertise in financial strategy and risk management. In addition, he played a prominent role in the restructuring of the global financial system and banking reform following the financial crises of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, consulting with the World Bank, the Bank for International Settlements, and individual countries. He also served as a board member of many distinguished enterprises, including: Northwest Airlines, Private Export Funding Corporation (PEFCO), Miles Laboratories and Urstadt-Biddle Properties. He was also a Director of the New York State Banking Board, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Fellow of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Chairman of the Financial Institutions Center of the Wharton School and Board Member of International Executive Service Corps. He was Chairman of the Board of the Yale Center for Corporate Governance & Performance, a Trustee of Lawrence Hospital, Founding Board Member of the Bronxville School Foundation, Chairman of the Bronxville Public Schools Long Range Planning Committee, Chairman of the Investment Committee for Sarah Lawrence College and member of the board of St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital. He advocated for financial standards and corporate reform throughout his career, writing numerous books and articles. His most well-known publications include the article "Bank Capital Adequacy" in 1974, the book "Beyond Human Scale" co-authored with Eli Ginsberg in 1983 and the book "Globalization for All" in 2010. After he retired, he founded the eStandardsForum, a formal platform for his advocacy. He was an avid golfer, fisherman, hunter and piano player. He was a member of The Blind Brook Club, Clove Valley Rod and Gun Club, The River Club, Siwanoy Country Club and The Lost Tree Club. He leaves behind a legacy of compassion and service. His family and friends will miss him. A Memorial Service will take place at the Reformed Church of Bronxville on Saturday, January 29 at 11:00am In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be sent in his name to the following: The Lawrence Hospital Cancer Center 55 Palmer Avenue Bronxville, NY 10708.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); AIRLINES (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); GOLF (60%); CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); PRIVATE EXPORT FUNDING CORP (69%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE SERVICE CORPS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



78 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: China Quietly Extends Its Footprints Deep Into Central Asia

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Xiyun Yang and Benjamin Haas contributed research from Beijing. Teo Kaye contributed reporting from Zharkent, Kazakhstan.

 BODY:
MURGHAB, Tajikistan -- On the outskirts of this wind-scoured town, founded in 1893 as a Russian military post, the construction of a new customs compound heralds the return of another major power.
When it opens this year, the sprawling new lot will accommodate much larger caravans of Chinese trucks than the existing trade depot, speeding the flow of clothing, electronics and household appliances that have lately flooded Central Asia, from nomadic yurts on the Kyrgyz steppes to ancient alleyways in Samarkand and Bukhara.
''Trade is growing between China and all these countries around it,'' said Tu'er Hong, whose truck was one of about 50 from China transferring goods to Tajik drivers one day recently at the current post.
While China is seizing the spotlight in East and Southeast Asia with its widening economic footprint and muscular diplomacy, it is also quietly making its presence felt on its western flank, once primarily Russia's domain. 
Chinese officials see Central Asia as a critical frontier for their nation's energy security, trade expansion, ethnic stability and military defense. State enterprises have reached deep into the region with energy pipelines, railroads and highways, while the government has recently opened Confucius Institutes to teach Mandarin in capitals across Central Asia.
Central Asia, says Gen. Liu Yazhou of the People's Liberation Army, is ''the thickest piece of cake given to the modern Chinese by the heavens.''
The five predominantly Muslim countries that won independence after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- are once again arenas for superpower rivalry, much as the region was during the 19th century Great Game between Russia and Britain. This time the players are China, Russia and the United States, which uses Central Asia as a conduit for troops to Afghanistan.
Chinese officials are wary of what they view as American efforts to surround China, seeing American troops and military alliances in Central Asia, India and Afghanistan as the western arc of a containment strategy that also relies on cooperation with nations in East and Southeast Asia.
China is flexing its own military muscle in the area, conducting sophisticated war games in Kazakhstan in September as part of annual exercises that traditionally include several Central Asian nations. According to a State Department cable released by WikiLeaks, American officials suspected China of offering Kyrgyzstan $3 billion to shut down the American air base there.
The cable, dated Feb. 13, 2009, described an awkward meeting between Tatiana C. Gfoeller, the American ambassador to Kyrgyzstan, and Zhang Yannian, the Chinese ambassador there, in which Ms. Gfoeller confronted Mr. Zhang with her suspicions of the $3 billion bribe. ''Visibly flustered, Zhang temporarily lost the ability to speak Russian and began spluttering in Chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him,'' the cable said. Mr. Zhang then rebutted the accusation.
But China's new presence in Central Asia is in many ways more Silk Road revival than Great Game redux. Chinese analysts say one goal of Beijing is to economically integrate Central Asia with the restive western region of Xinjiang, breaking down trade barriers, even if the Central Asian governments are wary.
''The growing economic footprint in Central Asia is pretty significant,'' said an American official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about Chinese policy in the region. ''In many ways, the investments are welcomed, not only by those countries, but also by the U.S. But there's a lack of transparency in terms of China's investments and relations with those countries.''
Local people are cautious too, especially in Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, where they have long feared that Chinese migration could tip the balance of economic power in sparsely populated countries. In Almaty, Kazakhstan, a protest erupted last January against a proposed land deal involving China.
''Many of us Kazakhs are very suspicious of the Chinese influx in general, but what can we do?'' said Aidelhan Onbedbayev, 35, a driver who shuttles merchants and travelers between Almaty and Zharkent, a border town. ''The government makes these decisions and invites them in for investment with free-trade zones and land offers.''
Some Chinese officials have been blunt about their interests.
''China's energy cooperation with Central Asian countries began in the 1990s, but in recent years, with the rapid growth of China's national strength, China took advantage of the lack of initiative in the region by the United States and Russia,'' General Liu wrote in an essay published last summer in the news magazine Phoenix Weekly. ''China has begun stimulating feverish consumerism in the area.''
The Central Asian nations bordering China, especially Kyrgyzstan, have become an important transit point for Chinese goods that make their way to the Caspian Sea region, Russia and Europe. Trade between China and the five Central Asian countries totaled $25.9 billion in 2009, up from $527 million in 1992, according to Commerce Ministry statistics.
Meanwhile, new pipelines are transporting oil and natural gas to Xinjiang from fields in Central Asia where Chinese companies have bought development rights. Chinese officials see Central Asia and the Caspian Sea as a crucial alternative source of energy; the Middle East is politically unstable, and tankers from there pass through the Strait of Malacca, which China fears could be closed by the United States military or other forces.
China also sees Central Asia as a foothold for maintaining stability in Xinjiang, where longstanding tensions between Muslim Uighurs and ethnic Han have exploded into deadly violence. Since ethnic rioting in 2009 in Xinjiang, Chinese officials have been especially wary of radical Islam filtering in from the Central Asian nations or Pakistan and Afghanistan, analysts say. About a half-million Uighurs live in the region, many of them immigrants from Xinjiang to Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
In 1996, China helped establish a precursor to the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a regional strategy group aimed mainly at combating separatist unrest. The group's members, including Russia and most Central Asian countries, share intelligence and conduct joint military exercises, even if they often fail to coordinate larger policy because of competing interests, American officials say.
China also hopes to use the group to extend its economic influence. Last year, China granted $10 billion in loans to the Shanghai Cooperation Organization nations ''to shore up the struggling economies.''
Some Chinese officials and analysts hope such aid, along with strengthened commercial ties, will lead to economic growth in Xinjiang and less unrest among Uighurs. Central government officials submitted a proposal last year to the State Council, the Chinese cabinet, to transform Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang and the site of the 2009 riots, into a regional energy production hub.
''China has always paid attention to these surrounding countries, promoting peaceful development in those countries in order to provide a good environment for China's economic growth,'' said Wu Hongwei, a Central Asia scholar at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
China's growing thirst for oil and gas has made those a matter of strategic energy security. Two new pipelines, the first between China and foreign countries, supply it with gas from Turkmenistan and oil from Kazakhstan.
The pipelines were considered important enough that President Hu Jintao went to the Karakum Desert of Turkmenistan in 2009 to turn a symbolic wheel opening the 1,100-mile pipeline there.
That pipeline is expected to reach its full capacity of 40 billion cubic meters by 2012 or 2013, and Turkmenistan has been contracted to transport gas to China for 30 years. China wrangled the only license to develop the South Yolotan gas fields there, among the world's largest.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Jan. 3 about China's increasing economic ties in Central Asia misstated the year in which China helped establish a precursor to the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a regional strategy group that includes Russia and most Central Asian nations. It was in 1996, not in 1966.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kyrgyz shepherds in Tajikistan packed a Chinese solar panel. Chinese goods like clothing, electronics and appliances have lately flooded Central Asia.
 Chinese merchants have set up shops inside containers at a market in Kyrgyzstan, selling items like DVD players and stuffed animals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THEODORE KAYE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A new customs compound is to open this year on the outskirts of Murghab. It will help speed the flow of Chinese goods. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); ASIA (96%); KYRGYZSTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011



79 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Buy These Stamps, and Forget About Rate Increases

BYLINE: By MATTHEW HEALEY

 BODY:
About 70 new stamp designs that the United States Postal Service plans to issue this year will commemorate familiar themes and subjects: famous people, historic events, America's cultural heritage and holidays. But in a twist, nearly every new first-class stamp will bear the word ''Forever'' in place of a monetary denomination, and will remain valid regardless of any price increases.
President Ronald Reagan, former Representative Barbara Jordan, the actor Gregory Peck and the singer Selena are all due to be honored on stamps in 2011, along with the Lunar New Year, the Indianapolis 500, jazz music, American industrial designers and the 150th anniversaries of Kansas' statehood and the outbreak of the Civil War. 
The volume of first-class mail has declined precipitously in recent years, but collecting stamps is still big business.
The Postal Service reported delivering 170 billion pieces of mail in the year ending Sept. 30, down from 202 billion two years earlier. It also reported a net loss of $8.5 billion. But the sale of stamps to collectors brought in an estimated $300 million last year, said Roy A. Betts, a Postal Service spokesman. In 2005, collectors bought about $200 million worth of stamps.
When the Postal Service announced its lineup of 2011 stamps in August, it planned for most of them to be inscribed with ''44,'' or whatever the rate would be at the time for a first-class letter.
The Postal Service's request for an emergency 2-cent increase to cover financial losses was turned down by the Postal Regulatory Commission in the fall, although the post office is allowed to raise first-class rates by an amount not exceeding the annual inflation rate without approval. That would translate to a 1-cent increase from the current rate, which is still 44 cents. The rate had been expected to go up in February, but Mr. Betts said that was ''not going to happen.'' The new postmaster general, Patrick R. Donahoe, plans to make an announcement when he is sworn in Jan. 14.
Mr. Reagan was honored by a 37-cent stamp in 2005, shortly after his death. That design was reissued the following year, when the rate was 39 cents. Those stamps are still valid, but users must add postage to equal the full current rate. That would be unnecessary with the new stamp, which will mark the centennial of Mr. Reagan's birth in February.
The Postal Service issued its first ''Forever'' stamp in 2007 with a generic Liberty Bell design. Other countries have issued nondenominated commemorative stamps for years: Britain inscribes its issues with ''1st,'' and Canada's stamps have a small red maple leaf and a ''P'' for permanent.
The stamp commemorating Ms. Jordan, the Texas congresswoman, who died in 1996, is to be issued in September as part of the annual Black Heritage series. The Peck stamp, to be issued in April, is also part of a continuing series, Legends of Hollywood.
Selena, who was killed in 1995, will be honored as part of a Latin music set that will include stamps for Tito Puente, Carmen Miranda, Carlos Gardel and Celia Cruz. Other issues will pay tribute to 12 ''pioneers of American industrial design'' as well as Mark Twain, the painter Edward Hopper, the astronaut Alan B. Shepard Jr., the actress Helen Hayes and a dog named Owney, a 19-century post office mascot who resides, stuffed, in the Smithsonian Institution's National Postal Museum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New first-class stamps issued this year will be marked with the word ''Forever'' instead of a price. The word has been struck out in these images to prevent reproduction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (89%); OFFICE DESIGN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); AUTO RACING (55%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



80 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Major Party Walks Out Of Coalition In Pakistan

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- The second-largest party in the ruling coalition here announced late Sunday that it was ending its partnership with the Pakistan Peoples Party, putting into question the fate of Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani's government, which is grappling with a fragile economy as it tries to ward off political and terrorism-related troubles.
Although the coalition partner, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, or M.Q.M., cited rising fuel prices, inflation and mismanagement by the government as the reasons for the move, some analysts said it was a pretext to negotiate a larger role in the national coalition and in Sindh Province, whose capital, Karachi, is the country's financial hub. 
''This is not going to lead to the fall of the government,'' said Najam Sethi, one of the country's leading political analysts, but he conceded that ''this is a very tricky situation.''
Although the M.Q.M. left the national coalition, depriving it of a majority in the National Assembly, it remained in the coalition government in Sindh.
''These guys are just trying to negotiate to extract maximum concessions and are playing to the national sentiment,'' Mr. Sethi said. ''These are just political tactics, and if there was a move to bring down the government, then there would have been better coordination between opposition parties.''
Other analysts agreed that the opposition was too fragmented to oust the government. The M.Q.M has indicated that it will not try to destabilize the government.
Although the government is expected to survive, for now, the move further weakens a coalition that is struggling to govern and that the United States is pressing to cooperate more fully in the war in Afghanistan and in opposition to the Taliban.
President Asif Ali Zardari, who is a co-chairman of the Pakistan Peoples Party, has spent the last several days in Karachi trying to iron out differences with the M.Q.M., which traditionally has had a hold over the city.
Mr. Gilani tried to assure the nation, rather despairingly, that his government would survive despite the sudden turn of events. ''I don't see any crisis,'' he was quoted as saying by local news media outlets.
In theory, the loss of the M.Q.M. leaves Mr. Gilani's government susceptible to a vote of no confidence in the National Assembly. But such a vote would require cooperation among all opposition parties, and that is seen as unlikely.
Ejaz Haider, a leading political commentator and a contributing editor of The Friday Times, a Lahore-based weekly, said the political crisis could unfold in various ways, subject in large part to decisions by the M.Q.M. ''The next week is going to be interesting,'' Mr. Haider said.
Mr. Sethi said: ''Nobody wants an election right now. All political actors want the government to deal with difficult questions like the economy, relations with America, terrorism.''
Arif Rafiq, a political analyst based in Washington, agreed. ''No one wants to rule in Islamabad right now,'' Mr. Rafiq said. ''The economy is a mess, and the International Monetary Fund is pushing the federal government to impose deeply unpopular taxes. I do not anticipate a push for a confidence vote or the fall of the government in the next few months.''
''What we'll have is an extremely weak Gilani government vulnerable to exploitation from a number of parties, including religious parties and the M.Q.M.,'' he added.
''These parties will continue to oppose new taxes and a military operation in North Waziristan. The P.P.P. government will be sandwiched between the U.S. and I.M.F. on one side and the opposition parties on the other.''
Mr. Haider predicted, however, that the government would not be able to complete its five-year term, which began after elections in 2008.
There has been some speculation that President Zardari has had differences with Mr. Gilani, who has started to act more independently despite having been nominated by the president.
''I think President Zardari is not too concerned right now,'' Mr. Sethi said. ''The heat is off Zardari and it is on Prime Minister Gilani. Either this will eventually lead to a change of the prime minister or Mr. Gilani would have to get his act together.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALIBAN (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TERRORISM (56%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (78%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (90%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



81 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. NEWCOMERS SET OUT TO UNDO OBAMA VICTORIES

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Soon after the 112th Congress convenes Wednesday, Republicans in the House plan to make good on a campaign promise that helped vault many new members to victory: voting to repeal President Obama's health care overhaul.
The vote, which Republican leaders pledged would occur before the president's State of the Union address later this month, is intended both to appeal to the Tea Party-influenced factions of the House Republican base and to emphasize the muscle of the new party in power. But it could also produce an unintended consequence: a chance for Democrats once again to try their case in support of the health care overhaul before the American public.
Democrats, who in many cases looked on the law as a rabid beast best avoided in the fall elections, are reversing course, gearing up for a coordinated all-out effort to preserve and defend it. Under the law, they say, consumers are already receiving tangible benefits that Republicans would snatch away.
House Democrats will get help from allies in the Senate, who can stop any repeal, and at the White House, where officials hope to transform the law from a political liability into an asset, a centerpiece of President Obama's expected bid for re-election. 
Health care is only one item on an aggressive agenda of Republicans eager to distinguish themselves quickly from the House that was run by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Many seem to have latched on to ''Undo It'' the hit by the country singer Carrie Underwood, as the refrain for their planned attack against legislation that grew out of the 111th Congress, when the Democrats were at the helm in both chambers.
The health care law, entitlement programs, new limits on emissions of greenhouse gases from oil refineries and power plants, and other legislation that Republicans say cannot be justified by a strict interpretation of the Constitution -- a document the new leaders plan to read on the House floor on Thursday -- are all in the cross hairs.
While President Obama and Republicans were able to work together during last month's lame-duck session -- to the vocal consternation of the most partisan ends of each party's base -- to pass a tax package and a variety of last-minute legislation, including the repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and the ratification of the anti-nuclear proliferation treaty with Russia, such bipartisan consensus seems unlikely at the outset of the new House session.
Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, who is in line to succeed Ms. Pelosi, has said that this time around he would lead efforts to revive the private sector by reducing the size of government -- cutting federal regulation, taxes and spending, including the budget of Congress itself.
Mr. Boehner also said Republicans would alter House rules to make it easier to curb government spending and to require more public disclosure about the work of the House.
A flat-out repeal of the health care law would face a steep hurdle in the Senate, where Democrats still cling to a diminished majority, and would most certainly be vetoed by President Obama. But Representative Fred Upton of Michigan, the incoming chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said the House action would not be merely symbolic. ''If we pass this bill with a sizable vote, and I think that we will, it will put enormous pressure on the Senate to do perhaps the same thing,'' Mr. Upton said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''But then, after that, we're going to go after this bill piece by piece.''
Certainly as a political matter, the House debate may be the first battle in the new era of divided government, with each side struggling to present itself as the voters' voice on an issue that has deeply divided the country.
''Many of the incoming Republican congressmen campaigned on the platform that included repealing Obamacare,'' Representative Doug Lamborn, Republican of Colorado, said in an interview. ''This was the biggest mistake made by the 111th Congress.''
The repeal effort is part of a multipronged systematic strategy that House Republican leaders say will include trying to cut off money for the law, summoning Obama administration officials to testify at investigative hearings and encouraging state officials to attack the law in court as unconstitutional.
For House Republicans, a repeal vote would also be an important, if largely symbolic, opening salvo against the president, his party and his policy agenda.
''Obamacare didn't lower costs and does not allow people to keep the care they have if they like it, as the president promised,'' said Brad Dayspring, a spokesman for Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, the incoming House majority leader. ''There will be a straight vote to repeal it prior to the State of the Union,'' expected in late January.
Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, said: ''It's important that we repeal Obamacare as soon as possible because it is already harming the economy and killing jobs. Employers are seeing their costs for providing health insurance skyrocket, and that's causing them to hold off on hiring and job creation.''
Ms. Bachmann had introduced a bill to repeal the health care overhaul in March, a day before it was signed into law.
For their part, the Obama administration and Democrats, who largely lost the health care message war in the raucous legislative process, see the renewed debate as a chance to show that the law will be a boon to millions of Americans and hope to turn ''Obamacare'' from a pejorative into a tag for one of the president's proudest achievements.
Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the White House Office of Health Reform, is coordinating the administration's response. In a recent speech, she cataloged the damage she said would be done by the law's repeal. Outside groups that fought for the law, like Families USA and Health Care for America Now, also say they will join the fight to preserve it.
Representative Robert E. Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, challenged the Republicans to bring it on. ''We will respond by pointing out the impact of repeal on people's lives,'' Mr. Andrews said. ''On women with cancer who could be denied insurance because of a pre-existing condition. On senior citizens who would lose the help they are receiving to pay for prescriptions.''
Democrats argue that repeal would increase the number of uninsured; put insurers back in control of health insurance, allowing them to increase premiums at will; and lead to explosive growth in the federal budget deficit.
''For months, Republicans have been shoveling out hypocrisy and lies to the American public,'' said Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York. Mr. Crowley and more than 60 other House Democrats have demanded that lawmakers pushing for repeal of the new law give up their own government-subsidized health insurance.
The Democrats say Republicans will make a mistake if they focus first on repeal, rather than on finding additional ways to stimulate the economy and create jobs -- a mirror image of criticism that Republicans lobbed at Democrats for the last 18 months.
Republicans appear to have greased the wheels for swift action on their repeal bill, much as Democrats moved with lightning speed to pass some of their top priorities after taking control of the House in January 2007.
Under new rules drafted by House Republicans in an effort to bolster fiscal discipline, lawmakers must show how they will pay for legislation that increases the deficit. But a bill repealing the health care law would be explicitly exempted from that requirement.
The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the health care overhaul will reduce deficits by more than $140 billion over 10 years, largely because new spending will be more than offset by new taxes and cutbacks in the growth of Medicare.
Brandishing the budget office estimate, Democrats, often branded as fiscally irresponsible, are prepared to slam the Republicans as hypocrites.
''In their first month, House Republicans will break one of their first promises,'' Mr. Andrews said. ''They will pass legislation that significantly increases the deficit. And they will ignore the impact on the deficit.''
Republicans defend their decision by maintaining that in the long run, the federal government cannot afford the commitments in the law, which would vastly expand Medicaid eligibility and subsidize private insurance for millions of Americans.
The new Congress is also likely to be dominated by bitter fights over federal spending and borrowing, with a vote expected this spring on legislation to increase the federal debt.
Austan D. Goolsbee, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said Sunday that hitting the debt's $14.3 trillion ceiling without extending it would mean ''essentially defaulting on our obligations, which is totally unprecedented in American history.''
''The impact on the economy would be catastrophic,'' Mr. Goolsbee said on ''This Week With Christiane Amanpour'' on ABC, and would lead to ''a worse financial economic crisis than anything we saw in 2008.''
But Allen West, a Florida Republican who will take office this week, seemed to speak for many of his House Republican colleagues on Sunday. ''The only way that I would ever support raising the debt limit is if we also talk about budgetary controls on the federal government, capping its spending,'' he said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
It is clear that as Congress prepares to convene, Republicans have little desire to wait to carve out the territory separating them from their Democratic colleagues on many issues. As one incoming freshman, Representative-elect Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, said: ''It is important for conservatives to make sure we govern consistent with our platform on the campaign trail. If we are going to do that, we had better start immediately.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); COUNTRY MUSIC (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); BUDGETS (64%); EMISSIONS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



82 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Courage?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Several letters about the lame-duck Congress (''What Obama and Congress Achieved,'' Dec. 24) are lavish in their praise of the president's courage, statesmanship and savvy. Allow me to give the contrarian view. 
The Republicans wanted mainly two things from the lame-duck session: (1) extension of the Bush-era tax cuts for top earners, and (2) the payroll tax holiday. The first is a budget buster, and the second is, not to overstate the case, a knife aimed at the heart of Social Security.
The argument has been made that these giveaways were required to achieve an extension of unemployment benefits. Don't buy that for a minute. If the president had shown true courage and barnstormed the country, the Republicans would have caved on unemployment.
James Tropp Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX RELIEF (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



83 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: With Much at Stake, a Peaceful Vote on Dividing Sudan Appears More Likely

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
KHARTOUM, Sudan -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has called the situation ''a ticking time bomb.''
A team of British researchers are so concerned about the prospects of a conflict that they published a study on the possible price tag: $100 billion.
Even George Clooney is focusing on it and has joined with Google to monitor the potential battlefields, by satellite imagery.
But what, really, are the chances that the independence referendum in southern Sudan on Jan. 9, the culmination of a peace process that ended decades of civil war between north and south, will set off another one?
It seems the chances are slim and getting slimmer. 
True, Sudan is a vast, poor country with a long track record of conflict. Arms are easy to get here and militias roam just about every corner of the country. The referendum will indeed be delicate because the south will most likely vote (by about 99 percent) to secede, splitting the largest country in Africa in two and taking with it most of Sudan's oil.
But as the clock counts down toward voting day, despite earlier prognostications of a delay, there are more and more signs that things will go smoothly.
Just last week, Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, publicly pledged to help his ''southern brothers'' and said he would be ''the first to recognize the south.''
''The ball is in your court,'' he said at a rally.
Amr Moussa, secretary general of the Arab League, is also confident the vote will be peaceful. ''I don't feel any inclination to hostilities between the two parties,'' he said, according to Sudan's news agency.
The stakes are so high that neither side, the Islamist northern government or the former rebels who lead southern Sudan, seems to want to be sucked into a war again, or at least to start one. Over the past year, there has been such a steady drumbeat of Armageddon predictions that most potential problems have already been prepared for and Western diplomats have spent countless hours counseling both sides. The stage is now set for the vote to be historic and highly emotional, but not catastrophic.
Both sides, according to many analysts, are more pragmatic than they are often given credit for. Despite being portrayed as careless brutes in many Western countries, the Islamist cabal that controls Sudan, starting with Mr. Bashir, has shown surprising elasticity.
Mr. Bashir has been indicted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges, the United States and the United Nations have imposed sanctions on northern Sudan and the rebellion in Darfur continues to grind on. But Mr. Bashir and company remain firmly in control in Khartoum, the capital, which continues to get hefty diplomatic and financial support from China and the Arab world. And now they seem especially eager to normalize relations with the West and know that interference with the referendum would torpedo any chance of that happening.
Though the north will clearly lose out if the south breaks off, northern leaders seem to have accepted that there is little they can do about it. According to Mohammed Hamad, a political science professor in Khartoum, Mr. Bashir will be reluctant to go to war because ''others will use it as an excuse, and Israel and the U.S. will try to depose the regime.''
Whether there is any truth to this theory may be immaterial, since many in Khartoum seem to firmly believe it.
The southern leaders, for their part, do not want a war. Why would they? They are on the verge of peacefully achieving what has taken decades of sacrifice. More than two million people were killed in the north-south civil war, which began in the 1950s and pitted animist and Christian rebels in the south against Arab rulers in the north.
The southern leaders have been enjoying a taste of autonomy since 2005, when a north-south peace treaty was signed. They have rebuilt towns and invested hundreds of millions, perhaps even billions, in roads, ministries, schools and factories, much of which could be bombed into oblivion in a few days by the north's growing air force. To keep their dreams of independence alive, the southerners seem ready to make concessions. This includes sharing the oil.
''We're not about to cut the pipes,'' said Gideon Gatpan Thoar, the information minister for Unity State, one of the oil-rich states in the south.
Oil may ultimately hold Sudan together. Though the south produces about 75 percent of Sudan's crude, it is landlocked, and the pipeline to export the oil runs through the north. Mr. Thoar said it would be a ''disaster'' to do anything to stop the flow of oil, which provides both north and south with a huge percentage of government revenue.
On their side, the northerners seem ready to give up some oil and take the economic hit.
''The north will suffer,'' said Ghazi Salah al-Din al-Atabani, a top adviser to Mr. Bashir. ''We expect, after secession and the loss of oil revenue, that we will have to impose more stringent economic measures. Definitely there is going to be a setback at the very beginning.''
The biggest risk, then, that a war will break out seems to lie in the uncontrolled elements, the ''unknown unknowns,'' as former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld famously said.
For example, in Abyei, one disputed area along the yet-to-be-demarcated north-south border, there are militias aligned to the north and to the south, but they are not necessarily controlled by either. According to several analysts, these militias could fire the first shots, possibly provoked by a land dispute. Then the northern and southern armies, both of which have been buying enormous quantities of weapons in recent years, could pile in.
Beyond that, there are rebels in Darfur in the west, rebels in the east, rebels in the Nuba Mountains and along the Nile River, raising fears that if war erupted, it could spread rapidly.
''I can imagine the east going off; I can imagine Darfur going off; I can imagine the rest of the Sudan; but to disintegrate this area, it is difficult,'' said Mr. Hamad, the political science professor in Khartoum, referring to the central Sudanese heartland around the Nile. ''The inhabitants here are not tribal. I have never consulted my tribal elders to solve any problems. I go to the police, I go to school.''
He continued: ''The people of central Sudan -- and this is very important for you to understand the future of Sudan -- are pro-state, and they accept the government, and when they depose a government, they depose it to bring a better government.''
''There will be decay, maybe,'' he said, after the separation of the south. ''But disintegration, no.''
He and others also predicted that in coming days, northern and southern leaders might agree to divide the Abyei territory, which would significantly reduce the chances of a conflict.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People returning from northern Sudan waited last week near Aweil, in southern Sudan, for food from theWorld Food Program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORAN TOMASEVIC/REUTERS) MAP: A future north-south border in Sudan has yet to be settled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); INDICTMENTS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); GENOCIDE (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); GEORGE CLOONEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (89%) SUDAN (99%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



84 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: After Two Slow Years, an Industry Rebound Begins

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA and STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
WHEN Stephen Colbert wanted to raise money for the recovery efforts after the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, he worked with a behemoth technology company, Microsoft. Every time Mr. Colbert said the word ''Bing'' on the ''Colbert Report,'' the company donated $2,500 to the Colbert Nation Gulf of America Fund.
That effort at brand integration raised $100,000 for the charity and increased recognition for Microsoft's search engine. And in 2011, it is the type of advertising that the company plans to continue pursuing.
''Media partners have woken up and realized they can interrupt their viewer less and potentially do more for marketers,'' said Gayle Troberman, the chief creative officer for Microsoft marketing. 
Television advertising, whether through integrated-brand campaigns like Microsoft's or otherwise, has been one of the bright spots as the advertising industry begins to recover from the devastating effects of the recession and marketers experiment with a variety of new ways to reach the audience.
During the financial crisis and its aftermath, most advertisers reduced spending in virtually all forms of media, even those that had been enjoying strong growth in ad revenue. Now, a recovery seems to be taking hold on Madison Avenue and conditions are widely perceived as improving.
''This is more like it,'' said David F. Poltrack, chief research officer at the CBS Corporation and president of the CBS Vision unit. ''After two years that have not been pleasant for any of us, things are looking up.''
Mr. Poltrack's boss, Leslie Moonves, president and chief executive of CBS, said he had already looked at some results for the first quarter of the new year and, for the company's local businesses, the increases were ''equal to what they are in the third and fourth quarter'' of 2010, ''which is pretty remarkable.''
Also, demand is strong for commercial time on the national CBS network that is bought on a short-term basis, Mr. Moonves said, in what is known as the scatter market.
Those prices are 35 percent higher than the prices for commercial time that CBS sold in the spring on a long-term basis, he added, in what is known as the upfront market.
Nancy Hill, president and chief executive of the Four A's, the trade association for ad agencies, said that despite ''concerns on Main Street'' about the economy, ''I believe that economic improvement will be consistent and robust in 2011; the signs are all there.''
The trends that were remaking the industry before 2008 appear to be picking up where they left off. That means this year is likely to bring rapid growth for spending on ads in new media, resumed growth for spending on television advertising and struggles for print media, particularly newspapers.
According to data from Kantar Media, advertising expenditures for all media for the first half of 2010 increased 5.7 percent from 2009 to about $63.6 billion. Television advertising led the pack in spending because of an increase in demand from the automotive and retail markets, and political advertising.
Spending on advertising in local newspapers showed a significant decline over the last 19 quarters, with a 4.6 percent decrease for the first half of 2010 compared with the same period in 2009, according to data from Kantar Media.
For the first time, advertisers are projected to have spent more on online ads than on newspaper ads in 2010, according to data by eMarketer.
''The bad economy has actually accelerated the shift to digital advertising,'' Geoff Ramsey, the chief executive of eMarketer, said in a statement. ''Online ads, especially search ads, are increasingly seen by many marketers as a more reliable bet than print ads, which are often difficult to tie to a measurable financial result.''
For brands like Microsoft, Web analytics and research are driving much of the investment into digital media.
''As marketers, we're getting much more sophisticated about digital marketing as a core part of the mix,'' Ms. Troberman said. The company also sees future investment in experiential marketing and social media, which is still an area many marketers are experimenting with.
To promote its Kinect controller for the Xbox 360 last fall, Microsoft introduced ''The Kinect for Xbox 360 Tour'' and set up locations in various cities where people could play with the Kinect and post videos on a Web site where users could comment. ''As technology moves to a more social universe, we definitely see ourselves investing more,'' Ms. Troberman said.
General Electric also plans to continue investing in digital initiatives in the new year. For its Ecomagination campaign, the company used a combination of media including user-generated videos on YouTube, a photo contest on Flickr, instructional Web videos on how to be more environmentally friendly and iAds for mobile devices like iPhones.
''The results have been phenomenal,'' said Judy Hu, the global executive director for advertising and branding at G.E. ''We are undoubtedly going to be doing more of this.'' Ms. Hu said the company also planned to expand the number of digital companies it worked with to apply their expertise in the digital ad space.
Over all, advertisers will continue to have more options to choose from but they will also have to work harder to find their audience.
''Fragmentation of audiences leads to expansion and fragmentation of advertising inventory,'' said Jon Swallen, the senior vice president for research at Kantar Media. For advertisers, ''there is more choice, more flexibility, more negotiating power than they've enjoyed in the past,'' he said.
The fastest growing media will be online video and mobile, said Brian Wieser, executive vice president and director of global forecasting at Magnaglobal, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Digital initiatives like social media are ''increasingly a part of every major campaign in some way,'' Mr. Wieser said, ''even if it's just a Facebook page.''
In a study conducted by Break Media and Advertiser Perceptions, 70 percent of advertisers responding to the survey said they planned to increase their spending on digital video in 2011.
PricewaterhouseCoopers is predicting that spending for online video will increase this year by 38.6 percent from 2010, coming on top of a 39.5 percent increase in 2010 compared with 2009.
Paran Johar, chief executive at Jumptap, is predicting that mobile ''will get its own allocation in advertisers' marketing budgets'' this year as the amount of money devoted to mobile video grows.
Turning to traditional media, Mr. Wieser said, ''television continues to be resilient,'' while ''you certainly see weakness in print media.''
Steve King, chief executive at the ZenithOptimedia media division of the Publicis Groupe, said that from 2011 to 2013, Internet advertising would increase 48 percent; followed by commercials on TV and in movie theaters, up 19 percent; outdoor advertising, up 18 percent; and radio, up 10 percent.
Print advertising, by comparison, will fall 2 percent, Mr. King said.
Generally, ''we are seeing a recovery,'' Mr. King said, ''although it is more muted than those after previous downturns.'' The amount of money spent on ads in 2008 will not be met and exceeded until 2012, he added.
Adam Smith, futures director at GroupM, the media unit of WPP, attributed about a third of the recovery in ad spending to decisions by marketers of beverage and personal-care products to increase their budgets, followed by sellers of automobiles and financial services, which accounted for a quarter of the recovery.
''The general tenor of clients seems to be on the side of optimism,'' Mr. Smith said.
One reason for the resiliency of television as an ad medium, he added, is that many consumers are going online or using their mobile devices as they watch TV, meaning that new media are feeding the growth of a traditional medium rather than stunting it.
There are forecasters, however, who believe that another traditional medium -- print -- may benefit from a new medium -- tablets -- rather than be cannibalized by it.
''Some big breakthroughs are on the way for print media to move onto the tablet,'' said Nick Pahade, chief executive at Traffiq, a digital media buying company, ''which will spur more rapid consumer adoption.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kinect players in Florida. In the fall, Microsoft promoted its new controller with demonstrations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)
Nancy Hill of the Four A's said there were signs of robust economic improvement. Leslie Moonves of CBS said demand was strong for spots on the national network bought on a short-term basis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ART BEAULIEU
 DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); TRENDS (77%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (76%); BRANDING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); OIL SPILLS (58%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); CBS CORP (82%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); CBS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (90%); LESLIE MOONVES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011



85 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: The Achievement Test

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Unless something big and unexpected happens, 2011 will be consumed by a debate over the size of government. Republicans will launch a critique of big government as part of their effort to cut spending. Democrats will surge to the barricades to defend federal programs.
This debate will be contentious, but I hope it's not rude to mention that it will be largely beside the point. National destinies are not shaped by what percentage of G.D.P. federal spending consumes. They are shaped by the character and behavior of citizens. The crucial issue is not whether the federal government takes up 19 percent or 23 percent of national income. The crucial question is: How does government influence how people live? 
There have been cases when big government has encouraged virtuous behavior (in the U.S. during World War II), and cases when big government has encouraged self-indulgence and irresponsibility (modern Greece). There have been cases when small government was accompanied by enterprise and development, and cases when small government has led to lawlessness, corruption and distrust.
The size of government doesn't tell you what you need to know; the social and moral content of government action does. The budgeteers and the technicians may not like it, but it's the values inculcated by policies that matter most.
The best way to measure government is not by volume, but by what you might call the Achievement Test. Does a given policy arouse energy, foster skills, spur social mobility and help people transform their lives? Over the years, America has benefited from policies that passed this test, like the Homestead Act and the G.I. Bill. Occasionally, the U.S. government has initiated programs that failed it. The welfare policies of the 1960s gave people money without asking for work and personal responsibility in return, and these had to be replaced. The welfare reforms of the 1990s involved big and intrusive government, but they did the job because they were in line with American values, linking effort to reward.
Over the past few decades, Americans have waged political war as if all that matters is the amount of money going into federal coffers. The fights have been about ''cutting government'' or ''raising revenue.'' But amid this season of distraction the entire society suffered a loss of values and almost nobody noticed until it was too late. Both business and government started favoring consumption and short-term comfort and neglecting investment and long-term growth.
This hasn't been a case of government corrupting capitalism or vice versa. The two have worked hand-in-hand. The government has erected a welfare state that, as Matthew Continetti of The Weekly Standard has pointed out, spends vast amounts on consumption (Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, interest on the debt) and much less on investment (education, research, infrastructure), while pushing the costs on future generations. Meanwhile, the private sector has encouraged a huge increase in personal debt to fuel a consumption bubble. The geniuses flock to finance, not industry.
If we're going to reverse this tide, it might be useful to put the Achievement Test back at the center of politics. This would help focus the national mind on the fundamental challenge: moving from a consumption-dominated economy oriented around satisfying immediate needs toward a more balanced investment and consumption economy. It might also cut through the gridlocked trench warfare between big-government liberals and small-government conservatives.
Reframing the argument around achievement wouldn't end partisan division. Democrats and Republicans differ on what makes an economy productive. But it would allow for horse-trading.
As part of the budget process, Republicans could champion the things they believe will enhance productivity and mobility. Many of these will mean making sure people have the incentives to take risks and the freedom to adjust to foreign competition: a flatter, simpler tax code with lower corporate rates, a smaller debt burden, predictable regulations, affordable entitlements.
Democrats could champion the things they believe will enhance productivity and mobility. Many of these will mean making sure everybody has the tools to compete: early childhood education, infrastructure programs to create jobs, immigration policies that recruit talent, incentives for energy innovation.
The two agendas sit in tension, but they are not contradictory. The exciting thing about this moment is that everything is on the table. Thousands of policy proposals are floating around, thanks to the various deficit commissions and policy entrepreneurs. As the parties argue about the debt limit and the rest, it should be possible to take items from both and ram them into a package that cuts consumption spending in order to make investment spending more affordable.
How big will the resulting government be? That is a secondary issue. If a policy enhances achievement, we should be for that thing. If it displaces investment, we should be skeptical of it. Quality, not quantity, matters most.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); MEDICAID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



86 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Mocked as Uncool, the Minivan Rises Again

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Could driving a minivan, the ultimate embodiment of the suburban family vehicle, ever be considered cool?
The automakers are trying mightily to persuade us.
In marketing campaigns featuring heavy-metal theme songs, rapping parents, secret agents in cat masks, pyrotechnics and even Godzilla, minivan makers are trying to recast the much-ridiculed mom-mobile as something that parents can be proud -- or at least unashamed -- of driving.
Toyota led the effort early last spring with a campaign for its Sienna model that features a self-indulgent couple rapping about rolling through the cul-de-sacs with their posse of kids in their ''Swagger Wagon.''
''The stories we heard were, 'I just don't want to be seen in a minivan. I don't like being the soccer-mom joke or feeling like I've given up all trace of my identity to be a parent,' '' said Richard Bame, Toyota's national marketing manager for trucks and minivans. 
Other automakers have jumped on the theme, too. For example, in a series of ads that began this fall, Honda claims its 2011 Odyssey ''beckons like no van before.'' One spot deploys a song by the metal rockers Judas Priest to awe a grocery-toting father with the van's capabilities. In another, a couple seeking a romantic night out finds an Odyssey with rose petals spilling out of the sliding doors, chocolate-covered strawberries in a cooler compartment and a fire crackling on the rear-seat video screen.
Chrysler, which invented minivans in 1983, plans to offer a high-powered version of its 2011 Dodge Grand Caravan, aimed at fathers, which it has nicknamed the ''man van.''
And Ford Motor, which stopped making minivans in 2006, is jumping back into the game with the diminutive C-Max. The seven-passenger vehicle is about two feet shorter than the Odyssey and Sienna and offers high-tech features like sensors that allow drivers to open the rear liftgate simply by waving a leg under the bumper.
Ford calls the C-Max a compact ''people mover'' and hopes its European design will make the vehicle practical for families without the unflattering ''minivan'' label. ''Many are hard pressed to notice it has sliding doors. That wasn't by accident,'' said a Ford spokesman, Said Deep.
Having spent recent years making minivans more child-friendly through amenities like dual-screen entertainment systems and reconfigurable seating, the automakers are now focused on making them more appealing to adults, especially men, who have shied away from the vehicles and their connotations. Nearly every minivan sold in the United States has been redesigned in 2010 to offer flashier looks, more advanced technology and a sportier ride.
Making a minivan seem hip might be a stretch, but the new marketing efforts seem to be paying dividends, although the vehicles remain a small niche of the auto market.
The Toyota Sienna spots have become a Web sensation. The original ad drew more than 7.8 million views on YouTube, and the term ''swagger wagon'' -- coined by the actor playing the father, Brian Huskey -- has been adopted by some parents as a generic term for minivans.
Analysts credit the Toyota campaign with helping to increase sales of the Sienna by 18.5 percent through November -- double the industry average for minivans and a rare bright spot for Toyota, whose overall sales have been flat since bad publicity over product recalls.
Sales of the Honda Odyssey are up 42 percent since October, when the 2011 model and new ad campaigns were introduced.
Colin McGraw, who has three young daughters and is expecting a fourth child in March, bought a 2011 Odyssey after discovering that most crossovers, which provide the capacity of a sport utility vehicle or minivan but are generally smaller and have four hinged doors, offered less cargo space and lower fuel economy.
''Minivans just make more sense for families,'' said Mr. McGraw, a software consultant in Castle Rock, Colo. ''They're easier to get kids in and out of.''
At the Weymouth Honda dealership near Boston, the general manager, Jason Tobias, said the new Odyssey, with a bold new exterior that has been described as ugly in some reviews, has been gaining fans rapidly. Each one arrives on the lot already sold, and there is a waiting list for the top-end Touring Elite trim level, which sells for more than $40,000.
''With the new design, I think that it's changed a lot of people's opinions,'' Mr. Tobias said. ''So many people used to say, 'I'll never drive a minivan,' and then, guess what? It's called children.''
Chrysler just started shipping the updated versions of the Town & Country and Dodge Grand Caravan to dealers last month, but their sales rose even before that as Chrysler ramped up its advertising. One of the seemingly nonsensical -- and certainly nontraditional -- commercials showed suit-clad adults donning cat and mouse masks to prepare for a gang-style fight.
Minivans have a long way to go before coming even close to regaining the popularity they enjoyed a decade ago. They account for just 4 percent of all new-vehicle sales in the United States, compared with 20 percent for crossovers, according to Autodata, which tracks industry sales.
Automakers were on pace to sell about 450,000 minivans last year, a 9.3 percent increase from 2009 but far below the peak of 1.37 million in 2000. And the growth in minivan sales trails the overall domestic auto industry, which grew 11.1 percent through November.
Jack Nerad, editorial director at the Kelley Blue Book, which provides information about vehicles to consumers, said he thought the minivan segment was no longer shrinking. But whether it can grow again depends on how much the automakers can shed the stigma of vans.
''I don't think anybody can dispute the functionality of a minivan for a family,'' he said. ''They're not going to blow you away the way a coupe would, but in terms of what they do, they're pretty amazing.''
But Chris Cedergren, a partner with Iceology, an automotive marketing consultancy in Los Angeles, said the vehicle would remain a tough sell to shoppers, no matter how well it might suit their needs, because of the image problem.
''Minivans quickly became appliances, and no one wants a white washing machine or a white refrigerator,'' he said. ''They want something they feel proud of driving, and they don't want to be embarrassed.''
That's why Kristen Howerton, a marriage and family therapist in Costa Mesa, Calif., never wanted to own a minivan. She disliked them so much that she titled her popular parenting blog ''Rage Against the Minivan.''
''It's just a symbol of women becoming the invisible, exchangeable mom -- the soccer mom -- where we all look the same and no longer have a sense of what's cool,'' Mrs. Howerton said.
But last year, she and her husband found that going anywhere with four young children had become impossible. Many of her readers suggested the unthinkable.
After searching desperately for an alternative, Mrs. Howerton gave in and bought a Toyota Sienna. ''As much as I was opposed to it initially, it really has made life easier,'' she said. ''Mobility is more important than any standards I'm trying to uphold in my mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Colin McGraw and his wife, Jen, chose a Honda Odyssey for the ease of loading their daughters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 An advertisement from Honda for the 2011 Odyssey minivan strives for an aura of romance. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SUBURBS (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); PARENTING (78%); SOCCER (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (75%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (75%); F (NYSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



87 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Get Ready For a G.O.P. Rerun

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
You just can't close the door on this crowd. The party that brought us the worst economy since the Great Depression, that led us into Iraq and the worst foreign policy disaster in American history, that would like to take a hammer to Social Security and a chisel to Medicare, is back in control of the House of Representatives with the expressed mission of undermining all things Obama.
Once we had Dick Cheney telling us that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction and belligerently asserting that deficits don't matter. We had Phil Gramm, Enron's favorite senator and John McCain's economic guru, blithely assuring us in 2008 that we were suffering from a ''mental recession.'' 
(Mr. Gramm was some piece of work. A champion of deregulation, he was disdainful of ordinary people. ''We're the only nation in the world,'' he once said, ''where all of our poor people are fat.'')
Maybe the voters missed the entertainment value of the hard-hearted, compulsively destructive G.O.P. headliners. Maybe they viewed them the way audiences saw the larger-than-life villains in old-time melodramas. It must be something like that because it's awfully hard to miss the actual policies of a gang that almost wrecked the country.
In any event, the G.O.P. has taken its place once again as the House majority and is vowing to do what it does best, which is make somebody miserable -- in this case, President Obama. Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is now chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said recently on the Rush Limbaugh program that Mr. Obama was ''one of the most corrupt presidents in modern times.'' He backed off a little on Sunday, saying that what he really thinks is that Mr. Obama is presiding over ''one of the most corrupt administrations.''
This is the attitude of a man who has the power of subpoena and plans to conduct hundreds of hearings into the administration's activities.
The mantra for Mr. Issa and the rest of the newly empowered Republicans in the House, including the new Budget Committee chairman, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, is to cut spending and shrink government. But what's really coming are patented G.O.P. efforts to spread misery beyond Mr. Obama and the Democrats to ordinary Americans struggling in what are still very difficult times.
It was ever thus. The fundamental mission of the G.O.P. is to shovel ever more money to those who are already rich. That's why you got all that disgracefully phony rhetoric from Republicans about attacking budget deficits and embracing austerity while at the same time they were fighting like mad people to pile up the better part of a trillion dollars in new debt by extending the Bush tax cuts.
This is a party that has mastered the art of taking from the poor and the middle class and giving to the rich. We should at least be clear about this and stop being repeatedly hoodwinked -- like Charlie Brown trying to kick Lucy's football -- by G.O.P. claims of fiscal responsibility.
There's a reason the G.O.P. reveres Ronald Reagan and it's not because of his fiscal probity. As Garry Wills wrote in ''Reagan's America'':
''Reagan nearly tripled the deficit in his eight years, and never made a realistic proposal for cutting it. As the biographer Lou Cannon noted, it was unfair for critics to say that Reagan was trying to balance the budget on the backs of the poor, since 'he never seriously attempted to balance the budget at all.' ''
We'll see and hear a lot of populist foolishness from the Republicans as 2011 and 2012 unfold, but their underlying motivation is always the same. They are about making the rich richer. Thus it was not at all surprising to read on Politico that the new head of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Fred Upton of Michigan, had hired a former big-time lobbyist for the hospital and pharmaceuticals industries to oversee health care issues.
I remember President Bush going on television in September 2008, looking almost dazed as he said to the American people, ''Our entire economy is in danger.''
Have we forgotten already who put us in such grave peril? Republicans benefit from the fact that memories are short and statutes of limitations shorter. It was the Republican leader in the House, Tom DeLay, who insisted against all reason and all the evidence of history that ''nothing is more important in the face of war than cutting taxes.''
But that's all water under the bridge. The Republicans are back in control of the House, ready to run interference for the rich as recklessly and belligerently as ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HISTORY (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); SUBPOENAS (61%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (71%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); GREGORY C CASE (50%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



88 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Strained States Turning to Laws To Curb Unions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Faced with growing budget deficits and restive taxpayers, elected officials from Maine to Alabama, Ohio to Arizona, are pushing new legislation to limit the power of labor unions, particularly those representing government workers, in collective bargaining and politics.
State officials from both parties are wrestling with ways to curb the salaries and pensions of government employees, which typically make up a significant percentage of state budgets. On Wednesday, for example, New York's new Democratic governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, is expected to call for a one-year salary freeze for state workers, a move that would save $200 million to $400 million and challenge labor's traditional clout in Albany.
But in some cases -- mostly in states with Republican governors and Republican statehouse majorities -- officials are seeking more far-reaching, structural changes that would weaken the bargaining power and political influence of unions, including private sector ones.
For example, Republican lawmakers in Indiana, Maine, Missouri and seven other states plan to introduce legislation that would bar private sector unions from forcing workers they represent to pay dues or fees, reducing the flow of funds into union treasuries. In Ohio, the new Republican governor, following the precedent of many other states, wants to ban strikes by public school teachers. 
Some new governors, most notably Scott Walker of Wisconsin, are even threatening to take away government workers' right to form unions and bargain contracts.
''We can no longer live in a society where the public employees are the haves and taxpayers who foot the bills are the have-nots,'' Mr. Walker, a Republican, said in a speech. ''The bottom line is that we are going to look at every legal means we have to try to put that balance more on the side of taxpayers.''
Many of the proposals may never become law. But those that do are likely to reduce union influence in election campaigns, with reverberations for both parties.
In the 2010 elections, Republicans emerged with seven more governor's mansions and won control of the legislature in 26 states, up from 14. That swing has put unions more on the defensive than they have been in decades.
But it is not only Republicans who are seeking to rein in unions. In addition to Mr. Cuomo, California's new Democratic governor, Jerry Brown, is promising to review the benefits received by government workers in his state, which faces a more than $20 billion budget shortfall over the next 18 months.
''We will also have to look at our system of pensions and how to ensure that they are transparent and actuarially sound and fair -- fair to the workers and fair to the taxpayers,'' Mr. Brown said in his inaugural speech on Monday.
Many of the state officials pushing for union-related changes say they want to restore some balance, arguing that unions have become too powerful, skewing political campaigns with their large war chests and throwing state budgets off kilter with their expensive pension plans.
But labor leaders view these efforts as political retaliation by Republicans upset that unions recently spent more than $200 million to defeat Republican candidates.
''I see this as payback for the role we played in the 2010 elections,'' said Gerald W. McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the main union of state employees. Mr. McEntee said in October that his union was spending more than $90 million on the campaign, largely to help Democrats.
''Now there's a bull's-eye on our back, and they're out to inflict pain,'' he said.
In an internal memorandum, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. warned that in 16 states, Republican lawmakers would seek to starve public sector unions of money by requiring each government worker to ''opt in'' before that person's dues money could be used for political activities.
''In the long run, if these measures deprive unions of resources, it will cut them off at their knees. They'll melt away,'' said Charles E. Wilson, a law professor at Ohio State University.
Of all the new governors, John Kasich, Republican of Ohio, appears to be planning the most comprehensive assault against unions. He is proposing to take away the right of 14,000 state-financed child care and home care workers to unionize. He also wants to ban strikes by teachers, much the way some states bar strikes by the police and firefighters.
''If they want to strike, they should be fired,'' Mr. Kasich said in a speech. ''They've got good jobs, they've got high pay, they get good benefits, a great retirement. What are they striking for?''
Mr. Kasich also wants to eliminate a requirement that the state pay union-scale wages to construction workers on public contracts, even if the contractors are nonunion. In addition, he would like to ban the use of binding arbitration to settle disputes between the state and unions representing government employees.
Labor leaders, who argue that government employees are not overpaid, worry that many of these measures have a much better chance of enactment than in previous years because of Republican electoral gains and recession-ravaged taxpayers' reduced sympathy toward government workers.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s internal memo warned labor leaders, ''With the enormous losses in state legislatures around the country, we will face not only more attacks on working families and their unions -- we will face more serious attacks, particularly in the formerly blue or purple states that are now controlled by a Republican trifecta.''
It pointed in particular to six states, including several former union strongholds, where Republicans control the governor's mansion and both houses of the legislature: Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Naomi Walker, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of state government relations, said many voters would oppose the antiunion efforts. ''I think folks in these states are going to ask whether this is the right time to weaken unions when corporations are amassing more power than ever,'' she said. ''We've been fighting against privatizing Social Security and sending jobs offshore and to get the best deal for the unemployed. It would be a lot easier for Republicans if unions weren't there to throw up these roadblocks.''
Union leaders particularly dread the spread of right-to-work laws, which prevail in 22 states, almost all in the South or West. Under such laws, unions and employers cannot require workers to join a union or pay any dues or fees to unions to represent them.
Unions complain that such laws allow workers in unionized workplaces to reap the benefits of collective bargaining without paying for it. Pointing to lower wages in right-to-work states, unions say the laws lead to worse wages and benefits by weakening unions.
But lawmakers who are pushing right-to-work laws argue that they help attract investment. ''The folks who work day-to-day in economic development tell us that the No. 1 thing we can do to make Indiana more attractive to business is to make Indiana a right-to-work state,'' said Jerry Torr, an Indiana state representative who backs such legislation.
Some union leaders say that proposals like right-to-work laws, which have little effect on state budgets, show that Republicans are using budget woes as a pretext to undercut unions.
''They're throwing the kitchen sink at us,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. ''We're seeing people use the budget crisis to make every attempt to roll back workers' voices and any ability of workers to join collectively in any way whatsoever.''
A group composed of Republican state lawmakers and corporate executives, the American Legislative Exchange Council, is quietly spreading these proposals from state to state, sending e-mails about the latest efforts as well as suggested legislative language.
Michael Hough, director of the council's commerce task force, said the aim of these measures was not political, but to reduce labor's swollen power. ''Government budgets have grown and grown because of the cost of employees' pensions and salaries,'' he said. ''Now we have to deal with that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Walker, above, new Republican governor of Wisconsin, and Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICK GERSHON/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); POLITICS (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (75%); JERRY BROWN (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



89 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Sets Up A Huge Target For Budget Ax

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The incoming Republican majority in the House is moving to make good on its promise to cut $100 billion from domestic spending this year, a goal eagerly backed by conservatives but one carrying substantial political and economic risks.
House Republican leaders are so far not specifying which programs would bear the brunt of budget cutting, only what would escape it: spending for the military, domestic security and veterans. 
The reductions that would be required in the remaining federal programs, including education and transportation, would be so deep -- roughly 20 percent on average -- that Senate Republicans have not joined the $100 billion pledge that House Republicans, led by the incoming speaker, Representative John A. Boehner, made to voters before November's midterm elections.
Even if adopted by the House, the Republicans' budget is unlikely to be enacted in anything like the scale they envision, since Democrats retain a majority in the Senate and President Obama could veto annual appropriations bills making the reductions.
But the effort is more than symbolic: in particular it could give House Republicans increased leverage in budget negotiations with the White House this winter and spring, when the administration must get Congress to raise the federal debt limit or risk a government financing crisis.
The budget-cutting exercise is perhaps the biggest test facing the House Republicans as they seek to remain united and to keep faith with Tea Party members, many of whom remain suspicious of the party's willingness to vote for deep spending cuts.
But if Republicans vote for the size and range of required cuts in education, law enforcement, medical and scientific research, transportation and much more, it would give Democrats political ammunition to use against them in swing districts.
Such reductions are sure to draw protests from governors and local officials, including Republicans, who are counting on federal money to help balance their budgets. Many business and farm groups likewise would oppose cuts in their subsidies. And many economists would argue that immediate federal spending cuts of this size, especially on top of cuts and layoffs in the cities and states, would threaten the economy's recovery and offset any stimulus from the tax cut deal Republicans and Mr. Obama reached just weeks ago.
Yet conservative analysts say even more spending cuts are desirable. Brian Riedl of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization, has outlined a plan for $343 billion in reductions, including cuts from corporate tax breaks and entitlement programs that are not in the portion of the federal budget that House Republicans are focusing on, the so-called nonsecurity discretionary spending.
''The difficulty for Republicans is that they're concentrating their cuts in a small sliver of the budget,'' Mr. Riedl said. ''They should also be addressing large entitlement programs, such as Medicare and Social Security, which are the main source of our budget problems. Cutting $100 billion from these other programs isn't just a matter of eliminating waste, fraud and abuse. It will involve real cuts in real programs.''
Other Republicans are skeptical, as well.
''I just don't know how, when you get down to it, they're going to get agreement on that,'' said G. William Hoagland, who for many years was the Republican staff director of the Senate Budget Committee.
The promise to cut $100 billion this fiscal year -- in effect, taking government operations to 2008 levels -- would mean cuts of more than 20 percent across the board from the $477 billion that Congress allocated for such programs in the 2010 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30.
Such across-the-board cuts ''would have very damaging implications for the long-term growth of the economy and the long-term future of our work force,'' said Jacob J. Lew, Mr. Obama's budget director. He is preparing the administration's budget for the 2012 fiscal year, which would continue a three-year freeze of the same domestic spending at 2010 levels.
''If you look in areas like education, if it was applied across the board it would mean eight million students would have their Pell grants reduced by an average of $700,'' Mr. Lew said. ''You obviously could make policy not to do that, but then you'd have to save a lot of money somewhere else.''
A 20-percent cut also would mean 40,000 fewer teachers and school aides, he said, and big reductions in basic research, law enforcement and small business programs, among many others.
If the Republicans apply their promise literally, some programs would have to be scaled back even more because the government is already well into its fiscal year, so the cuts would have to be concentrated in a shorter period. The reductions would be about 30.6 percent, said James R. Horney, a former Congressional budget analyst who is now at the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
''That would require very large layoffs or furloughs of federal employees,'' Mr. Horney said, ''as well as big reductions in grants to state and local governments and government purchases of goods and services -- all of which would offset a good portion of the stimulus achieved in the tax compromise and threaten the recovery.''
In new rules that the House is expected to adopt when it convenes on Wednesday, Republicans will empower the incoming chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, to set limits for the various categories of domestic spending that are decided in the Appropriations Committee. That is more power than ever invested in a Budget Committee chief and a significant diminution in the appropriation panel's traditional sway.
Initially, that would allow House Republicans to suggest what general areas the $100 billion would come from without identifying specific cuts.
''The reality of governing is different than the reality of campaigning, and it's easier to throw out a number than it is to support it,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior strategist.
Looming over the budget fight is the battle over the debt limit. An increase in the debt limit is essential for the government to borrow to meet its obligations, but it is adamantly opposed by the Tea Party movement and other small-government conservatives.
While they complain that lifting the limit enables new spending, mostly it allows the government to cover existing commitments, including trillions of dollars run up when Republicans controlled Congress and the White House from 2001 to 2007.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative John A. Boehner, the incoming House speaker, led the pledge to cut $100 billion from domestic spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Paul D. Ryan will gain new powers over domestic spending as the chairman of the House Budget Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); VETO (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); MEDICARE (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



90 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Starts Year With Surge In Shares

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Eric Dash and Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks in the United States got 2011 off to an energetic start on Monday as financial shares rose and new data suggested a better outlook for the economy.
On the first day of trading of the year, the broader market reached its highest level since 2008, led by a gain of more than 2 percent in financial shares.
Bank of America was up more than 6 percent after it announced that it made a $1.34 billion net cash payment to Fannie Mae and one to Freddie Mac of $1.28 billion to buy back troubled mortgages on Dec. 31. In doing so, it tackled an issue overshadowing the markets. 
''These actions resolve substantial legacy issues in the best interest of our shareholders,'' the chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, said in a statement. ''Our goals remain the same: put these issues behind us, focus on serving customers and clients and continue to help distressed homeowners facing difficult times.''
Hartford Financial rose $1.28, or 4.83 percent, to $27.77 and Citigroup rose 17 cents, or 3.59 percent, to $4.90.
Telecommunications stocks were higher, with Sprint Nextel up 28 cents to close at $4.51, a gain of more than 6 percent. Consumer discretionary stocks also made strong gains.
The three sectors rose shortly after the market opened and held their gains as new economic figures were released, showing stronger performances in manufacturing and construction.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 93.24 points, or 0.81 percent, to 11,670.75. The previous high was on Dec. 29, 2010, at 11,585.4.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 14.25 points, or 1.13 percent, to 1,271.89, the highest close since 1,274.98 on Sept. 3, 2008. The previous high was also on Dec. 29, when it closed at 1,259.78, when it was the highest since Sept. 8, 2008.
The Nasdaq was up by 38.65 points, or 1.46 percent, at 2,691.52.
''We are in a bull market for sure,'' said John Lekas, senior portfolio manager, for Leader Capital. He said the market was unlikely to slow, given that some investors, such as small retail investors, were latecomers hesitant about the economic data.
''A lot of people were looking at higher unemployment, and saying 'I don't believe the rally,' '' he said. But he contended domestic economic data had less to do with the current market than the success that American companies were having overseas.
''The fundamentals in the U.S. are disconnected from the equity market, and the reason is the predominance of earnings growth is coming from overseas and not from the U.S. anymore,'' he said.
The Institute for Supply Management said that its index of national factory activity expanded in December for a 17th consecutive month. The index rose to 57 in December, from 56.6 in November. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
American manufacturers that exported goods, and companies in sectors such as automobiles and food, benefited from growth, although industries related to housing continued to struggle.
The results Monday were in line with forecasts by analysts, who consider manufacturing crucial to a recovery. They say it also offers clues on how businesses are rebuilding inventories, and on employment, new orders and consumer demand.
''All in all, the nation's factories appear to be facing a bright outlook in 2011,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc.
The Institute for Supply Management report said businesses representing 11 of 18 manufacturing sectors reported growth in December, including those in apparel, leather and related products, metals, machinery, and computers and electronics. Contractions were reported in minerals, paper, printing and miscellaneous manufacturing industries.
Strong readings in new orders and production are expected to create momentum in the first quarter of 2011, said Norbert J. Ore, the chairman of the association's survey committee.
The institute's index for new orders grew to 60.9 in December from 56.6 in November, while production rose to 60.7 from 55. At the same time, inventories grew more slowly, indicating that the increase in output was not just piling up in stockrooms.
Employment, however, contracted to 55.7 in December from 57.5 in November.
American manufacturers were benefiting from changes in world markets. Global demand, especially in Europe and Asia, and a weaker dollar helped American exporters, while Asian manufacturing growth put upward pressure on commodity prices that was reflected in higher producer prices in the United States, said Daniel J. Meckstroth, the chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. A Commerce Department report showed construction spending hit a five-month high in November. It indicated construction spending increased 0.4 percent to an annual rate of $810.2 billion, the highest level since June, after rising by an unrevised 0.7 percent in October. The November increase in construction outlays was the third straight month of gains.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast a gain of 0.2 percent in November.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 10/32, to 94 3/32. The yield rose to 3.33 percent Monday, from 3.29 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spending on construction, like a project in Silver Spring, Md., hit a five-month high in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); S (NYSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



91 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: First Flight Out, for a Fee: A Blizzard Postscript

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Blizzard, and Inflexibility, Knock Out Air Travel,'' by Joe Sharkey (On the Road column, Business Day, Dec. 28): 
As airlines adjust to a new economic environment by reducing capacity and flying with fuller planes, empty seats have become virtually nonexistent on domestic flights. Add the new regulations about delays on the tarmac, which have led to flight cancellations, and it can take days for those inconvenienced to resume their travel.
New regulations, however, inspire new products. Airlines should make available, for a fee, a ''warrant'' attached to a ticket that would carry ''senior'' or ''subordinate'' status -- like corporate bonds. People with the costlier ''senior'' warrant could jump the line for a seat on the earliest flight out once travel resumes; those with a ''subordinate'' warrant would receive compensation for being bumped.
The price of warrants could be market-determined, and they could trade in a secondary market. Let travelers themselves put a price on the value of their time.
Ira Sohn Upper Montclair, N.J., Dec. 28, 2010
The writer is a professor of economics and finance, Montclair State University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



92 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: China Ready To Reprocess Nuclear Fuel

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- Chinese scientists have mastered the technology for reprocessing fuel from nuclear power plants, potentially increasing the supply of carbon-free electricity to keep the country's economy booming, state television reported Monday. 
The new technology will extend by many times the amount of power that can be generated from China's nuclear plants as fissile and fertile materials are recovered to provide new fuel, said the state television network, CCTV.
Russia, India, Japan and several European countries already reprocess nuclear fuel -- the material used to produce energy from nuclear reactors -- to separate and recover the unused uranium and plutonium, as well as to reduce waste and safely close the nuclear cycle.
The CCTV report gave no details on whether or when China would begin reprocessing using the new technology on an industrial scale.
China overtook the United States as the world's largest energy consumer in 2009, years before it was expected to do so, according to the International Energy Agency, which is based in Paris.
But China is heavily dependent on coal, a major pollutant. The nation has 13 nuclear power plants in use and has ambitious plans to add potentially hundreds more.
Reprocessing nuclear fuel costs significantly more than using the fuel once and storing it as waste. It also raises potential questions, because extracted plutonium can be used to make nuclear weapons, although China has long had a nuclear arsenal.
The commercial reprocessing of plutonium was halted in the United States decades ago by President Jimmy Carter because of concerns about nuclear proliferation. President George W. Bush proposed a resumption, but the National Research Council found it to be not economically justifiable. President Obama scrapped the Bush proposal.
Wang Junfeng, project director for the state-run China National Nuclear Corporation, told CCTV the Chinese scientists had employed a chemical process that was effective and safe. CCTV said the country now had enough fuel to last up to 70 years and the new technology could yield enough to last for 3,000 years.
CCTV says the details of the process the Chinese scientists developed after 20 years' work are being kept secret.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (94%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL NUCLEAR CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (65%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



93 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: The Great Oil Gamble

 BODY:
To the Editor:
John Tierney's column ''Economic Optimism? Yes, I'll Take That Bet'' (Findings, Dec. 28) does a disservice with its explanation of why he won a bet with the investment banker Matthew R. Simmons over the price of oil. 
Although Mr. Tierney is correct that oil did not average $200 a barrel in 2010 (as Mr. Simmons had predicted five years earlier), pricing is a secondary issue. His column obscures the fundamental point -- that we are in the first stage of a relentless decline in total oil supply.
He asserts that ''the overall energy situation today looks a lot like a Cornucopian feast,'' but his examples support the opposite conclusion. The energy required to extract energy from tar sands and offshore deposits yields much less return on investment than the bounty of the early oil years, when the stage was set for our highly interconnected global economy, fully dependent on oil.
Phyllis Sladek
Santa Barbara, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); OIL SANDS (87%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



94 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Chief Says Fiat May Try to Add to Stake in Chrysler Before a Public Offering

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said Monday that it might seek to raise its stake in Chrysler Group to 51 percent before Chrysler's initial public offering, which is planned for this year.
''If Chrysler is listed this year, we should think about speeding up the option of increasing our stake in Chrysler,'' Reuters quoted Mr. Marchionne as saying at the Milan stock exchange. But he said Fiat, the Italian automaker, was not planning ''today'' to merge the two companies.
Mr. Marchionne was speaking as Fiat Industrial and the Fiat auto business made their trading debuts as separate entities. The move freed Mr. Marchionne to seek greater integration with Chrysler or find partners to reach his goal of creating a globally competitive automaker. 
Analysts have cheered the decision to separate Fiat S.p.A. (a joint-stock company), as the auto unit is formally known, from Fiat Industrial S.p.A., which includes Iveco trucks and CNH Global agricultural machinery, arguing that the value of the parts is greater than that of the whole. The two businesses, based in Turin, were formally separated on Jan. 1.
Shares of the newly liberated businesses traded Monday in line with analysts' expectations. The auto unit closed at 7.03 euros a share, giving the company a market value of 8.6 billion euros, or $11.5 billion. Fiat Industrial closed at 9 euros on its first day, giving it a market value of 11 billion euros. The combined market value of 19.6 billion euros was about 3.1 percent more than the capitalization before the split.
Mr. Marchionne is chief executive of Chrysler by virtue of the 20 percent stake Fiat acquired last year, with the blessing of the United States government, to help Chrysler out of bankruptcy. Fiat's deal with the Obama administration gives the Italian automaker the option to raise its stake in Chrysler to 51 percent.
Fiat had previously said it expected to raise its stake to 35 percent by the end of the year. To reach that level, Fiat needs to meet several performance goals, including the American production of a Fiat-based small engine, sales of $1.5 billion outside North America, an increase in Latin American sales, and a commitment to assemble a Fiat-based car in the United States that gets at least 40 miles to the gallon.
Fiat has the option to obtain an additional 16 percent once the American and Canadian governments are repaid the $7.4 billion they lent Chrysler. Because those loans carry interest rates of 14 percent to 20 percent, the incentive to repay them as soon as possible is strong.
''If they're convinced they can turn around the situation at Chrysler, it makes a lot of sense to take the additional 16 percent,'' Thierry Huon, an analyst at Exane BNP in Paris, said. ''If Chrysler does recover, then they'll have been able to get that stake at a lower valuation than they would have to pay after an I.P.O.''
''But you have to first believe in the Chrysler recovery,'' Mr. Huon said. ''And that will hinge on its ability to return to the passenger car business'' and reduce its heavy reliance on the light-truck segment, he said.
General Motors' successful I.P.O. in November has raised hopes that Chrysler can return to the market this year.
Ford Motor, which avoided a bailout, and G.M. have rebounded strongly from the depths of the financial crisis, in part because of overseas businesses. Chrysler, of Auburn Hills, Mich., has not turned a net profit in years, but it posted $239 million of operating profit for the third quarter of 2010, helped by sales of a new Jeep Grand Cherokee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fiat's chief, Sergio Marchionne, center, at the Milan stock exchange Monday as Fiat Industrial and Fiat's auto business made trading debuts as separate entities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EURO (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (74%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); FIAT INDUSTRIAL SPA (84%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (94%); F (BIT) (94%); FI (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



95 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Brown Returns as California Governor, Facing Some Familiar Challenges

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- Jerry Brown began his return engagement as governor of California on Monday, using his inaugural address to call for an end to partisan battling that he said was paralyzing the state and to promise, in what is presumably the last chapter of his public life, to lead California out of one of the toughest budget crises of its history.
''Choices have to be made, and difficult decisions taken,'' Mr. Brown declared to an audience that included two former governors and hundreds of state legislators. ''At this stage of my life, I have not come here to embrace delay and denial.'' 
At times jocular, at times earnest, Mr. Brown noted -- indeed celebrated -- his longevity in California politics, a depth of experience that in no small part accounted for his victory in November as voters in so much of the rest of the country were turning to outsiders. At 72, Mr. Brown is returning for a third term as governor, a position also held by his father, offering a West Coast echo of what took place in Albany on Sunday with the swearing-in of Andrew M. Cuomo as governor of New York.
''For me, this day is also special because I get to follow in my father's footsteps once again, and, 36 years after my first inauguration as governor, even follow in my own,'' Mr. Brown said.
In contrast to his first inaugural speech -- where he called for a 7 percent cut in the size of his office staff -- Mr. Brown did not offer many specifics for how he intended to deal with a state budget shortfall that is now projected at $28.5 billion over 18 months. But he has made clear that his solution, in a budget due Jan. 10, will call for deep cuts in state spending, and his aides have said it is also likely to include a request that voters extend tax surcharges scheduled to expire this year.
More than that, Mr. Brown -- who has had a history of being something of a political iconoclast and who has always been drawn to populist themes and language -- offered a clear rebuke to political leaders from both parties who have been enmeshed in what have, at times, seemed interminable and irresolvable political battles. This year, the Legislature adopted a budget 100 days late, setting a record.
''In the face of huge budget deficits year after year and the worst credit rating among the 50 states, our two political parties can't come close to agreeing on the right path forward,'' the new governor said, as the lawmakers in his audience sat in still silence. ''They remain in their respective comfort zones, rehearsing and rehashing old political positions.''
''Perhaps this is why the public holds the state government in low esteem,''' he said, adding, ''Without the trust of the people, politics degenerates into mere spectacle and democracy declines, leaving demagoguery and cynicism to fill the void.''
Mr. Brown looks far different than he did 36 years ago -- what hair he has left has turned gray, as his audience was reminded with a slide show that included pictures from his first round as governor -- and he is moving at a slightly slower pace.
And many of the people who were here for his first inaugural are gone, including his father, Edmund G. Brown Sr., who died in 1996. The crowd on Monday included two other former governors -- Gray Davis, a Democrat, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, to whom Mr. Brown paid a particularly warm tribute. (Mr. Schwarzenegger declined to endorse the Republican nominee for governor, Meg Whitman, in what was widely seen here as a tacit endorsement of Mr. Brown.)
But there were some striking similarities between Mr. Brown's two inaugurations. Then, as now, California was coming out of a tough recession. One of the main themes of Mr. Brown's first speech was how to deal with joblessness. The unemployment rate in January 1975 was 9.4 percent; it is now 12.4 percent.
In 1975, he was succeeding a Republican governor who was a former actor -- Ronald Reagan; this time, it was Mr. Schwarzenegger, also a former actor. He also presented himself at that time as fiscally conservative and prepared to make cuts in state spending, as he did to a certain extent on Monday.
That said, Mr. Brown spoke for 16 minutes Monday -- far longer than the seven minutes at his first inaugural. And as grave as things might seem fiscally, he appeared in good humor. At the swearing-in, when the chief justice of the California Supreme Court, Tani Cantil-Sakauye, asked him to attest that he was taking the position without mental reservation, Mr. Brown paused and the audience laughed.
''Really, no mental reservation,'' he said.
Mr. Brown has kept a decidedly low profile since his election, making only two significant public appearances and only two appointments. He is now moving into a period where he is to begin spelling out some of those painful choices he has talked about.
On this day, at least, Mr. Brown seemed intent on not making any enemies, promising to impose tough cuts without detailing exactly what may lay ahead, well aware that cuts in programs, or proposed tax increases, would threaten to squander whatever support he enjoys now.
For example, for all the talk of budget tightening, he said the state needed to do something to take care of public schools that have been battered by years of cuts, a deep concern of Californians.
''Our budget problem is dire, but after years of cutbacks, I am determined to enhance our public schools so our citizens of the future have the skills, the zest and the character to keep California up among the best,'' he said.
He made only elliptical reference to what could be one of his big challenges, should he choose to engage: pushing unions to agree to reductions in pensions and other benefits.
''We will also have to look at our system of pensions and how to ensure that they are transparent and actuarially sound and fair -- fair to the workers and fair to the taxpayers,'' he said.
Yet if there was one dominant theme, it was of a child of California returning to the job he once had with no ambition beyond another term in Sacramento.
Or two more terms. At one point, he introduced his aunt, Connie Carlson. He told his audience that she was 99 and waited for the applause to subside.
''By the way, those of you hankering after my job?'' he said. ''It may be a while. Relax.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Jerry Brown, top, with his wife, Anne Gust Brown, was sworn in on Monday. Attending were former Govs. Gray Davis, right, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, with his wife, Maria Shriver. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (93%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



96 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: 5-11 Again, Browns Cut Ties To Mangini

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Remember when everyone thought N.F.L. coaches would not be fired this season because team owners would not want to absorb the dismissed coach's contract while paying a new coach with a lockout looming?
Never try to predict the decisions of wealthy men with little patience. With five coaches fired before the season even ended, the first Monday of the postseason began with news that Cleveland had dismissed Eric Mangini after two 5-11 seasons. Mangini's firing was not a surprise because he was not hired by the Browns' president, Mike Holmgren, who is completing his first year on the job. But Mangini has two years remaining on a contract that pays him a reported annual average salary of $3.9 million.
In a news conference, Holmgren did not eliminate the possibility that he could return to the sideline, where he built his legend in Green Bay and in Seattle. 
''My goal is to find exactly the right person to eventually lead us to the championship,'' Holmgren said. ''I was hired to be the president of the Cleveland Browns. I think this year, I've grown into the job. Having said that, I am also a coach and will always be a coach.''
Mangini, who was hired by the Browns just days after he was fired by the Jets two years ago, joined a coaching unemployment line that included Wade Phillips (Dallas), Brad Childress (Minnesota), Josh McDaniels (Denver), Mike Singletary (San Francisco) and John Fox (Carolina), all of whom were sent packing before the season ended. On Monday, the Vikings announced that Leslie Frazier, who took over when Childress was fired with six games remaining, would become the permanent coach after the Vikings went 3-3 with him in charge.
The Cowboys are expected to make the same move with their interim head coach, Jason Garrett. And Fox is highly regarded and could quickly land another head-coaching job, perhaps in Cleveland. But the process could take much longer in Denver, which is expected first to install the legendary quarterback John Elway into the front office and then let him help choose the next coach. Elway could pursue Stanford Coach Jim Harbaugh, who is expected to be sought by several teams.
N.F.L. STATES CASE TO FANS With the regular season over and the clock ticking on the expiring collective bargaining agreement, the N.F.L. sent an e-mail to its fans, laying out management's position in the labor talks.
The message, sent to about five million fans in its data base -- and also distributed to teams so they could distribute it -- mentions proposals for the 18-game season (and cutbacks in off-season workout programs) and for a rookie wage scale.
The e-mail offers no new information on the labor talks. But as the end of the season nears, more attention will be paid to the threat of a lockout, and the N.F.L. is clearly making a pitch for fan support in what is likely to be a long, bruising negotiation.
''The N.F.L. is great because fans care deeply about it,'' the note, signed by Commissioner Roger Goodell, said. ''Economic conditions, however, have changed dramatically inside and outside the N.F.L. since 2006 when we negotiated the last C.B.A.''
The N.F.L. had about $8 billion in revenue last year.
Goodell also talked about the move to player safety, and said some of the ''outrageous sums'' paid to rookies would be diverted to veterans and retired players.
The union declined to comment on the letter specifically, but it has taken issue with the league's contention that the troubled economy has hurt the league's operations.
KUBIAK AND DEL RIO SAFE The Houston Texans are sticking with Coach Gary Kubiak despite another lackluster year that ended without a playoff berth.
But the team made wholesale defensive staff changes, firing the coordinator Frank Bush, the secondary coach David Gibbs, the linebackers coach Johnny Holland and the assistant linebackers coach Robert Saleh.
Jacksonville also said it would retain its coach, Jack Del Rio, despite the Jaguars' late-season slide, in which they squandered a chance to clinch the A.F.C. South.(AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); ATHLETES (67%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (66%); SPORTS (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (54%); DENVER BRONCOS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



97 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Decorum in Albany? Don't Count on It

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
(1) Propriety and good taste in behavior, dress, etc.; (2) an act or requirement of polite behavior.
Those are the definitions of ''decorum'' offered by Webster's New World College Dictionary. It is not a word routinely heard in the rough and tumble of New York politics. If this newspaper's electronic files are a guide, no New York governor in the last 30 years invoked ''decorum'' as a required element of conduct for the state's dominant political players.
That is, until Saturday, in the inauguration speech delivered by Andrew M. Cuomo, the state's 56th governor and the son of No. 52. Pledging to ''rebuild this government,'' Mr. Cuomo listed decorum among many things he said needed to be restored, including professionalism, respect and collegiality. 
It was an interesting choice of a word. Goodness knows a zillion decisions need to be made, and soon, on difficult matters of substance like taxation, balancing the budget, controlling pension costs, stimulating the economy and slicing away government fat. But Mr. Cuomo got it right. None of those problems are likely to be resolved without a modicum of propriety and good taste in behavior -- decorum -- at the highest reaches of state government.
The depths to which Albany has sunk in the last few years ought not be forgotten.
So many elected officials turned out to be pinstriped criminals that they could practically field full baseball teams, designated hitters included, in the exercise yard at Attica. Largely as the result of men behaving badly and forced to leave office, 2010 ended with four of the six statewide elective positions filled by politicians who were not the people's choices. Generally speaking, it's not good to be a contender for the title of state with the most dysfunctional political system.
As one of his first acts as governor, Mr. Cuomo ordered senior members of his administration to undergo ethics training. It's probably not a bad idea, though the essential lesson is fairly basic and should have already occurred to these officials: Don't steal. The rest, as the many lawyers among them might say, is dictum.
Of course, all new chief executives pledge to be agents of change, to foster transparency, to reach across the political aisle, to take on powerful interests, to pursue a bold agenda, yada yada yada. In his speech, Mr. Cuomo was no exception.
Still, he hit grace notes that were conspicuously absent at the inauguration of the last elected governor, Eliot Spitzer. With his immediate predecessor, George E. Pataki, in the audience, Mr. Spitzer went out of his way to be churlish. The state on Mr. Pataki's watch was like Rip Van Winkle, he said; it ''slept through much of the past decade.'' By contrast, Mr. Cuomo tossed huzzahs at his beleaguered and often self-wounding predecessor, David A. Paterson.
Whether the new governor can maintain that lofty tone is a question.
He is not without his own capacity for delivering kidney punches, as when he dismissed Mr. Pataki in 2002 as having been a valet to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in the aftermath of 9/11. Or when he had hired hands verbally rough up his wife, Kerry Kennedy, as their marriage fell apart in 2003.
Publicly anyway, Mr. Cuomo has learned to keep these baser impulses in check. During the recent campaign, he came across as St. Francis compared with his loutish main opponent, Carl P. Paladino -- not that this was hard to do.
Mr. Paladino, however, was a rank political amateur. Mr. Cuomo now goes up against a real pro, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker. Getting back to dictionaries, if you look up the word ''opacity'' in some of them, you may well find Mr. Silver's name.
On Saturday, Mr. Cuomo spoke wistfully of an era, 30 years ago, when his father, Mario M. Cuomo, was lieutenant governor, Hugh L. Carey was governor, Stanley Fink was Assembly speaker and Warren M. Anderson was the Senate majority leader. He made it sound like the Age of Pericles.
By contrast to today, perhaps it was. But only by contrast. The men mentioned by Andrew Cuomo were running the Albany show when a New York Times editorial had this to say on June 11, 1980:
''Never, in the closing days of its annual session, is the New York State Legislature a model of decorum, wisdom or judgment. All past absurdity pales, however, beside 1980's version of state government.''
Sometimes things change. Sometimes they don't.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, speaking at his inauguration on Saturday, said he wanted to restore better conduct to the government of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BASEBALL (75%); BUDGETS (67%); LAWYERS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



98 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Real Estate Market Continues Steady Growth, as Luxury Sales Perk Up

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
The 2010 real estate market in Manhattan will be remembered for slow but steady growth, with luxury sales of $3 million and up finally making a strong return in the final months of the year, according to fourth-quarter market reports to be released on Tuesday.
The steadiness in the market was welcome news for brokers who had spent at least part of last year concerned about a possible double dip in prices. 
The median fourth-quarter sales prices, in separate reports compiled by the city's biggest brokerages and by the real estate Web site Streeteasy.com, ranged from $825,000 to $845,000. Those prices represent increases of 3 percent to 11 percent from the same period in 2009. But average sales prices, which were more affected by the increase in higher-end sales, ranged from $1.37 million to $1.48 million, as much as 14.4 percent higher than last year's prices.
The prices are still far from the peak of the market in 2008, when the median was close to $1 million and the average over $1.7 million, but they are also up from the bottom of the market, in mid- to late 2009, when the median hovered around $800,000 and the average dipped below $1.3 million.
''The year started out strong and remained really solid, despite some slight bumps along the way,'' said Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property. In 2009 and early 2010, homebuyer tax credits pushed up sales of studios and one-bedroom apartments. Overall volume slowed significantly during the summer, only to return to more typical levels later in the year.
''Now things are selling across the board at all price points,'' Ms. Ramirez said, ''and we're finally seeing a more normal market.''
In the luxury market, the number of sales of $10 million or more peaked at 55 in the first quarter of 2008, dwindled to 18 in the last quarter of 2009, but grew to 25 in both the third and fourth quarters of 2010, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Prudential Douglas Elliman's report. ''The levels we're seeing now are at the high side for the last two years,'' he said.
Sophia Song, vice president for research at Streeteasy.com, said, ''It was clearly the luxury market that was driving the overall market in the fourth quarter of 2010.'' The number of co-op and condominium sales for $3 million or more went to 180 in the last quarter of 2010, from 132 in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of more than 36 percent.
Hall Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that his agency started to see a resurgence in sales of more than $10 million starting in September, but that in the last quarter ''many more'' homes went into contract for more than $10 million, including several for over $20 million.
For Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group, there is no surer sign of pent-up luxury demand than 419-421 Broome Street, the building where the actor Heath Ledger was found dead in 2008 of an accidental overdose in a full-floor apartment he rented. The building was converted to a five-unit condominium that went on the market in late November.
''Four of the apartments sold in seven days for between $3.9 million and $5 million, and they all had bidding wars,'' Ms. Liebman said. Buyers see that prices are flat and are finally ready to buy, so, she said, ''We feel like the wind is at our back now.''
Looking ahead, Dottie Herman, the chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that with unemployment rates still high and credit markets still tight, ''I think we're going to see a consistent and steady market that's price sensitive and moving sideways more than anything else.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); SALES FIGURES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (64%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (52%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



99 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by Confidence, Deal Makers Pulled Out Their Checkbooks in 2010

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and JEFFREY CANE

 BODY:
The most significant development in mergers and acquisitions in 2010 may be not what actually happened but what deal makers think happened - a return of confidence.
That sometimes fickle state of mind encouraged the first annual gain in deal-making worldwide since the financial crisis. Global dollar volume in announced mergers and acquisitions rose 23.1 percent in 2010, to $2.4 trillion, according to Thomson Reuters data. In the United States, merger volume rose 14.2 percent, to $822 billion.
Still, merger activity is far off the peak of 2007, and no one expects a return to exuberant deal-making anytime soon. 
''I think that this is not an environment for excessive risk-taking,'' said Robert E. Spatt, a partner with the Wall Street law firm Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett. ''But we're out of the bunker, and there's a lot of stuff in the pipeline.''
Gordon Dyal, the global head of mergers and acquisitions at Goldman Sachs, agreed. ''We don't expect to see a dramatic upswing, but looking at our backlog, we see continued, steady growth,'' he said.
Reasons for the renewed optimism include continued cheap credit, huge piles of corporate cash and gains in the United States stock market. Private equity firms are under pressure to use their buyout money and to find exits from investments in their existing portfolios. And a number of companies that cut costs throughout the downturn are discovering that acquisitions may be their only option for growth when confronted with a stubbornly slow recovery.
Some of those factors were also in place a year ago. But a number of headline-popping deals this past summer - the Australian mining giant BHP Billiton's ultimately unsuccessful $38.6 billion pursuit of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan and the furious bidding war for 3Par among them - emboldened decision makers, overcoming worries over Europe's debt crisis and doubts about the United States economy. Such ambitious deals in the last half of 2010 showed that companies were finally ready to pull the trigger on acquisitions.
''We are seeing a new breed of preparedness among corporates,'' Richard Jeanneret of Ernst & Young's transaction advisory services noted in the accounting firm's year-end mergers and acquisitions survey. ''It's a function of sitting on the sidelines for so long, patiently watching the market, knowing where the values lie and having access to cash and credit. There is a lot of pent-up demand.''
An early sign of returning corporate confidence is a rise in unsolicited bids, which totaled 8 percent of the global merger market in 2010, Ernst & Young said.
Another sign of optimism is the rise in premiums being offered for publicly traded companies. With the major United States market measures just returning to what their levels were before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many companies' stocks are seen as offering relative bargains, with suitors willing to pay substantially more than the current market value. The industry that received the highest premiums in 2010 was the one most battered during the crisis - financials, which had an average premium of 55 percent on offers in 2010, according to Thomson Reuters data.
Still, executives and boards that are planning acquisitions will have to clear a high hurdle, bankers say.
''To be successful, acquisitions have had to be strategic, earnings-growth positive and easily understood by shareholders,'' said Jeffrey Kaplan, global head of mergers and acquisitions at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. ''That's one reason why we're not seeing the velocity of deals that we saw in 2006 and 2007.''
In the United States, energy and power was the dominant sector for deal-making, more than doubling its market share to 28.1 percent in 2010 from 12.5 percent in the previous year, according to the Thomson Reuters data. A desire to expand in natural gas, especially in the coveted Marcellus Shale region in the eastern United States, drove a number of deals, including Chevron's $3.2 billion acquisition of Atlas Energy. And a $4.4 billion management-led buyout of the natural gas producer Exco Resources was among the biggest buyouts of the year.
One of the most volatile takeover battles of the year centered on the debt-laden power producer Dynegy. Shareholders, led by Carl C. Icahn and Seneca Capital, thwarted a $4.7 billion buyout offer in November by the Blackstone Group. Mr. Icahn made his own offer for the company the following month - a bid that Seneca now also opposes.
Health care was the second-biggest sector of deal activity in the United States, which was underscored by the last significant announced deal of the year: the $1.25 billion acquisition of the Medicare Part D business of Universal American by CVS Caremark that was announced on Friday.
Some of the consolidation in health care is being prompted by the changes expected under the Obama administration's overhaul of the system. Community Health Systems' $3.3 billion unsolicited offer for a smaller hospital chain rival, Tenet Healthcare, is largely seen as a push for scale by 2014, when regulatory changes will increase the number of paying patients.
The United States accounts for 34 percent of global deal volume. But one of the biggest themes in mergers and acquisitions in 2010 was the growth in emerging markets. In the Asia-Pacific region, deal volume jumped 43.5 percent, according to Thomson Reuters.
''This has clearly been an inflection point for East meets West,'' said Paul Parker, head of global mergers and acquisitions at Barclays Capital. ''Emerging markets have surged and really accounted for growth in M.&A. this year.''
Mr. Dyal of Goldman Sachs said: ''Our clients are definitely taking a global perspective, and I've yet to meet a client who says, 'I want to look at deals only in one region.'''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Rising Premiums: The premium for publicly traded companies, shown here, is how much more the deal is valued at when announced compared with the company's market value four weeks earlier. (Source: Thomson Reuters)
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS
TOP FINANCIAL ADVISERS
 TOP LEGAL ADVISERS (Source: Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (91%); MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); MINES & MINING (63%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (83%); BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (65%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); POT (TSX) (65%); POT (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (65%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (65%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



100 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Before Move-In Day, Evicting the Old Auras

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Ziporah Reich sat cross-legged on her living room floor. As Judith Wendell chanted and burned incense that seeped into every crevice of the apartment, Ms. Reich meditated over an altar that included bowls of water with candles and wildflowers and a stack of brightly colored papers on which she wrote her wishes: finding her soul mate, starting a family and having more success in her career.
''I want to bring a positive energy that's not tied to anything specific and also get rid of the energy of the previous owner,'' Ms. Reich said. 
Ms. Reich is a well-traveled 38-year-old lawyer. Ms. Wendell is a well-traveled 59-year-old feng shui expert, whose talents include the process of smudging.
The New York real estate industry has been a job machine for thousands of brokers, lawyers, managers, architects, engineers and tradesmen. But since worries about the future or negative vibes from the past are two things New Yorkers cannot complain to management about, a very tiny industry of smudgers -- or ''space clearers,'' the term Ms. Wendell prefers -- has evolved to fill these needs.
Smudging, predictably, is a vastly unregulated world with little organization. It can include a real estate broker adopting the Native American tradition of burning sage in an apartment in preparation for the first open house. It can also extend to include the afternoon-long space clearings that Ms. Wendell does with clients, for which she charges $900 to $1,800. Ms. Wendell said that her fees were driven less by apartment size than by ''what's in the space energetically.''
Ms. Reich said she had always been interested in good-luck rituals. While growing up in Brooklyn, she watched how neighbors and friends brought bread and salt as housewarming gifts, a tradition among Jews, Russians and others. While living in Japan, she noticed that car dealers blessed cars before buyers started driving them.
She also wanted to wipe out memories of the delays and construction problems she had experienced while renovating her compact one-bedroom apartment on West 105th Street. Even though she closed more than a year ago, she moved in only recently and still has most of the furniture in storage.
''I definitely think things could have gone smoother,'' she said. ''I feel like I could have better luck.''
That is why she hired Ms. Wendell. The self-described ''child of the '70s'' grew up in a Jewish family in Bayside and discovered spirituality, she said, while living in San Francisco. She calls her influences as varied as the Maharishi's visit to the United States and a 1995 trip to Bali and Borneo. She also has professional training in feng shui and design.
Ms. Wendell said that although she expected her business to drop in the recession, it actually rose because people wanted to improve the feelings in their current homes, or the homes they were moving into that perhaps people had given up.
''I thought my business would go down because it's not a necessity what I do,'' Ms. Wendell said. ''But when people are trying to create some security for themselves, this is one way to do it. This is part of their lives they have control over.''
In 2008, Barbara Wagner, a real estate publicist, and her husband, Steve, a lawyer, hired Ms. Wendell when they took possession of an apartment they had been renting to an aunt who died there. They wanted to remove any lingering aura from her death.
They were renovating, but they were on a budget and economized by using Ikea cabinets in the kitchen so they would have enough left over for the smudging.
But Ms. Wagner said it was worth it to spend the money on her hopes for the future.
''A lot of it really may be in my head,'' Ms. Wagner said. ''But it was a good start to an apartment we had known for years.''
Carolyn Zweben, a Prudential Douglas Elliman broker, has been a do-it-yourself smudger since 2004, casting out negative vibes from apartments she was trying to sell.
In particular, she said, buyers could sense the tension when there had been a divorce in the apartment.
While science has yet to get around to evaluating the effectiveness of smudging, Ms. Zweben, who says she knows other brokers who smudge, can offer anecdotes like this one: One woman hired her to sell her apartment because she was disappointed she had not found love there.
Ms. Zweben smudged the apartment and found a buyer. The buyer moved in, quickly fell in love with her neighbor and eventually got married.
And to those who would prefer to ridicule, she and other smudging converts have this to say: It can't hurt.
She even smudged an apartment that she and her husband, Paul Zweben, also a broker, bought and combined with the one they owned directly above.
She said that before they bought it, a curmudgeonly older couple lived there who complained that they made noise. She wanted to smudge out the bad memories of those neighbors.
''Now I don't feel anything negative from them,'' Ms. Zweben said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ziporah Reich, above, wanted to bring a positive energy to her home. A tiny industry has risen to receive such requests. She hired Judith Wendell, right, who says her fees are driven less by apartment size than by ''what's in the space energetically.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FAMILY (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (65%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



101 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Grew in December, but Housing Sector Struggled

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Overall manufacturing activity expanded in December for the 17th consecutive month, although the industries related to the housing sector continued to struggle, according to a report released on Monday.
The Institute for Supply Management said that its index of national factory activity rose to 57 in December, from 56.6 in November, indicating that manufacturers experienced growth throughout 2010. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.
Businesses representing 11 of 18 manufacturing sectors reported growth in December, including those in apparel; leather and related products; metals; machinery and computers and electronics. Contractions were in minerals; paper products; printing, and miscellaneous manufacturing industries. 
Strong readings in new orders and production are expected to create momentum into the first quarter of 2011, said Norbert J. Ore, the chairman of the association's survey committee.
Monday's results were in line with forecasts by analysts, who consider manufacturing crucial to a recovery while also offering clues on how businesses are rebuilding inventories, as well as on employment, new orders and consumer demand.
''All in all, the nation's factories appear to be facing a bright outlook in 2011,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc.
The economic data got the stock market off to a good start on its first trading day of 2011, as the three main indexes rose more than 1 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 122.75 points, or 1.06 percent; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.90 points, or 1.34 percent and the Nasdaq was up by 49.41 points, or 1.85 percent.
Financials, technology, materials and consumer discretionary stocks recorded the strongest gains.
The I.S.M. index for new orders grew to 60.9 in December from 56.6 the previous month, while production rose to 60.7 from 55. At the same time, inventories grew slower, indicating that the rise in output was not just piling up in stockrooms.
Employment, however, contracted to 55.7 from 57.5 in November.
While economists said the report sent a strong signal for the manufacturing sector overall, the upward trend still depends on a recovery in the job market and consumer spending, which saw some resurgence late in the year and could be helped further by a recent reduction in payroll taxes.
''The I.S.M. confirms that the recovery in manufacturing is continuing as consumers decided to spend more this holiday season,'' said Steven Ricchiuto, the chief economist at Mizuho Securities USA.
American manufacturers were also benefiting from changes in world markets. Global demand, especially in Europe and Asia, and a weaker dollar helped American exporters, while Asian manufacturing growth put upward pressure on commodity prices that was reflected in higher producer prices in the United States, said Daniel J. Meckstroth, the chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI.
Mr. Meckstroth said manufacturing production was estimated to expand by 4 percent this year. It has risen about 11 percent from its June 2009 low, but is still below the peak of December 2007.
''A surge in orders and production that is driven by fundamentals rather than inventory rebuilding is a solid base to maintain a recovery,'' he said in a statement.
A separate report showed construction spending hit a five-month high in November, adding to recent economic reports that show that the economy picked up in the final quarter of 2010 after growing at a 2.6 percent rate from July through September.
The Commerce Department said construction spending increased 0.4 percent to an annual rate of $810.2 billion, the highest level since June, after rising by an unrevised 0.7 percent in October. November's increase in construction outlays marked the third straight month of gains.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast construction spending gaining 0.2 percent in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); METALS MARKETS (75%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); EXPORT PRICES (62%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



102 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Siemens Invests in Expanding Wind Power

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- A reader of the annual report of Siemens, the German engineering giant, could easily get the idea that the company was investing in wind energy because management wants to save the planet.
''All our actions and decisions are informed by the principle of sustainability,'' Siemens said in the introduction to its 2010 report, a few pages after the obligatory photograph of the chief executive, Peter Loscher, and the rest of the management board.
In smaller type on Page 90 is the fact that clean energy is a big moneymaker for Siemens. The renewable energy division, which consists mostly of the wind power business, recorded a bigger sales increase than any other unit in the quarter ended Sept. 30, rising 48 percent, to 977 million euros ($1.3 billion). New orders rose 85 percent, to 1.45 billion euros, also a company best. 
Still, the unit's operating profit margin of 10.6 percent lagged that of more conventional businesses, like providing equipment for fossil-fuel power plants, and fell short of Siemens's goal of a 12 percent to 16 percent margin. The unit made 103 million euros for the quarter, and 368 million euros for the fiscal year.
That was about 5 percent of the total yearly profit for Siemens, whose array of products includes trains, factory equipment and X-ray machines.
But like any fast-growing business, there is also risk. The North American market has slumped just as Siemens, which does most of its manufacturing in Denmark, is stepping up investments in the United States and Canada.
On Dec. 3, Siemens opened a factory in Hutchinson, Kan., to make nacelles -- housings the size of a bus that sit atop wind turbine towers and hold the mechanical and generating equipment. Siemens already has a blade factory in Fort Madison, Iowa, which opened in 2007, and is planning a plant in Tillsonburg, Ontario, to supply blades for nearby wind farms.
The company's goal is to become one of the top three suppliers of wind power equipment in the world, up from eighth or ninth now. Vestas Wind Systems, a Danish company that focuses solely on wind power, is the market leader.
To have any chance, however, requires a foothold in China, the world's largest market for wind power, and one of the most difficult to enter because of government policies that favor local companies. In November, Siemens opened a factory in Shanghai, a city chosen in part because it is on the water and a good place from which to ship equipment for offshore wind parks, a niche in which Siemens is the No. 1 equipment supplier.
The Asian market is the largest and fastest growing for wind power, accounting for an estimated 44 percent of global capacity, according to IHS Emerging Energy Research. Europe is second, with 34 percent of global capacity and North America third with 19 percent.
Siemens is also planning factories in the emerging markets of India and Russia as well as in Britain where, despite an austerity budget, the government is strongly backing the development of offshore wind projects.
In the United States, makers of wind power equipment have had to contend with fickle government incentives and a plunge in the price of natural gas, which made wind energy less competitive. In addition, the financial crisis has made it harder for smaller operators to get loans to build wind parks.
''The U.S. was supposed to be one of the most attractive markets,'' said Eduard Sala de Vedruna, a research analyst for wind power at IHS Emerging Energy Research. ''It's not going to be as attractive as it used to be.''
Like General Electric, the market leader in wind power in the United States, Siemens may have an advantage against upstarts because it has long supplied equipment for conventional power plants and transmission facilities run by big utility companies. Siemens also has a long history in countries like Russia and China, where the company sold telegraph equipment as early as 1872.
''Siemens already had some good relationships,'' Mr. Sala de Vedruna said. ''They understand the business of generating electricity.''
But Siemens will also have to contend with ascendant Chinese companies like Sinovel, Goldwind and Dongfang, which are moving rapidly overseas. The Chinese companies offer lower prices and attractive financing, and could force down prices and profit margins, said James Stettler, an analyst for UniCredit in London.
''While Siemens appears better placed than Vestas or G.E., we think the company will also see its margins compress over time,'' Mr. Stettler wrote in an e-mail. In a measure of how wind has become mass market, the Kansas factory will feature a moving assembly line, like an auto factory. In older factories, designed when volumes were lower, the units were assembled in place, a less efficient method. The assembly line cuts the time it takes to build a nacelle to 19 hours from 36, according to Siemens.
Mr. Sala de Vedruna said that he thought the long-term prospects for wind power in the United States were still bright.
Siemens apparently agrees -- and wants to get closer to the customer.
''America is for us still the single largest market,'' said Rene Umlauft, chief executive of Siemens Renewable Energy. Wind turbine components ''are large and heavy and it costs money to move them from one place to another.''
Siemens got into the wind business only in 2004, when it acquired a maker of wind turbines in Brande, Denmark, which remains the headquarters of the wind unit. Watching that business expand seems to have given Siemens an appetite for other investments in renewable energy.
In 2009, Siemens acquired Solel, an Israeli company that makes components for plants that use concentrated heat from the sun to generate power. And last February, Siemens acquired a minority stake in Marine Current Turbines, a British company that makes equipment for generating electricity from ocean tides.
These technologies are still years from mass deployment. But, Mr. Umlauft said, ''we want to do the same thing that we did in wind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On an April tour to discuss the economy, President Obama saw a wind turbine blade at the Siemens Fort Madison, Iowa, plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EURO (74%); TURBINE MFG (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); NEW ORDERS (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%); VESTAS WIND SYSTEMS AS (58%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%); VWS (CPH) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3511 STEAM, GAS, & HYDRAULIC TURBINES & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS (58%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (66%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); EAST CHINA (51%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); DENMARK (86%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



103 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan: Premier Struggles to Keep Government Intact

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, left, struggled to muster support for his government on Monday, a day after a second ally left his governing coalition. But at a time when the economy is teetering, discontent is growing over inflation, and the United States is seeking greater military cooperation, no political party seems eager to join the government. A consensus seemed to be emerging among opposition politicians and analysts that Mr. Gilani would remain in office, but weakened and even less able to govern. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



104 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: President May Realign Senior Staff

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
President Obama has approached William Daley, the brother of Chicago's mayor and a former commerce secretary, about the possibility of becoming White House chief of staff as one part of a reorganization plan in the West Wing, according to people familiar with the conversation, which took place around the holidays.
For weeks, Mr. Obama has been exploring whether to realign his senior staff to prepare for an era of divided government and how to make the most out of the second half of his term. The reorganization has been closely held, with many of the conversations limited only to Mr. Obama and Pete Rouse, the interim chief of staff. 
The prospect that Mr. Daley might assume the duties once held by Rahm Emanuel was first reported Monday by Bloomberg News.
The hiring of Mr. Daley is not imminent, two people close to the White House said, and is contingent on whether Mr. Obama decides to ask Mr. Rouse to remain on board as chief of staff. Senior Democratic officials described Mr. Obama as happy with Mr. Rouse, who has served as chief since Mr. Emanuel's departure in October.
Mr. Daley's arrival would let Mr. Rouse move back out of the spotlight, where he had operated as a senior adviser for two years. Mr. Rouse, who is among Mr. Obama's closet advisers, has expressed an interest in leaving government, but has told associates that he would stay as long as the president asked him.
Publicly, White House officials said last month that no big changes were expected until after the first of the year. That has ratcheted up anticipation that the president - who is scheduled to return from his Hawaiian vacation around 10:30 Tuesday morning - could begin reshaping his senior leadership team as early as this week.
The changes are sure to include the formal arrival of David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign manager, who is slated to replace David Axelrod as the president's senior political adviser. Mr. Obama also is likely to name a replacement for Larry Summers, the chairman of the National Economic Council, as early as this week.
White House officials declined to comment.
If Mr. Daley were offered - and accepted - the chief of staff position, the presence of a tightly-knit fraternity of Chicago advisers would return. Mr. Emanuel, the Obama administration's first chief of staff, resigned last fall to run for mayor of Chicago.
While Mr. Obama and Mr. Daley have known one another for years, with Mr. Obama often turning to Mr. Daley for advice in the 2008 presidential campaign, associates said the men were not extraordinarily close. But hiring Mr. Daley, who served as Commerce Secretary under President Bill Clinton, would almost certainly improve icy relations between the Obama administration and business leaders.
Mr. Daley, who has not responded to requests for comment, is also known to offer blunt advice and criticism. He thought the president and Democratic leaders in Congress overreached on some of their priorities in the last two years.
''They miscalculated on health care,'' Mr. Daley said in an interview last year with The New York Times. ''The election of '08 sent a message that after 30 years of center-right governing, we had moved to center left - not left.''
A decision to bring Mr. Daley into the heart of the administration could further annoy Mr. Obama's liberal base, who frequently accused Mr. Emanuel of encouraging the president to compromise on liberal principles to achieve legislative goals.
Mr. Daley, who was chairman of Vice President Al Gore's 2000 presidential campaign, helped Mr. Clinton pass the North America Free Trade Agreement, which is blamed by many union workers and liberals for helping to move jobs overseas.
Mr. Daley is also the Midwest chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co., who also serves as the bank's head of corporate responsibility. If selected to join the Obama administration, his ties to Wall Street are among the elements of his background that would likely be criticized by left-leaning groups.
The conversations with the president have extended well beyond Mr. Daley, though he is close to several of the president's top aides, including Mr. Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser and close friend from Chicago.
Mr. Obama talked to an array of prominent Democrats, business leaders and even Republicans after the punishing defeats in the midterm elections. Even before the election, he advised Mr. Rouse to conduct a methodical reorganization plan of top West Wing positions.
The president also has kept in regular contact with Mr. Emanuel, his former chief of staff, whose counsel he also has sought about any potential staffing changes. While Mr. Rouse is called the interim White House chief of staff, several administration officials have said that they expect him to remain in the position for months, and the president did not limit his authority.
Mr. Rouse has declined to talk about any personnel changes at the White House.
Mr. Daley has long been an admirer of Mr. Obama's. When Mr. Obama announced his intention to run for president four years ago next week, Mr. Daley offered warm words of encouragement, but did not place all of his eggs in Mr. Obama's basket. He also sent donations to the Democratic presidential campaigns of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and former Senator John Edwards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); PETE ROUSE (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); DAVID AXELROD (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



105 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Premier Fights to Save Government

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD; Waqar Gillani contributed reporting from Lahore, Pakistan.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani struggled to muster support for his government on Monday, a day after a second ally quit the ruling coalition with his Pakistan Peoples Party.
But at a time when the economy is teetering, public discontent is growing over inflation and a worsening power crisis, and the United States is seeking to expand cooperation in the war against terrorism, no political party seems eager to take the reins of the government.
So there seemed to be growing consensus amongst opposition politicians and analysts here that Mr. Gilani would remain in office despite the crisis, but would be deeply weakened and even more unable to govern this fractured and tumultuous country. 
A spokesman for President Asif Ali Zardari, who is the co-chairman of the Pakistan Peoples' Party, issued a strongly worded statement of support for Mr. Gilani.
''The prime minister is not alone, he will not be left alone,'' the statement said. ''The party stands behind him through thick and thin. Let there be no doubt or mistake about it.''
Many see Mr. Zardari as gaining by the crisis facing Mr. Gilani, who has had a dismal record of governance and whose family is the subject of swirling allegations of corruption.
''His goose has come to roost,'' Mushahid Hussain, a former information minister and secretary general of opposition political party Pakistan Muslim-League- Quaid, said in an interview in Islamabad. He dismissed Mr. Zardari's show of support for Mr. Gilani as ''mere posturing.''
The two parties that have left the coalition at the federal level are the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, or M.Q.M., and Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazal. The first left late Sunday, the second last month. But both remain in coalition with the Pakistan Peoples Party in the Sindh and Baluchistan provincial governments, leading analysts and politicians to speculate that both are mainly focused on trying to extract concessions. Only the Jamiat has demanded Mr. Gilani's resignation.
President Zardari has spent the last several days trying to resolve differences with M.Q.M. in the southern Sindh port city of Karachi, where it has traditionally controlled politics. However, as of Monday night, there were no evident signs of rapprochement.
Leaders of M.Q.M. stressed that the government had done nothing to improve deteriorating economic conditions and urged the government to take immediate steps to alleviate rising fuel prices and other domestic burdens.
''We might even think of leaving the coalition government in Sindh,'' Nasreen Jalil, a senior leader of M.Q.M in Karachi, said in an interview. ''There is no negotiation at present. We are in the opposition.''
As part of Mr. Gilani's efforts to avert a no-confidence vote in Parliament, he held talks with Shahbaz Sharif, the chief minister of Punjab Province and the younger brother of the opposition leader and former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.
Officials of Mr. Sharif's party, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, say that they are proceeding cautiously as the political crisis unfolds. ''We will neither sink the government nor extend them our shoulder,'' said Ahsan Iqbal, a legislator from the party.
Mr. Gilani also met Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain and Chaudhry Pervez Ilahi, leaders of Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid political party, which is the next largest opposition party. Maulana Abdul Ghafoor Haideri, a leader of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazal, reiterated his party's demand on Monday that Mr. Gilani resign, saying he no longer had a majority in the Parliament.
Hasan Askari Rizvi, a leading political and military analyst based in Lahore, seemed to think that Mr. Gilani still had some breathing space.
''I do not see the government of Mr. Gilani collapsing in the next few weeks,'' Mr. Rizvi said. ''I think he still has some opportunity to pull together some support, but unless he does that he cannot survive for long. Only Pakistan Muslim League-N can push forward a no-confidence motion against the prime minister. Till now, it has not shown such signs.''
But even if the crisis does not cause the government to collapse, he said, ''the imminent impasse in the political system would mean that the current government cannot last its full term, which ends in 2013.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RELIGION (64%); TERRORISM (56%); CORRUPTION (51%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



106 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Iran Invites Some Nations, Not U.S., for Nuclear Tour

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from Brussels, and Steven Erlanger from Paris.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Iran has invited Russia, China and several European Union members to visit its nuclear facilities this month, but pointedly snubbed the United States, European diplomats said on Monday.
The invitation -- which seemed calculated to divide the alliance of nations opposed to Iran's nuclear ambitions before the next round of negotiations over the program -- was swiftly dismissed by the United States.
''It's a clever ploy, but it's not a substitute for Iran's responsibilities to the I.A.E.A.,'' said the State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, referring to the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has been locked in an increasingly tense standoff with the Iranian government over its enrichment of uranium. 
''It won't draw international attention away from the issues regarding Iran's nuclear program,'' Mr. Crowley added, noting that its enrichment activities violated six United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The European diplomats said the invitation was not likely to be accepted, if at all, until after the next round of negotiations, expected to be held in Istanbul at the end of this month.
''This is something that in principle could be interesting, but not before the next round of talks,'' said one diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the confidential deliberations. ''This seems like Iranian tactics: they would like to put up a smokescreen and link things that can't be linked.''
The Iranian letter was sent to Russia, China, members of the European Union, and other countries. The United States would normally be included in such a group, as it negotiates with Iran, along with the other permanent members of the Security Council -- Britain, France, Russia and China -- as well as Germany.
''There's no invitation in our in-box,'' Mr. Crowley said.
The United States has assembled a coalition to impose sanctions on Iran, unilaterally and through the United Nations. But Russia and especially China still maintain commercial ties with Iran, and they have voiced reluctance about further tightening the economic vise on Tehran.
The Associated Press, citing an unidentified diplomat, said Iran was offering access to sites at Natanz and Bushehr, as well as meetings with two top officials involved in the program: Ali Salehi, the acting foreign minister who oversees it, and Saeed Jalili, the chief nuclear negotiator.
That would appear to rule out a visit to the enrichment facility near the holy city of Qum, the existence of which was disclosed by the Obama administration in late 2009 and has come to symbolize Iran's murky intentions.
Natanz, another site for uranium enrichment, has also long concerned international inspectors. But the Bushehr nuclear plant, which is being built with Russian technology, is viewed as less of a threat since it operates under safeguards. Iran insists its entire program is for civilian power generation.
Last month, Iran held two days of largely unproductive nuclear talks with the United States and other countries in Geneva. The atmosphere was frosty, said diplomats who took part, and there was no separate meeting between the American and Iranian representatives.
The Geneva meeting was organized by Catherine Ashton, the European Union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. But this invitation was sent to European representatives at the atomic energy agency's headquarters in Vienna -- including Hungary, which just took over the presidency of the European Union -- rather than to Ms. Ashton, a diplomat said.
Normally, he said, when Iran does something like this they immediately publicize it. The Associated Press said this letter was dated Dec. 27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



107 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Remaking Washington, Cautiously

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
ZIONSVILLE, Pa. -- Patrick J. Toomey was elected to the Senate in November as part of the Republican revolution, with a big assist from Tea Party activists, an endorsement from Sarah Palin and the expectation that he would join with other antiestablishment conservatives to remake Washington. But as he prepared to take office this week, Mr. Toomey hardly sounded like a partisan rabble-rouser.
For one thing, he supported repealing the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy to allow gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military.
For another, he gave a nod to bipartisanship by writing an op-ed article for USA Today with a Democrat, Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, that urged both parties to ban earmarks. ''Cross-party alliances often make for the most effective partnerships,'' the two wrote. 
Mr. Toomey also abstained, in a recent interview here in his hometown, from taking a position on the recent tax compromise between President Obama and Republican leaders to extend the Bush-era tax cuts -- despite the strong opposition of his Senate patron, Jim DeMint of South Carolina, and of the Club for Growth, of which Mr. Toomey is a past president.
Mr. Toomey is one of five Republican freshmen -- the others are Marco Rubio of Florida, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Mike Lee of Utah and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin -- who rode the anti-incumbency wave into the Senate with support from the Tea Party.
Upon being sworn in on Wednesday, they will become part of the government they railed against. They will also try to avoid being co-opted by the establishment, which is embodied by the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
Although Republicans remain in the minority in the Senate, these freshmen will help test the Tea Party movement's clout.
''I think this class is going to move the center of gravity of the conference,'' Mr. Toomey said at a diner near his home here in the exurbs of the industrial Lehigh Valley.
The freshmen are generally more fiscally conservative than the senators they are succeeding, he said, and the message of ''limited government'' from the November elections would ''embolden incumbents to be more ambitious about getting spending under control.''
He cited the Republicans' vow to ban earmarks as a good first start. ''That wasn't an easy place for McConnell to get to,'' he said. ''But he got there.''
The freshmen will also be monitored for how closely they adhere to Tea Party priorities like cutting spending and shrinking the size of government.
''I would be shocked if Pat Toomey broke our hearts on those issues,'' said Matt Kibbe, president of FreedomWorks, the libertarian advocacy group that promoted the Tea Party movement. ''But I've been shocked before.''
Mr. Toomey, 49, joins the Senate with a reputation as a giant-killer, if only indirectly. He nearly beat Senator Arlen Specter in a Republican primary in 2004. His candidacy last year set in motion a riveting political drama that prompted Mr. Specter to bolt from the party after more than four decades and become a Democrat. Mr. Specter then lost the Democratic primary in May to Representative Joe Sestak, who in turn lost to Mr. Toomey in November.
But Mr. Toomey captured only 51 percent of the vote. Analysts said that if he expected to be re-elected in six years -- he has not set a term limit for himself, as he did when he served in the House -- he cannot ignore the independents and the Democrats who swung his way.
''It's not lost on him that half the state voted against him,'' said David Urban, a Washington lobbyist and moderate Republican who was once chief of staff to Mr. Specter.
Mr. Toomey's goals have remained fairly consistent over his time in public life: cut spending and overhaul the tax code. He also wants to scrap the Democrats' new health care law. And he intends to continue to push for allowing young people to invest part of their Social Security payroll tax.
But he signaled in the interview, as he did during the campaign, that he would not be an ideological purist.
On ''don't ask, don't tell,'' Mr. Toomey said that since the military brass believed that allowing gay men and lesbians to serve openly would enable the armed forces to execute their mission better, he was supportive of a repeal. He also said that the previous policy was wrong because it forced gay service members to ''live a lie.''
His neutrality on the tax compromise suggested that he would not be an automatic vote for Mr. DeMint, whose political fund contributed to his campaign. Neutrality also lets him avoid having to pick sides, for now, between Mr. DeMint and Mr. McConnell.
''I think there's a real chance we'll be reasonably united,'' he said of Senate Republicans. ''If we are, then I don't have to pick a camp.''
Whether Mr. Toomey's moderating statements are mere posturing may become clear soon enough. Even he acknowledged that sooner or later he would be caught up in the politics of Capitol Hill. He said he expected that his alliances would periodically shift, depending on the issue and the context. Political analysts agreed.
''Clearly, he aligns with the more ideological elements on fiscal policy, spending, earmarks and regulation, so he'll find he is a vote for Jim DeMint,'' said Christopher Borick, a political scientist at nearby Muhlenberg College.
But Mr. Toomey may break with Mr. DeMint, too, Mr. Borick said. ''He has been such a darling of the right that he has room to make gestures to independents and moderates without alienating his base,'' Mr. Borick said.
Mr. Toomey was born and raised in Rhode Island, one of six children, and his father, a union man who laid electrical cable, is a vocal Democrat. Mr. Toomey graduated from Harvard, was inspired by Ronald Reagan and valued free markets and the entrepreneurial spirit as he pursued various careers -- as a financier, a restaurateur with his brothers, a member of Congress and president of the pro-business Club for Growth.
The club is a group of fiscal conservatives who financed like-minded Republicans to challenge members of their own party if they seemed insufficiently conservative -- what Mr. Specter, a club target, recently called ''cannibalism.''
During the campaign, Mr. Urban, the former Specter aide, helped Mr. Toomey soften his image and connect with moderate Republicans. He arranged, for example, for Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican who supports abortion rights, to headline a fund-raiser in Philadelphia for Mr. Toomey, who opposes abortion rights.
Mr. Toomey kept social issues on the back burner, saying then as he does now that they were of lower priority than restoring the economy. During the campaign, he refrained from making statements like one earlier in his career when he said that ''my idea of gun control is a steady aim,'' and he did not promote his endorsement by Ms. Palin. He also said he would have voted to confirm Justice Sonia Sotomayor, Mr. Obama's first nominee to the Supreme Court.
His Democratic opponent, Mr. Sestak, said during the campaign that Mr. Toomey was simply trying to hide his extremist agenda, which Mr. Sestak said would benefit only the wealthy and Wall Street and would ruin the environment (Mr. Toomey opposes climate change legislation). But Mr. Sestak's argument lost its punch in the shadow of the Senate race next door in Delaware, where the Republican candidate, Christine O'Donnell, was perceived as far more extreme.
Mr. Urban said he hoped to continue to help Mr. Toomey ''expand his Rolodex'' and called his support for allowing gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military ''a pretty significant marker.''
''You can be Jim DeMint in South Carolina,'' Mr. Urban said, ''but you can't be Jim DeMint in Pennsylvania.''
As he charts his course in Washington, Mr. Toomey is planning to minimize his time there so he can maintain his family life here, south of Allentown, where he lives with his wife, Kris, and their three children, Bridget, 10, Patrick, 8, and Duncan, almost 8 months.
At their house in a new development, Mrs. Toomey was cooling a batch of pumpkin muffins and churning cookie dough while Mr. Toomey's daughter slid through his legs and his older son wielded a new Nerf gun.
''We've got a wonderful little life here,'' he said later over coffee at the Trivet diner. ''I very much doubt we can re-create this environment in Washington.''
Like many lawmakers, he will rent an apartment on Capitol Hill and dash home when he can. Unlike most members, Mr. Toomey, a pilot, has his own small plane (though he now uses a professional pilot), and he hopes that means that ''I'm down there for, frankly, as little time as possible.''
As Mr. Toomey left the diner, several patrons told him that they had voted for him, and many reminded him of what they expect.
''You have our support,'' Royal Stoneback, 72, an Army veteran and a retired school bus driver, told him. ''As long as you're faithful to conservative Republican traditions.''
''Gotcha, loud and clear,'' Mr. Toomey replied, zipping up his black bomber jacket and heading into a cold wind.
Patrick J. Toomey: BORN: Nov. 17, 1961; Rhode Island; third of six children. RELIGION: Catholic. EDUCATION: Harvard University, 1984. FAMILY: Wife: Kris; children: Bridget, 10; Patrick, 8; Duncan, 8 months. CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Investment banker; financial consultant; owner, with brothers, of restaurants in Allentown and Lancaster; member of Congress from 1999 to 2005; president of the Club for Growth. ON THE POLITICAL MAP: Challenged Senator Arlen Specter in the 2004 Republican primary and was backed by Judge Robert H. Bork, whom Mr. Specter had blocked from the Supreme Court. Mr. Toomey lost by a narrow margin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I think there's a real chance we'll be reasonably united,'' Patrick J. Toomey said of Republican senators. (A11)
 Senator-elect Patrick J. Toomey, at home with his baby, Duncan, and Bridget and Patrick Jr., said he wanted to spend as little time in Washington as possible. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT RAINEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (67%)

PERSON: PAT TOOMEY (92%); SARAH PALIN (73%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); JIM DEMINT (58%); MIKE LEE (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); RON JOHNSON (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011



108 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Pomp, and Little Circumstance

 BODY:
A theatrical production of unusual pomposity will open on Wednesday when Republicans assume control of the House for the 112th Congress. A rule will be passed requiring that every bill cite its basis in the Constitution. A bill will be introduced to repeal the health care law. On Thursday, the Constitution will be read aloud in the House chamber. And in one particularly self-important flourish, the new speaker, John Boehner, arranged to have his office staff ''sworn in'' on Tuesday by the chief justice of the United States.
Those who had hoped to see a glimpse of the much-advertised Republican plan to revive the economy and put Americans back to work will have to wait at least until party leaders finish their Beltway insider ritual of self-glorification. Then, they may find time for governing. 
The empty gestures are officially intended to set a new tone in Washington, to demonstrate -- presumably to the Republicans' Tea Party supporters -- that things are about to be done very differently. But it is far from clear what message is being sent by, for instance, reading aloud the nation's foundational document. Is this group of Republicans really trying to suggest that they care more deeply about the Constitution than anyone else and will follow it more closely?
In any case, it is a presumptuous and self-righteous act, suggesting that they alone understand the true meaning of a text that the founders wisely left open to generations of reinterpretation. Certainly the Republican leadership is not trying to suggest that African-Americans still be counted as three-fifths of a person.
There is a similar air of vacuous fundamentalism in requiring that every bill cite the Constitutional power given to Congress to enact it. The new House leadership says this is necessary because the health care law and other measures that Republicans do not like have veered from the Constitution. But it is the judiciary that ultimately decides when a law is unconstitutional, not the transitory occupant of the speaker's chair.
All of this, though, is simply eyewash -- the equivalent of a flag-draped background to a speech -- compared with the actual legislation the Republicans plan to pass. And though much of that has no possibility of being enacted, it does suggest the depth of the struggle to come. The bill tauntingly titled the ''Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act'' has nothing to do with increasing employment and will never reach the Senate floor, but shows that the leadership is willing to threaten the hard-fought access to health care for millions of the uninsured, just to make a political point.
On budgetary issues, the House Republicans' new rules bypass the chamber and even their own Budget Committee to give all power to set spending levels to the committee's new chairman, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin. It is hard to imagine how long such an aggrandizement of power will last in a contentious body like the House. The plans by Mr. Ryan and his colleagues to simply cut all spending back to 2008 levels also have no chance of being enacted.
The one good thing about these meaningless rules and bills is that they finally seem to be prodding House Democrats into standing up for their own programs as they enter the minority. Democrats have begun to remind Americans of what is at stake in repealing health care: popular provisions like the elimination of lifetime coverage limits, insurance under parents' policies up to age 26, and coverage for pre-existing conditions.
The Republicans' antics are a ghastly waste of time at a moment when the nation is expecting real leadership from Congress, and suggest that the new House leadership is still unable to make tough choices. Voters, no less than drama critics, prefer substance to overblown theatrics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); THEATER (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); POLITICS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); RELIGION (68%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



109 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: American Airlines in Fee Battle With Web Agencies

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
A traveler searching two of the four largest online travel agencies, Orbitz and Expedia, is not going to find any listings for American Airlines flights -- at least for the moment.
That is because American is in a standoff over the fees it must pay to list its flights with the agencies. And while that is the immediate reason for the dispute, a broader issue is at stake: how American's tickets are displayed and marketed to travelers.
American has developed direct connection distribution technology -- which Orbitz and Expedia have refused to adopt -- that could change the way it displays and sells tickets. Rather than displaying fare listings based primarily on schedules and prices, American's technology eventually will customize offers to a traveler's individual needs. So, during booking, the site will display fees charged for more legroom, priority seating or whatever else the passenger prefers, thus enabling American to promote options that could generate more revenue.
Industry analysts expect that American will resolve the disputes. In fact, Cory Garner, American's director of distribution strategy, said Tuesday that ''discussions are ongoing'' and that he hoped the differences would be resolved since ''it is in the best interest of all of us to continue to do business together.'' 
In the longer term, however, it is unclear if American's direct connection system will succeed, especially if demand for air travel should fall again.
American's battle with Orbitz and Expedia began in November, when American told Orbitz, the smallest of the top three publicly traded online travel agencies, that it intended to end its contract with the agency on Dec. 1. Travelport, a global distribution system company that owns 48 percent of Orbitz, tried to block American's move. But a circuit court judge in Cook County, Ill., late last month ruled that American could proceed.
Meanwhile, Expedia, the top online travel agency, chose not to renew its contract with American when it expired on Dec. 31, because it, too, did not want to use the airline's new technology.
Because both sites no longer list or sell American flights, travelers who want to buy a ticket on American online must now use sites like Priceline or Travelocity, or aa.com, the carrier's site.
Until the 1990s, United States airlines generally relied on travel agents, who use what is known in the business as global distribution systems -- databases that show airlines' up-to-the-minute inventory -- to sell tickets. The airlines paid agents commissions for their sales. But, to reduce operating costs, carriers stopped paying commissions to many travel agents in the 1990s.
Kevin Crissey, who follows airlines and online travel agencies for UBS, said that commissions now paid to large travel agencies that book significant amounts of leisure or business travel represented 3 to 4 percent of airlines' operating costs. The airlines would like to reduce these costs further.
The carriers continue to pay fees to the global distribution systems for bookings, and the global distribution systems still give part of these fees back to the agencies. American wants to reduce or eliminate those payments. (Here's a further paradox in American's stance: American founded Sabre, a major global distribution system, that, in turn, established Travelocity, another of the top four online travel agencies.)
Gerard Arpey, chief executive of American, and Richard Anderson, chief of Delta Air Lines -- which, not coincidentally, also stopped working with three smaller online travel agencies last month -- said in early 2009 that they would ultimately like to have the intermediaries between them and their customers pay for access to their inventory, ''rather than us paying them to distribute our product,'' as Mr. Arpey put it.
As part of the standoff, American, as well as other older airlines, has questioned the value of bookings generated by the Web agencies, which tend to be low-priced tickets sold to leisure travelers. According to Mr. Crissey, online agencies generate about 17 percent of those airlines' total revenue, compared with 25 percent of revenue generated by the airlines' own Web sites and 53 percent generated by offline travel agencies. Fares sold by online agencies are, on average, 45 percent cheaper than fares sold by offline agencies.
Furthermore, Mr. Crissey said, to sell an average, round-trip domestic ticket, American must pay $10 to $12, for global distribution and agency incentive fees, on online agency bookings, while it costs the carrier only $2 to $3 -- for administrative and marketing expenses -- to sell the same ticket on its own Web site. It is, therefore, much cheaper for American to sell a deeply discounted ticket, one that doesn't generate significant revenue, on its own Web site.
In an analysis issued Tuesday, Douglas Quinby, senior director of research at PhocusWright, a travel industry research firm, suggested that ''American chose Orbitz to send a message to its major shareholder and GDS Travelport about the cost of distribution.''
Mr. Quinby added, ''American's determination to show Travelport that it does not need those Orbitz segments -- true or not -- is a powerful stick to wield at the negotiating table.''
In the long run, he wrote, American wants travelers' search queries ''to be passed from the agency to its Direct Connect, and they would determine what flights and fares to display.''
The significance cannot be overstated, he added. ''This is nothing less than a battle for control of air fare search results.''
Mike McCormick, executive director of the National Business Travel Association, a trade group for corporate travel managers, warned that if American's direct connection technology bypassed existing distribution systems, it ''could result in a significant increase in capital expenditure that business travel buyers will ultimately bear'' because ''travel management companies will need to build new systems to capture these 'direct connect' fares on behalf of their business travel clients, resulting in higher costs over all.''
For leisure travelers, American's spat ''punches a big hole in the value proposition'' of the online agencies, which can no longer claim to be ''one-stop shopping sites,'' said Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com.
Travelers will have to ''pay more attention when they're out there price shopping, since two of the largest online agencies aren't selling flights of the third-largest airline,'' he said.
Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, agreed. ''Travelers will have to work harder and take more time to shop, change the sites they use, shop on Priceline, Travelocity and aa.com, or add a metasearch site like Kayak.com, Bing Travel or FareCompare,'' he said.
Mr. Quinby said he expected the global distribution systems would ''continue to adapt, and acquire as need be, to keep their seat at the table.''
He added, however, that ''there's nothing like a recession, geopolitical disaster or oil price surge to send the best intended distribution strategies into a tailspin.'' In addition, he said Google's proposed purchase of I.T.A., the provider of flight data, which federal regulators are reviewing, ''could change everything for just about everybody.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A terminal at the Miami airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Industry analysts expect American Airlines will resolve the disputes with Orbitz and Expedia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (91%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); COMMISSION PAY (63%); JUDGES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (95%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (90%); TRAVELPORT LTD (53%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (95%); OWW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (95%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (95%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (90%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



110 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Budget Hawk Eyes Deficit

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Indianapolis
Of all the Republicans talking about the deficit these days, Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, has arguably the most credibility.
Congressional Republicans have spent much of the last decade voting for tax cuts and spending increases, all the while giving speeches decrying the deficit. Mr. Daniels, who took office in 2005, has reduced the number of state workers by 18 percent and held spending growth below inflation. He has raised the sales tax to help make up for a property tax cut. Largely as a result, Indiana finds itself in better fiscal shape than many other states.
Which is why Mr. Daniels is often mentioned as a potential presidential candidate, despite -- as just about every profile notes -- not looking much like a president (5 foot 7, with a comb-over) and seeming genuinely torn about the rigors of a national campaign.
I recently sat down with him in his office to talk about what small government might actually look like. To be clear, it would be very different from the Tea Party dream, in which taxes could be cut; Medicare, Social Security and the military could be left untouched; and the deficit would somehow vanish. Mr. Daniels is willing to acknowledge as much. 
He says he avoids using the phrase ''waste, fraud and abuse'' because ''it's too glib -- there's no wand you can wave.'' He says military spending should be cut. He called the Republicans' recent attacks on Democratic efforts to slow Medicare's cost growth ''not a proud moment for our party.'' He had kind words for the Tea Party but pointed out that it did not have a solution.
''Nobody that I know got up in front of those rallies and said 'You're right, you're right, now here's what we have to do,' '' he told me. '' 'There's going to have to be a different kind of Medicare in the future, and there's going to have to be a different kind of Social Security.' We really are going to have to re-examine a whole host of these things.''
As nice as it as it may be to keep taxes low and government benefits generous, it's also folly. At some point, we will have to choose.
At some point, a politician -- presumably a Democrat, maybe President Obama -- will make the case that Medicare, Social Security, a strong military, good schools and a large scientific-research budget are worth the cost of higher taxes. For precisely these reasons, countries, including this one, have tended to raise taxes as they have grown richer.
On the other side of the debate, one hopes, will be a Republican willing to make an honest case for low taxes. These days, Mr. Daniels is the closest thing to being that Republican.
In person, he lives up to his reputation of lacking a politician's usual airs. Ten minutes before the scheduled start of our interview, he wandered out of his office, on the second floor of the grand State Capitol, and poured himself coffee into a paper cup. He was wearing a bright blue shirt with a logo reading ''Indiana accelerates your business'' that seemed like something from a company retreat.
Over the next 90 minutes, he laid out what amounted to a three-part vision of American government.
The first part revolves around simply making government work better. ''Government is, essentially, the last monopoly,'' he said. ''Monopolies tend to abuse their position. They overcharge and underserve their customers.'' No matter how bad the service at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, you can't get your license anywhere else.
So Mr. Daniels has tried to ''implant accountability,'' as he puts it. The state measures workers' performance and has given bigger raises to top performers. Mr. Daniels also holds an annual ceremony to celebrate workers who have saved Indiana money.
The focus on performance has allowed the state to reduce its work force, largely through attrition, and still function well. ''So far, he's managed to do it without a noticeable loss of service,'' John Ketzenberger, president of the Indiana Fiscal Policy Institute, told me later. Lawrence DeBoer, a state budget expert at Purdue, added, ''You've got to give them some credit for that.''
Mr. Daniels's favorite example is that the average wait time at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles has fallen to eight minutes, from 40 minutes, since 2005.
Nothing about this good-government push is inherently Republican, either. Mr. Obama, who talked during his campaign about creating an ''iPod government,'' would be wise to see what the federal government might learn from Indiana.
The second part of the Daniels agenda is more ideological. To deal with the huge projected deficits, he favors major changes to Medicare and Social Security, rather than any increase in taxes.
Benefits should be cut for high-income and healthy people. The gradual increase in Social Security benefits over time should be cut, so that tomorrow's retirees get the same benefits (after adjusting for inflation) as today's. And the eligibility age of both programs should increase.
Today's children ''will live to be more than 100,'' he told me. ''They'll be replacing body parts like we do tires.''
He also thinks that people should save money when they choose less expensive Medicare treatments and lose money when they choose more expensive ones. Progressives, he said, believe in letting experts decide which treatments the government will cover. He wants individuals to decide what care they will get.
Today, people understandably push for the most expensive treatments because they don't pay the bill. He would prefer that if you and your family choose to spend tens of thousands of dollars on your final weeks of life, you understand that ''the inheritance you will leave to your kids is going to be wiped out, cut in half or something.'' Either way, he acknowledged, the choice is ''impossibly difficult.''
Finally, Mr. Daniels likes to describe himself as a Whig, after the 19th-century political party whose modernizing agenda attracted Abraham Lincoln and Henry Clay.
Mr. Daniels says the government must be aggressive at doing things the private sector cannot, like improving schools and building roads. ''The nation really needs to rebuild,'' he said. As a good Whig would, he has pushed all of Indiana onto daylight saving time -- so that the time no longer maddeningly changes as you drive around the state -- and he's consolidated some unwieldy local governments.
How well has the program worked? If you read the conservative hagiographies, you may come away believing that Mr. Daniels has found the secret to prosperity. But that's not the case.
Shortly before taking office, he gathered his staff in an Indianapolis hotel and told them that their No. 1 goal was lifting the per capita disposable income of the state's residents. Instead, income growth in Indiana has trailed growth nationwide and in every bordering state but Michigan.
Cutting government is no economic panacea. But it will surely have to be part of the solution to our long-term budget problems, in Washington and in the states. Mr. Daniels, at least, has begun offering a serious choice about what kind of government we should have.
''I'm a believer in self-government, so I think people are entitled to decide this question as long as they're willing to pay for it,'' he told me ''What we're not entitled to do is impoverish our children and pass the bill on to others.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Measuring Indiana's Financial Well-Being: Compared with nearby states, Indiana has not had as severe of a budget deterioration since 2005 . . .
. . . but per capita disposable income of Indiana residents has not generally kept pace with income elsewhere. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); SALES TAX (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



111 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Friends With Benefits

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. COHAN. 
William D. Cohan, a columnist for nytimes.com, is the author of a forthcoming book on Goldman Sachs. Maureen Dowd is off today. Thomas L. Friedman is on book leave.

 BODY:
Can Goldman Sachs, the profit-seeking missile of high finance, really make money by investing $450 million in Facebook, at a vertigo-inducing price that values the social-networking company at $50 billion?
On first blush, the answer would appear to be no. After all, in May 2009, the company was valued at $10 billion. Last August, Facebook was valued at $27 billion and now it's $50 billion - for a company with a reported $2 billion in revenue and negligible profits. If General Electric, with 2010 revenue of around $150 billion, traded at a similar multiple of revenue, it would be worth $3.75 trillion instead of $200 billion. Facebook is now considered to be worth more than Time Warner, DuPont and Goldman's rival Morgan Stanley.
Just last week, Facebook's shares were said to be trading on a private-market exchange at a valuation of $42.4 billion. Thanks to Goldman's imprimatur, Facebook's value increased 20 percent virtually overnight. Can Goldman really expect to squeeze more water from this stone? 
Sadly, yes.
To understand why, we have to go to the heart of the many problems in the way the Wall Street cartel does business, despite the promised reforms of the Dodd-Frank law. With Goldman's investment in Facebook, we have a front-row seat to the process by which Wall Street creates and inflates financial bubbles.
This bout of hysteria involves not only Facebook but other Internet companies including Twitter, the gaming site Zynga, the social buying site Groupon and LinkedIn, another social networking site. The valuation of these companies has soared in the past two years, leading some to worry that the American people bailed out Wall Street so that we could relive the Internet Bubble of 1999.
Despite the high price of its investment, Goldman sees in Facebook a business bonanza, a nearly perfect nugget of investment-banking opportunities. First, Goldman's cost of capital is close to zero - as a bank holding company, it can borrow from the Federal Reserve at negligible interest rates - so any capital gain it makes on its venture in Facebook will be sheer profit. Second, Goldman has almost certainly locked up the role of lead manager of the inevitable Facebook initial public offering.
Fees for underwriting public offerings are generally about 7 percent of the value of the stock sold. Facebook could easily sell $2 billion of stock or more, generating fees to Goldman and the other underwriters of at least $140 million. The other benefit for Goldman in leading the public offering - aside from major bragging rights - is that it can use its marketing, sales and distribution muscle to make sure the value of Facebook at the time of the offering exceeds the $50 billion valuation at which Goldman invested.
Goldman has also won from Facebook the right to offer an additional $1.5 billion of the company's stock to its private-wealth clients. According to The Times, Goldman will be creating a ''special purpose vehicle'' to sell the stock to its wealthy clients and then will charge them a 4 percent initial fee plus 5 percent of any profits. While on paper it seems that these high rollers would be foolish to invest in Facebook at such a lofty valuation, they will still most certainly feel increased loyalty to Goldman for making such an exclusive opportunity available to them. On top of it all, there is the increased likelihood that Goldman will get to manage a good portion of the $12 billion fortune belonging to Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder, for yet more fees.
If Goldman does take all these roles at once - investor, salesman, money manager, I.P.O. underwriter - it would certainly raise the ugly specter of conflicts of interest. But probably not to Goldman executives, who have always prided themselves on being able to ''manage'' through such situations. (In fairness, there's likely no investment-banking firm on the planet that would not eagerly take Goldman's place in this scheme, if offered the chance.)
Even though Facebook is reported to have little need for Goldman's money, having Goldman validate Facebook's exponential increase in value gives Mr. Zuckerberg the ultimate Silicon Valley street cred, far more than he got from having Hollywood make a movie about him or from becoming the youngest billionaire on the planet.
With all these winners, who will the losers be? The average investor, of course, who will get left holding the bag when, someday, Wall Street realizes the firm's financial performance doesn't live up to its hyped valuation.
This column appeared in print on January 5, 2011.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (73%); BAILOUTS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); CARTELS (68%); GROUP BUYING (64%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); GROUPON INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



112 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1900 words

HEADLINE: Resurgent Turkey Builds Influence Across Iraq

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID

 BODY:
ZAKHO, Iraq -- A Turkey as resurgent as at any time since its Ottoman glory is projecting influence through a turbulent Iraq, from the boomtowns of the north to the oil fields near southernmost Basra, in a show of power that illustrates its growing heft across an Arab world long suspicious of it.
Its ascent here, in an arena contested by the United States and Iran, may prove its greatest success so far, as it emerges from the shadow of its alliance with the West to chart an often assertive and independent foreign policy.
Turkey's influence is greater in northern Iraq and broader, though not deeper, than Iran's in the rest of the country. While the United States invaded and occupied Iraq, losing more than 4,400 troops there, Turkey now exerts what may prove a more lasting legacy -- so-called soft power, the assertion of influence through culture, education and business. 
''This is the trick -- we are very much welcome here,'' said Ali Riza Ozcoskun, who heads Turkey's consulate in Basra, one of four diplomatic posts it has in Iraq.
Turkey's newfound influence here has played out along an axis that runs roughly from Zakho in the north to Basra, by way of the capital, Baghdad. For a country that once deemed the Kurdish region in northern Iraq an existential threat, Turkey has embarked on the beginning of what might be called a beautiful friendship.
In the Iraqi capital, where politics are not for the faint-hearted, it promoted a secular coalition that it helped build, drawing the ire of Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, along the way. For Iraq's abundant oil and gas, it has positioned itself as the country's gateway to Europe, while helping to satisfy its own growing energy needs.
Just as the Justice and Development Party of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has reoriented politics in Turkey, it is doing so in Iraq, with repercussions for the rest of the region.
While some Turkish officials recoil at the notion of neo-Ottomanism -- an orientation of Turkey away from Europe and toward an empire that once included parts of three continents -- the country's process of globalization and attention to the markets of the Middle East is upsetting assumptions that only American power is decisive. Turkey has committed itself here to economic integration, seeing its future in at least an echo of its past.
''No one is trying to overtake Iraq or one part of Iraq,'' said Aydin Selcen, who heads the consulate in Erbil, which opened this year. ''But we are going to integrate with this country. Roads, railroads, airports, oil and gas pipelines -- there will be a free flow of people and goods between the two sides of the border.''
By the border, he meant Zakho and the 26-lane checkpoint of Ibrahim Khalil, where 1,500 trucks pass daily, bringing Turkish building materials, clothes, furniture, food and pretty much everything else that fills shops in northern Iraq.
The economic boom they have helped propel has reverberated across Iraq. Trade between the two countries amounted to about $6 billion in 2010, almost double what it was in 2008, Turkish officials say. They project that, in two or three years, Iraq may be Turkey's biggest export market.
''This is the very beginning,'' said Rushdi Said, the flamboyant Iraqi Kurdish chairman of Adel United, a company involved in everything from mining to sprawling housing projects. ''All of the world has started fighting over Iraq. They're fighting for the money.''
Ambition, in 4 Languages
Mr. Said's suit, accented by a black-and-white handkerchief in the pocket, shines like his optimism, the get-rich-quick kind. In some ways, he is a reincarnation of an Ottoman merchant, at ease in Kurdish, Turkish, Persian and Arabic. In any of those languages, he boasts of what he plans.
He has thought of contacting Angelina Jolie, ''maybe Arnold and Sylvester, too,'' to interest them in some of his 11 projects across Iraq to build 100,000 villas and apartments at the cost of a few billion dollars. So far, though, his best partner is the singer Ibrahim Tatlises, the Turkish-born Kurdish superstar, whose portrait adorns Mr. Said's advertisement for his project the Plain of Paradise.
''The villas are ready!'' Mr. Tatlises says in television ads. ''Come! Come! Come!''
Erbil, the Kurdish capital in the north where Mr. Said lives, has become the nexus of Turkish politics and business, made possible by the sharp edge of military power.
About 15,000 Turks work in Erbil and other parts of the north, and Turkish companies, more than 700 of them, make up two-thirds of all foreign companies in the region. Travel requirements have been lifted, and the consulate in Erbil issues as many as 300 visas a day. A Turkish religious movement operates 19 schools in the region, educating 5,500 students, Arabs, Turkmens and Kurds mingling in a lingua franca of English.
Turkish officials talk about transforming the region into something akin to the American-Mexican border, a frontier as ambiguous as any line on a map is precise. Even some Kurdish officials have embraced the idea, though interpreting the notion differently.
While Turkey sees integration as a way to tap nascent markets in the Middle East, some Kurdish officials have seen it more emotionally, as a way to bind them to Kurdish regions in neighboring countries that no degree of political negotiations could ever achieve.
''The borders between us were not drawn by us,'' Kamal Kirkuki, the speaker of the local Kurdish Parliament, said of the frontier with Turkey, Iran and Syria, all with Kurdish minorities, ''It's a de facto border and we have to respect it, but in our hearts we don't see it. We want to integrate the people without any bureaucracies keeping them apart.''
Kurds represent nearly 20 percent of Turkey's population, and Turkish governments have long viewed calls for their self-determination as a fundamental threat to the state. The same went for Kurds in Iraq, whose autonomy might provide an inspiration to Turkey's own minority. Since 2007, those assumptions have undergone a seismic shift.
Over the smoldering reservations of the Turkish military, which has carried out repeated coups against elected governments, Mr. Erdogan has undertaken halting steps to reconcile with Turkey's own Kurds in what the government has termed ''the Kurdish opening.'' They have met with mixed success, but the new climate reflects the changes: Turkish diplomats here casually refer to Iraqi Kurdistan -- the K-word long being a taboo -- and Massoud Barzani, that region's president, no longer talks about Greater Kurdistan.
Diplomatic Balancing Act
Less publicly, American officials in late 2007 began to support Turkish military action against Kurdish rebels in Turkey who have sought refuge in northern Iraq. Turkey still keeps as many as 1,500 troops here, officials say, and the cooperation has allowed them, as a senior American official put it, ''to quite effectively strike'' the Kurdish rebels.
Iraqi officials in Erbil and Baghdad have protested, requiring a measure of American diplomacy to soothe their resentment. But at least for now, Kurdish officials have viewed their alliance with Turkey as a greater priority in a region still contested by Iran.
''Kurdistan is not against the interests of Turkey,'' Mr. Kirkuki said simply. A surprising feature of Turkey's success is the image it has managed to project in Iraq. On the road from Erbil to Baghdad, its pop culture is everywhere.
Posters of Turkish television serials -- from ''Muhannad and Nour'' to ''Forbidden Love'' -- sell by the tens of thousands. The action series ''Valley of the Wolves'' is a sensation, the lead actor lending his name to cafes. His own posters are computer-altered to show him in traditional Kurdish or Arab dress -- grist for a graduate school seminar on the adaptability of cultural symbols.
Its political influence in Baghdad is no less widespread. Unlike Iran and the United States, it has cultivated ties with virtually every bloc in the country, though relations with Mr. Maliki have proved difficult at times. (At one point, his officials tried to revoke the Turkish ambassador's credentials to enter the Green Zone. ''A misunderstanding,'' Turkish diplomats called it.)
Turkish diplomats stay for two years, unlike the one-year posting for Americans, and over that time, they have managed to reach out to unlikely partners, namely the followers of the populist Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr.
Most of Mr. Sadr's bloc of lawmakers traveled to the Turkish capital, Ankara, for training in parliamentary protocol. In October, Turks were the only diplomats to attend a commemoration the Sadrists held at Baghdad University. ''It is not a group to be excluded,'' one of them said.
Courting the Sadrists, though, is a sideshow to the real prize being sought in the prolonged months of negotiations over a new government.
Turkey strongly backed the fortunes of a coalition led by Ayad Allawi, a secular Shiite politician who enjoys the support of the country's Sunnis. More than any other country, Iraq's Arab neighbors included, it is credited with forging the coalition in the first place.
American and Turkish interests did not always line up on the government's formation, and some diplomats questioned whether American officials were perceived as backing Mr. Maliki too strongly.
''A high-wire act,'' said the senior American official, describing Turkish-American relations generally.
Yet those interests are roughly aligned now, and the degree of power Mr. Allawi's coalition eventually plays in the government will vividly illustrate Turkey's relative weight in Iraq.
''I'd say the Turks put a lot of effort into it,'' the official said, ''and they still are.''
Building Connections
In southernmost Iraq, the old Ottoman quarter in faded Basra is crumbling. Its windows are patched with cinder block, though the stench of sewage still seeps in. Across town is the Basra International Fair Ground, built by Turks and opened in June. Three fairs have already been held there, including one organized in November for Iraq's petroleum industry.
Oil is still king in Iraq, and as much as anything else, underlines Turkey's interests here. The pipeline from Kirkuk, Iraq, to Ceyhan, Turkey, already carries roughly 25 percent of Iraq's oil exports.
The Turks have signed on to the ambitious $11 billion Nabucco gas pipeline project, which may bypass Russia and bring Iraqi gas to Europe. Turkish companies have two stakes in oil contracts, and two more in gas projects, potentially worth billions of dollars. In a land of oil, no place has more than Basra.
Turkish ships offshore provide 250 megawatts of electricity a day. Turkish companies have refurbished the Sheraton Hotel in Basra and are helping to build a 65,000-seat stadium. The Turkish national air carrier is planning four flights a week from Istanbul to Basra; only one is offered now, by Iraqi Airways. Vortex, Crazy Dance and other amusement rides in Basraland are Turkish. So are the sweets sold there.
''No one is working here except Turkey,'' said Mr. Ozcoskun, the Turkish consul in Basra.
It was a bit of overstatement from the garrulous diplomat, but not by much.
''Basra is virgin,'' he said, a phrase Turkish diplomats volunteer about the rest of Iraq, too. ''Who comes first, who establishes first, who makes contacts first will make the most profit in the future. I don't feel any competition right now. Not at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Turkey's influence runs from one end of Iraq to the other. At right, construction at a sports complex in Basra, Iraq. The facility, Sports City, will include a 65,000-seat stadium and several hotels, and is scheduled for completion next year. Turkey has invested in a number of projects across the country, including gas and oil pipelines.
 Iraqis waiting outside the Turkish Consulate in Erbil, in northern Iraq, for visas to visit Turkey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAPS (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); POLITICS (86%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (72%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (69%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



113 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Asks Businesses Which Rules To Rewrite

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Companies spend millions of dollars each year complaining to Congress about burdensome laws and regulations, pressing their concerns in public campaigns and in private meetings. They rarely wait for invitations.
Last month a senior House Republican, Representative Darrell Issa of California, nevertheless dispatched letters to 150 companies, trade groups and research organizations asking them to identify federal regulations that are restraining economic recovery and job growth.
Mr. Issa, incoming chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said the concerns of businesses had been ignored by the Obama administration as it pursued what he described as an unprecedented regulatory expansion. 
The responses have been predictable but, in asking, Mr. Issa also is underscoring the commitment of the new House majority to help business by curtailing government.
''A lot of people have felt shut out of the process the last few years, and they have welcomed the opportunity to give input,'' said Kurt Bardella, a spokesman for Mr. Issa.
The rejoinder from Democrats perhaps also was predictable.
''This is even more evidence that House Republicans are in the business of protecting corporate special interests instead of creating middle-income jobs,'' the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee said in a statement.
Others were harsher: ''Rather than providing a platform for presentation of a corporate wish list, Representative Issa should be subjecting corporate claims to the withering scrutiny he promises for the Obama administration,'' the consumer group Public Citizen said in a statement.'' It's time we ended the Kabuki theater of corporate whining, and got on with the serious business of creating jobs and making America safer and cleaner.''
The Obama administration has indeed significantly expanded federal oversight in areas including finance, health care and food production, and it has increased enforcement of existing regulations in a wider range of areas. The effort has been hailed by consumer groups as a necessary corrective to years of regulatory leniency. But business groups have countered that the measures will reduce profits, impede innovation and limit job creation.
Respondents to Mr. Issa's letter said they generally focused on their own industries. Financial companies cited price controls on debit card transactions. Manufacturers highlighted new oversight of emissions.
But several groups said they saw an important opportunity to focus attention on the cumulative impact of all those regulations.
Rosario A. Palmieri, vice president of regulatory policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, said the weight of regulation had reached an unprecedented level. He noted that Mr. Issa's committee had a broad mandate to turn its investigative resources on almost any subject, providing a rare opportunity for a wide-angle focus.
''We need to look governmentwide at the cost of regulation and its impact on industry. Few take so broad a look at regulation. Mostly they review the individual agencies or program areas. So this particular review could be very promising because of its ability to look at the cumulative burden of regulation,'' Mr. Palmieri said.
In the letters, Mr. Issa said that federal agencies promulgated 43 ''major'' regulations in the last fiscal year, which he said would impose a cost on business of $28 billion. He described that as the largest increase in federal regulation in a single year.
He asked recipients to identify ''existing and proposed regulations that negatively impact the economy and jobs.'' The existence of the letters was reported earlier by Politico.
Mr. Bardella said that Mr. Issa reached out regularly to industry and other groups. He said that the responses to these letters would be compiled and shared with the public, but that it was impossible to say what other action might be taken.
Reed D. Rubinstein, a regulatory counsel at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that the group hoped the letters were an indication that Congress was taking more seriously its responsibility to oversee the work of regulatory agencies.
''What's heartening to me at least, is that Congress is beginning to pay attention again to vetting regulation,'' Mr. Rubinstein said. ''You have a very activist administration and you have statutes that are very broad, allowing agencies to do what they see fit, and it's really a perfect storm. It's really unprecedented.''
Mr. Issa's interest in regulatory burden is part of a broader agenda for his committee that he began to describe in greater detail this week. In a series of Twitter posts, he listed topics including corruption in Afghanistan, the mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the handling of food and drug recalls.
In the posts, Mr. Issa described those topics as an ''initial oversight investigations lineup,'' but Mr. Bardella said Tuesday that those areas would not necessarily become the subjects of investigations. He said they were simply topics of interest.
Other subjects on the list include WikiLeaks and the performance of the commission appointed by Congress to write a history of the financial crisis.
Democrats are gearing up too, passing over two more senior members to select Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, regarded as a more effective foil to Mr. Issa's ambitions, as the new ranking member of the oversight committee.
Mr. Cummings, in turn, hired as his staff director David Rapallo, a veteran Congressional investigator with previous experience working for the committee when Democrats were in the minority.
He was most recently an official on the National Security Council.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Darrell Issa, of California, sent letters seeking the business community's advice on fixing federal regulations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (55%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



114 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Prices Still Soaring In a Toronto District Newly Fashionable

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
TORONTO -- Once a hodgepodge of textile factories and auto lots, the fashion district here has rapidly evolved into upscale restaurants and boutiques in refurbished warehouses and residential units in sleek glass structures.
The roughly 17-square-block area where most of the development is taking place is named for its link to the textile industry. Just west of Toronto's downtown and theater district, the fashion district is bisected along King Street by the city's most popular streetcar line. Development has been centered on the diminutive Victoria Memorial Park, which is surrounded by stylish midrise buildings and industrial brick structures given new life with trendy shops and restaurants.
Even in a Canadian real estate market that has been on a bull run for a decade, the district's robust sales and rapidly rising prices stand out.
''This is the combination SoHo-meatpacking district of Toronto, and its transformation has been just as amazing as the meatpacking district's has been here,'' said Francis J. Greenburger, the chairman of Time Equities Inc. of New York. The company has been involved in developing the district since 2004, when it joined with Freed Developments of Toronto to build an 85-unit condominium building called 66 Portland. 
Since then, Freed has completed five more projects, including one hotel, and has four others being marketed or under construction, frequently in partnership with Time Equities and other partners.
Freed Developments also has plans for its biggest project, consisting of 1,200 units done in alliance with the Canadian development company Minto Group, said Bill Gairdner, Freed's vice president of operations.
''We've been pretty busy scooping up as many sites as we can, so there hasn't been room for too many other developers to come in and compete, though we welcome that,'' Mr. Gairdner said. ''To have these bigger companies coming in and doing these projects is almost a tribute to what we've been doing here.''
The surge of development has not gone unnoticed. In 2008, the Tridel Corporation, one of the largest condo developers in Canada, bought an ailing Starwood Hotels project in the district that would have brought in Aloft and Element hotels. The parking garage had been excavated and poured, and Tridel built 305 condos in a 14-story glass building, calling it Reve.
''We refer to this area as King West, which really is a hot spot for new condominium development in Toronto,'' said James Ritchie, a senior vice president of sales and marketing at Tridel. ''It's the largest submarket in the city for condo development.'' The King West area extends a few blocks west of Bathurst Street.
In the last year, Tridel has sold more than 270 condos in Reve, with only the larger units remaining, Mr. Ritchie said. ''It was very well received in the market,'' he said.
The recent wave of development in the area started in 1996, when Context Development began Twenty Niagara, a 24-unit glass condo building on the park. The city granted an experimental rezoning to residential from industrial, said Howard Cohen, the president of Context.
''An opportunity came up for a really interesting site, because it was right on a park in this quasi-industrial area, but very close to Toronto's core,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''We thought there might be some demand to live downtown in an area that had a lot of character, although it didn't appeal to everybody because it was still full of old industrial buildings and parking lots.''
It took about a year to sell the building's units at prices of about $100 a square foot, he said, but it was successful enough for the city to rezone the district for residential development. Now, developments of hundreds of units sell out in a year, and prices in the fashion district have achieved $700 a square foot, much of that gain taking place in the last four years, Mr. Cohen said.
The average price per square foot for condos in the greater Toronto area is $532, and $814 in Toronto's core, according to the real estate information services company RealNet Canada.
The most recent projects to be completed by Freed Developments are 550 Wellington West, with 336 condos, which is adjacent to a Thompson Hotel with 102 guest rooms. The buildings share a rooftop pool and lounge, similar to the Gansevoort Hotel in New York, along with three restaurants, including a Scarpetta, which opened in New York's meatpacking district in 2008.
Freed Developments has increasingly been including retail space in its residential offerings, Mr. Gairdner said. In a 216-unit project called 75 Portland, with interiors designed by Philippe Starck, retail space is available to rent, and at 650 King, a 236-unit project on the market, plans are to include a high-end steakhouse, he said.
At first buyers were mostly young singles, who have been joined recently by families and new immigrants. Many of the condos are owned by investors.
While the fashion district continues to be an appealing neighborhood to investors and buyers who plan to live there, there are some concerns whether it could survive a bust in Canada's residential real estate. Some real estate experts have estimated that homes in Canada are overvalued by 20 percent, even though banks do not lend to residential development projects that are not at least 65 to 70 percent presold.
Also, under law, buyers must close once they have signed a purchase contract, and the interest on home loans is not tax-deductible. Recourse lending generally applies to developers and to homeowners, who, upon defaulting, are still responsible for any part of the loan the bank cannot recoup by selling the property. Under Canadian law, lenders must insure any mortgage for more than 80 percent of a property's value.
''Although there's a lot of development going on, I wouldn't call it a bubble because these are real buyers, with 20 percent deposits, who are responsible for the purchase even if the price goes down,'' Mr. Cohen said.
Even so, some specialists said that low interest rates artificially stoked Canada's housing market during the recession, which could result in higher foreclosure rates. At the same time, Canadian consumers have taken on increased debt in recent years, while the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, a government-established national housing agency, for a time stretched the amortization on home loans to 40 years from 25 and began insuring loans for which buyers made no down payment.
''Pundits see ongoing demand of a very high number of units over a sustained period of time, but it seems we've experienced that in other markets, and suddenly something happens and markets turn out to be not quite as strong as we thought,'' said Mr. Greenburger of Time Equities.
''Toronto's had a long run,'' he said. ''But we know things don't go in a straight line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Francis J. Greenburger
 Since the redevelopment of the fashion district, top, real estate sales there have been strong and prices have been rising. The Reve building, above, contains 305 condos. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS YOUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TEXTILES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: TIME EQUITIES INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



115 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AFTER SPY SCANDAL, CZECHS WATCH RUSSIA
The news of a Russian spy's infiltrating the highest reaches of government in the Czech Republic is reverberating through that country, where the memories of 40 years of Soviet domination remain strong. Fears are intensifying that Russia, under Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, is seeking to re-establish its influence in its former satellites, using its vast energy resources for economic leverage and a network of spies to ease the way. PAGE A4
National 
A REGION PUSHES BACK
On Illegal Immigration
In an ideological break from the rest of the state, the area in California known as the Inland Empire -- a sprawl of suburbs, old and new, about an hour east of Los Angeles -- has embraced crackdowns on businesses that hire illegal immigrants. PAGE A15
TWEAKING HOUSE RULES
Representative John A. Boehner, who is set to be sworn in as the new speaker of the House, has made serious alterations in the new set of rules that House members will vote on, changes that ostensibly increase the transparency of lawmaking, but also consolidate Republican power over the budget process. PAGE A14
Publisher Alters 'Huck Finn' A12
New York
CUOMO'S TERM TO BEGIN
With Important Jobs Vacant
As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo prepares to unveil an emergency financial reinvention plan for the state in his address to the Legislature, senior positions remain unfilled throughout the very bureaucracy he is trying to tame, raising questions about the pace of his transition. PAGE A17
Business
NEW DEVICE COULD EXPAND
Use of DNA Sequencing
While most DNA sequencers cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and are about the size of a refrigerator, a new smaller DNA sequencer set to sell for just under $50,000 could expand the use of DNA sequencing from specialized centers to smaller labs, and into hospitals and doctors' offices, helping make the technology a standard part of medical practice. PAGE B1
FIGHT OVER AIRLINE TICKETS
American Airlines and two of the four largest online travel agencies, Orbitz and Expedia, are in the midst of a standoff over the fees the carriers must pay the Internet agencies to list its flights. While that is the immediate reason for the dispute, the wider issue is how tickets offered by American Airlines are displayed and marketed. PAGE B1
OFFICE MARKET WAKES UP
After a two-year hiatus, the investment market for office buildings has sprung back to life, with some properties commanding prices reminiscent of the boom years. PAGE B7
Sports
PLAYERS' UNION CLEARS AGENT
Of Giving Loans to Prospect
Major League Baseball's players union has sent a letter to the commissioner's office stating that Scott Boras, the highest-profile agent in the sport, did not violate its regulations when he provided tens of thousands of dollars in loans to a teenaged Dominican prospect, according to several people in baseball briefed on the matter. PAGE B14
Arts
BROADWAY SHOWS SCRAMBLE
To Stay Open in the Winter
Producers of several Broadway shows have taken unusual steps to keep running through the winter theater season, which is traditionally a graveyard for plays that lack audience-drawing stars. PAGE C1
Dining
CHEFS OPEN RESTAURANTS
For a Limited Time Only
Uninterested in old formalities, impatient with the conventional rigmarole and eager simply to put their food in front of people, many chefs are asking themselves how much they can toy with the rest of the equation. For some the answer is stripped-down, pop-up restaurants only meant to be open only temporarily. PAGE D1
Obituaries
JILL HAWORTH, 65
She was a British-born film ingenue in the 1960s, and made her only Broadway appearance as the original Sally Bowles in ''Cabaret.'' PAGE A19
OP-ED
William D. Cohan PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); AIRLINES (87%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (87%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (86%); DNA (86%); GENOMICS (86%); OFFICE PROPERTY (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HOSPITALS (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (66%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (62%); BASEBALL (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (61%); SUBURBS (54%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (52%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (52%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



116 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: 2 Veterans Leave Village Voice, Whose Muckraking They Defined

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
What becomes of New York's most formidable muckraking paper when two of its greatest muckrakers are gone?
The Village Voice, the granddaddy of alternative weeklies, which enlivened political and investigative journalism in New York through its scrappy, hold-nothing-sacred approach, has lost Wayne Barrett and Tom Robbins, two journalists who helped define the paper's modern era.
Mr. Barrett's departure was a sign of the financial strain facing The Voice and print media: he said he was let go because he was too expensive to keep on staff. Mr. Robbins's exit showed how unpalatable the professional choices facing journalists today can be: he said he would quit the paper at the end of January in a show of solidarity with Mr. Barrett, despite having no other job lined up. 
The Voice without either man, some prominent New Yorkers said, is difficult to imagine. And their leaving raises questions about what kind of future the paper has in the city whose politics it fermented and culture it shaped.
''With the loss of Wayne and Tom, they lost Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle,'' said Don Forst, who was editor of The Voice from 1996 to 2005 and edited the work of both men
Mr. Forst said their departures left the paper, which had already been downsized considerably in the last decade, greatly diminished. ''It was a great institution for what it was,'' he said. ''It was not The Times. It wasn't The Post. It was The Village Voice. And I think it was the role model for all folk alternative papers. I don't know what they have left.''
Mr. Barrett has written for The Voice since 1973, was earning a six-figure salary and had minimal expenses and an unpaid staff of interns. He announced his departure in a column published on the paper's Web site on Tuesday morning. His last day was Dec. 31.
''I have written, by my own inexact calculation, more column inches than anyone in the history of The Voice. These will be my last,'' he wrote. ''I am 65 and a half now, and it is time for something new.'' He will become a fellow at The Nation Institute, a liberal nonprofit media group.
Mr. Robbins, in an interview, said he could not bear the thought of staying on at The Voice without Mr. Barrett. ''I think he's a big loss for the paper, which is why I decided I thought I would move on as well,'' Mr. Robbins said. ''And I wish the paper well.''
Tony Ortega, the editor of The Voice, said it was painful to see both reporters leave. But he insisted there was no lingering animosity on anyone's part.
''It is what it is,'' a subdued Mr. Ortega said in an interview, adding that the financial pressures on the paper had forced him into a difficult position. ''By now I think we expected the economy to be doing a little better. So I'm a little disappointed we haven't grown. But we're holding our own.''
The paper was in trouble before New Times Media, a national chain of alternative weeklies, merged with it in 2006, and it has been reduced considerably since then. Mr. Ortega said he had to cut about a half-dozen positions when the economy collapsed in 2008 -- a small number but one that made a significant dent in a newsroom that now has only about 25 people.
Tumult in the editor's chair has been just as disruptive. When Mr. Ortega, the former editor of The Broward-Palm Beach New Times, took over in 2007, he became The Voice's fifth editor in little more than a year.
But through it all, Mr. Barrett and Mr. Robbins were fixtures -- not only of their storied newspaper but also of the New York City press corps. Mr. Robbins, who first worked at The Voice in the mid-1980s, then departed for The Daily News and returned in 2000, is known for an encyclopedic knowledge of city politics and a big heart (he donated one of his kidneys to a friend). He earned a reputation as an equal opportunity exposer of corruption, regardless of political affiliation.
Mr. Barrett was also known for his digging. He was the first to uncover that Rudolph W. Giuliani's father had gone to prison for robbing a milkman at gunpoint, and was once barred from interviewing former Mayor Edward I. Koch, the subject of a book Mr. Barrett co-wrote with Jack Newfield. It was titled -- unflatteringly for Mr. Koch -- ''City for Sale: Ed Koch and the Betrayal of New York.''
Mr. Koch, asked to reflect on Mr. Barrett's work on Tuesday, said, ''In terms of the quality of his reportage: superb.''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was characteristically less effusive. ''I can't say we've always agreed, but Wayne's voice will be missed,'' the mayor said.
Despite losing both men, Mr. Ortega said his staff was highly capable and well equipped to carry on the paper's proud tradition. Mr. Robbins will eventually be replaced, but Mr. Barrett will not. ''People are just going to soldier on and do their stuff,'' Mr. Ortega said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Wayne Barrett, right, was let go, Tom Robbins said he would quit this month in a show of support. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (91%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



117 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Panel Unveils Ways to Improve New Jersey's Public Universities

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
A task force appointed by Gov. Chris Christie to suggest ways of improving New Jersey's public colleges and universities made dozens of recommendations on Tuesday, including lifting tuition caps and reorganizing the long-troubled University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. 
The recommendations came in a report halfway through a fiscal year in which Mr. Christie cut state operating aid for higher education by $130 million as he sought to close an $11 billion budget gap. But he has pledged to increase financing for the state's colleges and universities as the economy improves.
''In many ways, this report confirms what we all know: New Jersey's higher education system is in need of focused improvement if it is truly going to serve our students and prepare our state for the future,'' the governor said in a statement. He appeared with the task force chairman, former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, in a news conference in Trenton on the recommendations.
In an echo of a battle just waged and lost in New York, the New Jersey task force urged the state to let Rutgers and the other public colleges and universities set their own tuition levels ''appropriate to raise the funds needed to support their operations and maintain educational excellence.'' In New York, Gov. David A. Paterson and officials of the state university system had sought such a change, but it was blocked by the Legislature.
A spokesman for Mr. Christie, Kevin Roberts, said after the news conference that the governor would evaluate the issue. The governor has already endorsed a plan to give college administrations authority to negotiate labor agreements. ''It needs to be addressed in a holistic way that gives college presidents more control and flexibility over management of their institutions,'' Mr. Roberts said.
Other recommendations in the 140-page report, which was given to Mr. Christie on Dec. 1 but made public on Tuesday, included the creation of a five-member council on higher education. While acknowledging the current budget crisis, the task force also called on the state to increase financing as soon as possible, by issuing bonds. The report did not specify a sum.
Mr. Christie signed two executive orders during the conference, one to create the council and another to form an advisory committee focused solely on graduate medical education.
The task force proposed merging some schools of the University of Medicine and Dentistry with Rutgers, a move that has previously been rejected. As the United States attorney for New Jersey, Mr. Christie pursued criminal fraud charges against the University of Medicine and Dentistry, which was faced with financial and Medicaid abuses. But the school agreed to a federal monitor to avoid prosecution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); DENTISTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BONDS (64%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



118 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: ON IMMIGRATION, BIRTHRIGHT FIGHT IN U.S. IS LOOMING

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
NOGALES, Ariz. -- Of the 50 or so women bused to this border town on a recent morning to be deported back to Mexico, Inez Vasquez stood out. Eight months pregnant, she had tried to trudge north in her fragile state, even carrying scissors with her in case she gave birth in the desert and had to cut the umbilical cord.
''All I want is a better life,'' she said after the Border Patrol found her hiding in bushes on the Arizona side of the border with her husband, her young son and her very pronounced abdomen.
The next big immigration battle centers on illegal immigrants' offspring, who are granted automatic citizenship like all other babies born on American soil. Arguing for an end to the policy, which is rooted in the 14th Amendment of the Constitution, immigration hard-liners describe a wave of migrants like Ms. Vasquez stepping across the border in the advanced stages of pregnancy to have what are dismissively called ''anchor babies.'' 
The reality at this stretch of the border is more complex, with hospitals reporting some immigrants arriving to give birth in the United States but many of them frequent border crossers with valid visas who have crossed the border legally to take advantage of better medical care. Some are even attracted by an electronic billboard on the Mexican side that advertises the services of an American doctor and says bluntly, ''Do you want to have your baby in the U.S.?''
Women like Ms. Vasquez, who was preparing for a desert delivery, are rare.
Still, Arizona -- whose tough law granting the police the power to detain illegal immigrants is tied up in the courts -- may again take the lead in what is essentially an effort to redefine what it means to be an American. This time, though, Arizona lawmakers intend to join with legislators from other states to force the issue before the Supreme Court.
This coalition of lawmakers will unveil its exact plans on Wednesday in Washington, but people involved in drafting the legislation say they have decided against the painstaking process of amending the Constitution. Since the federal government decides who is to be deemed a citizen, the lawmakers are considering instead a move to create two kinds of birth certificates in their states, one for the children of citizens and another for the children of illegal immigrants.
The theory is that this could spark a flurry of lawsuits that might resolve the legal conflict in their favor.
''This is not a far-out, extremist position,'' said John Kavanagh, one of the Arizona legislators who is leading an effort that has been called just that. ''Only a handful of countries in the world grant citizenship based on the GPS location of the birth.''
Most scholars of the Constitution consider the states' effort to restrict birth certificates patently unconstitutional. ''This is political theater, not a serious effort to create a legal test,'' said Gabriel J. Chin, a law professor at the University of Arizona whose grandfather immigrated to the United States from China at a time when ethnic Chinese were excluded from the country. ''It strikes me as unwise, un-American and unconstitutional.''
The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, was a repudiation of the Supreme Court's 1857 ruling, in Dred Scott v. Sandford, that people of African descent could never be American citizens. The amendment said citizenship applied to ''all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof.''
In 1898, the Supreme Court, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, interpreted the citizenship provision as applying to a child born in the United States to a Chinese immigrant couple.
Still, some conservatives contend that the issue is unsettled. Kris Kobach, the incoming secretary of state in Kansas and a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City who has helped draft many of the tough immigration regulations across the country, argued that the approach the states were planning would hold up to scrutiny.
''I can't really say much more without showing my hand,'' Mr. Kobach said in an e-mail. ''But, yes, I am confident that the law will stand up in court.''
The legal theories are lost on Laura Gomez, 24, who crossed into Arizona from Mexico five years ago while expecting and is now pregnant with her second child. But like many other pregnant women in Arizona who are without papers, she has been following the issue with anxiety.
''It doesn't seem fair to just change the rules like that,'' Ms. Gomez said.
Despite being called ''anchor babies,'' the children of illegal immigrants born in the United States cannot actually prevent deportation of their parents. It is not until they reach the age of 21 that the children are able to file paperwork to sponsor their parents for legal immigration status. The parents remain vulnerable until that point.
Maria Ledezma knows as much. Just off a bus that deported her from Phoenix to the Mexico border town of Nogales, she was sobbing as she explained the series of events that led her to be separated from her three daughters, ages 4, 7 and 9, all American citizens.
''I never imagined being here,'' said Ms. Ledezma, 25, who was brought to Phoenix from Mexico as a toddler. ''I'll bet right now that my girls are asking, 'Where's Mom?' ''
Blended families like hers are a reality across the United States. A studyreleased in August by the Pew Hispanic Center found that about 340,000 children were born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008 and became instant citizens.
In April, Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, one of those pushing for Congressional action on the issue, stirred controversy when he suggested that children born in the United States to illegal immigrants should be deported with their parents until the birthright citizenship policy was changed.
''And we're not being mean,'' Mr. Hunter told a Tea Party rally in Southern California. ''We're just saying it takes more than walking across the border to become an American citizen. It's what's in our souls.''
Immigrant advocates say intolerance is driving the measure. ''They call themselves patriots, but they pick and choose which parts of the Constitution they support,'' said Lydia Guzman, a Latino activist in Phoenix. ''They're fear-mongerers. They're clowns.''
Like many states, Arizona is suffering a severe budget crisis, prompting even some lawmakers who have supported immigration restrictions in the past to question whether it is the right time for another divisive immigration bill. They say the state's fiscal issues need to be resolved before Arizona jumps back into a controversial immigration debate.
''I was born and raised in New York,'' responded Mr. Kavanagh, who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the Arizona House. ''I can ride a subway, drink coffee, read the newspaper and make sure my pockets are not picked all at the same time.''
Scholars who have studied migration say it is the desire for better-paying jobs, not a passport for their children, that is the main motivator for people to leave their homes for the United States.
Even Ms. Vasquez, who was preparing for a desert delivery, agrees with that. While she preferred to have her child be born in the United States, she said, it was the prospect of a better economic future, with or without papers, that had prompted her and her family to cross when they did. ''I'll try again -- but once the baby's born,'' she said.
Online Correction: January 4, 2011, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the year that the Supreme Court, in United States v. Wong Kim Ark, applied the citizenship provision to a child born in the United States to Chinese immigrants; it was 1898.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Gomez, a pregnant illegal immigrant from Mexico, in Scottsdale, Ariz. She came to the United States to find work, she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (75%); LITIGATION (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



119 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Investors Pause Despite Mostly Positive Reports

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A rally that pushed stocks up nearly 7 percent in December paused Tuesday as traders shrugged off a pickup in factory orders and sales gains at General Motors and Ford. 
Stocks started with gains but mostly fell throughout the day, even after a better-than-expected report on factory orders for November.
Ryan Detrick, a senior analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research, said investors were holding off after a sharp jump in stocks on Monday.
''We had a big start to the year yesterday,'' Mr. Detrick said.
The Dow rose 20.43 points, or 0.2 percent, to end the day at 11,691.18. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipped 1.67 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,270.20. The Nasdaq lost 10.27 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,681.25.
Investors also received minutes from the Federal Reserve's last policy meeting in December. Fed officials said signs of economic growth were not enough to cut back its $600 billion bond-buying program, which is aimed at encouraging spending by keeping interest rates low. Fed officials said more time was needed before they would consider changing their plans.
Automakers reported December and year-end sales figures. General Motors rose 2.3 percent, to $37.90, after reporting that its sales in the United States rose 6.3 percent last year. Ford Motor gained 0.8 percent, to $17.38.
''These companies finally have the right cost structure and all the players on board to make them profitable businesses,'' said Frank Ingarra, a manager at Hennessy Funds. ''The companies that survived are benefiting from facing less competition.''
Several grocery store chains, including Supervalu, Safeway and Whole Foods Market, all fell more than 3 percent after a round of analyst downgrades.
Alcoa jumped 4.6 percent to $16.52 to lead the 30 stocks that make up the Dow. McDonald's lost 3 percent to $74.31.
Treasury prices were mixed after the Fed minutes were released. The Treasury's 10-year note rose 1/32, to 94 4/32. The yield was unchanged at 3.33 percent.
Oil prices dropped Tuesday after climbing above a 26-month high, as investors wondered if the price of crude had climbed too high too fast.
After weeks of mostly positive global economic news, the price of oil has risen over the last month from about $88 a barrel. ''The mentality has just been buy it, buy it, buy it,'' said Tom Bentz, analyst at BNP Paribas Commodity Futures. ''The question everyone has is, How much further do we have to go before we start stunting the economic recovery?''
Spot oil prices lost $2.17 to settle at $89.38 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Gene McGillian, an analyst at Tradition Energy, said he believed that the momentum would continue to carry oil prices toward $95 to $100 a barrel. ''What you're starting to see is that we might have gotten a bit overextended, so more vulnerable to profit-taking,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); SPOT MARKET (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); ALCOA INC (53%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%); BNP PARIBAS SA (50%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); WFM (NASDAQ) (53%); BNP (PAR) (50%); BNP (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



120 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Part of California Takes On Illegal Hiring

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
MURRIETA, Calif. -- Protests erupted across Southern California last year when Arizona adopted its tough immigration law: immigrant rights advocates staged rallies in cities like San Diego and Santa Barbara; Los Angeles severed economic ties with Arizona.
But just 50 miles east of Los Angeles, a handful of cities have started crackdowns similar to those in Arizona on businesses that hire illegal immigrants.
In what may be the single most Democratic state in the country, with a huge, fast-growing Latino population, the area known as the Inland Empire -- a sprawl of suburbs, old and new -- has emerged as a pocket of ideological resistance in a state that has grown increasingly averse to crackdowns on immigration. 
Late last month, Murrieta became the fifth Inland Empire city to require all businesses to check the legal status of new employees with E-Verify, an online federal government system designed to confirm employment eligibility. Businesses that do not comply could lose their licenses.
Just north of a highway immigration checkpoint, Murrieta and Temecula, where an E-Verify ordinance took effect on Saturday, are cities with white-majority populations, surrounded by agricultural wine-growing areas. With unemployment near 15 percent in much of the Inland Empire, locals say illegal immigrants have inundated industries like fast-food and construction, leaving American citizens unable to find jobs. Their complaints echo some of those that helped lead to the crackdown in Arizona.
''We're a conservative area, and we've had an outcry from our citizens,'' said Mayor Jeff Comerchero of Temecula. ''Americans should be filling American jobs.''
In most parts of the country, E-Verify is mandatory only for businesses that have federal contracts. But Mr. Comerchero and others have embraced it as a way to curb illegal immigration by reducing the lure of jobs.
Immigrant rights advocates question the accuracy of the system, and a law mandating its use in Arizona has been challenged in the United States Supreme Court.
Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, said increasing voluntary use of E-Verify had led to a spike in abuse of illegal workers.
''When undocumented workers are laid off, they still find employment,'' Ms. Salas said. ''But they often end up in underground cash economies, where we see some of the worst labor abuses.''
Efforts to require E-Verify elsewhere in California have largely failed. The State Legislature approved a bill to prohibit making the system a requirement, but Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, vetoed it.
California has for decades been at the forefront of the churning debate on immigration, and changes in policies and public opinion have mirrored the state's increasingly Latino makeup.
Not long ago, California had some of the nation's toughest immigration laws. In 1994, voters approved Proposition 187, which denied illegal immigrants most government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care. The measure was later ruled unconstitutional.
Since then, however, the state's demographics have shifted, with Latinos now making up 37 percent of the population.
Jane Junn, a professor of political science at the University of Southern California, said the growth of the Latino population had made hard-line immigration laws no longer politically viable in California. Republicans who advocated punishment for businesses that hire illegal immigrants, like last year's senatorial candidate, Carly Fiorina, failed in statewide races, in part, Professor Junn said, because of their immigration policies.
''The state of California is very progressive on immigration relative to the rest of the country, even Republicans,'' Professor Junn said. ''Attitudes have changed tremendously since 1994, but the demographics have also changed dramatically.''
Temecula and Murrieta have Latino populations about half as large in percentage as the state as a whole. Still, conservatives hope they can pass a similar E-Verify law covering all of the Inland Empire's Riverside County, whose population is more than 40 percent Latino. If they succeed, the law could have implications for agricultural industries that have long employed many immigrants, legal and illegal.
Brian Nestande, the Republican assemblyman who represents Temecula and Murrieta, said he supported use of E-Verify but would not commit to backing a requirement.
''A lot of industries here have run on illegal immigration,'' Mr. Nestande said. ''Work is here and available, and that's a magnet for illegal immigrants. But I would like to see a more comprehensive approach, which also involves securing our border, and dealing with people who are already here whether we like it or not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); APPROVALS (60%); SUBURBS (55%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (53%)

COMPANY: INLAND EMPIRE NATIONAL BANK (RIVERSIDE CALIFORNIA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



121 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By ANITA RAGHAVAN, CHRIS V. NICHOLSON and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
EARLY EXIT David Tepper, below, the manager of the $3 billion Thoroughbred Fund, is making a magnanimous gesture: he is allowing investors, who committed their money for three years, an early way out. 
Mr. Tepper's move is remarkable in an industry that has come under fire for suspending investor redemptions. During the financial crisis, many funds with subpar performance put up so-called gates that prevented investors from taking their money. ANITA RAGHAVAN
FORFEITING PAY The Wilmington Trust Corporation, Delaware's largest bank, sent its chief executive, Donald Foley, a letter on Dec. 22 stating that he would have to forfeit about $2 million in pay, according to a regulatory filing in late December.
The reason: his bonus violated the Treasury Department's compensation rules for banks that received taxpayer bailout money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. BEN PROTESS PROMOTION Jim Rosenthal, below, has been named chief operating officer of Morgan Stanley, James P. Gorman, the firm's chief executive, said in a memo on Tuesday. Mr. Rosenthal had overseen technology and operations before being named head of corporate strategy in December 2009 as Mr. Gorman prepared to take the reins of the firm from John J. Mack.
BLOCKING TAKEOVERS A plan that Hermes adopted to thwart a takeover effort by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton will be considered by French regulators on Thursday, a person with knowledge of the matter said.
In December, Hermes said it would create a holding company to house 50 percent of the company's shares, giving it the first right to buy stock from family members who wish to sell. The move was created to block outsiders from acquiring the stock.
Under French law, any group that comes to hold more than a third of a company must make an offer for the rest of its shares. Hermes is asking for a waiver. CHRIS V. NICHOLSON
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%); WILMINGTON TRUST CORP (71%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (69%); JOHN J MACK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (71%) FRANCE (75%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



122 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Victory Alone Does Not A Mandate Make

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
The word ''mandate'' gets thrown around a lot in politics these days, and you can expect to hear it more in the next few weeks, as the conservative majority in the House declares war on the profligate ways of Washington. Tea Party leaders are claiming a clear mandate from the November elections, and House Republicans -- whose first acts will be pulled directly from the Tea Party manifesto -- apparently agree.
Recent history would suggest, though, that new majorities are inclined to misread or inflate their governing mandates. And it's a mistake the Tea Party types are likely to make, too, if they fail to distinguish between the desire for change, on one hand, and the means to achieve it, on the other. 
Those Tea Party activists who felt betrayed during the lame-duck session of Congress last month, when Republicans teamed with outgoing Democrats to pass a compromise tax plan and several other measures, have to be heartened by the way Republicans plan to open the 112th Congress. First up on the agenda is a symbolic reading of the Constitution, along with a not-so-symbolic change in the rules that would subject all legislation to a test of constitutional authority.
With that out of the way, Speaker John A. Boehner and his troops are set to vote for a repeal of President Obama's health care law, and they're talking about making good on a promise to cut as much as $100 billion from the federal budget (or at least that's the starting point in a longer negotiation). Some new Republicans, prodded by their Tea Party backers, are signaling that they may try to block the House from raising the federal debt ceiling, which could lead to a standoff in Washington not unlike the 1995 government shutdown.
All of this implies that Republicans think the voters are with their most ardent activists on the economic issues of the day. And there is a persuasive case to be made that they're right about this, at least as far as the conservative critique of federal spending is concerned.
In exit polling in November, 56 percent of voters said government was doing too much that should be left to the private sector and individuals, compared with 38 percent who thought it should be doing more. According to an analysis by the Pew Research Center, the proportion of self-described conservatives reached its highest level in 20 years.
In a memo based on his own post-election survey, David Winston, a pollster who works with House Republicans, found that 53 percent of independent voters in the midterm elections thought favorably of the Tea Party, versus 39 percent who took a dimmer view of the movement. ''While some Tea Party candidates struggled individually,'' Mr. Winston concluded, ''the movement's focus on fiscal conservatism impacted the political discourse on the issues that eventually decided the election.''
Even so, leveling an indictment of government only gets you so far, even when it resonates. To say that the Tea Party won a mandate is to imply that the public registered approval for its specific remedies for changing government as well. And here the picture is considerably blurrier, especially since neither the Tea Party nor the Republican Party laid out a very specific program for cutting spending during the campaign.
In a Pew poll from December, 70 percent of voters said they saw the federal deficit as a major problem that needed to be addressed now -- a powerful show of support for the Tea Party argument. But sizable majorities of voters were against, say, revoking the home interest mortgage deduction, or adding any new taxes, or raising the Social Security retirement age, or scaling back federal financing for education or road building.
In other words, while voters endorsed the Tea Party ideal of a radically more parsimonious federal government, they haven't yet gotten their heads around the excruciating choices it entails -- or even the relatively easy ones. And that's not really much of a mandate, when you think about it.
Of course, no party leader or strategist ever wants to admit -- even to himself -- that he owes his victory solely to the public's disdain for the status quo, any more than a great general would want to believe that he won the decisive battle because his enemy ran out of bullets. Once you win, the human tendency is to credit the gravitational force of your own ideas, to assume that you made a more compelling and more substantive case than you actually did.
And this is how new majorities often get into trouble. It's how Republicans, newly empowered in 1995, came to force President Bill Clinton into a test of wills over the government shutdown, believing that voters trusted them more than Mr. Clinton and wanted them to rein in the administration by any means necessary. (As it turned out, not so much.)
It's also how Democrats elected in 2006 and 2008 came to enact a series of expensive new programs without ever really bothering to explain to the public why such investments were necessary or how they would be paid for. They wanted to believe the voters had risen up to demand a resurgence of liberal government, when in fact all the evidence suggested that all anxious voters really wanted was a government that seemed to work.
Opposition parties rarely want to lay out difficult choices for voters in this era of more or less perennial discontent, and it's hard to blame them. Why take the chance of alienating Americans who are already inclined to dislodge your opponent by producing a bunch of specific, divisive proposals?
What this means, though, is that even the most resounding mandate is likely to be a limited one. Which is why Republicans who would refuse to raise the debt limit may find out that the only thing voters like less than a gushing federal spigot is being forced to shut it off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



123 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Factory Orders Rise Unexpectedly in November

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- New orders received by American factories unexpectedly rose in November, and orders excluding transportation recorded their largest gain in eight months, according to a government report on Tuesday that pointed to underlying strength in manufacturing. 
The Commerce Department said orders for manufactured goods increased 0.7 percent after dropping by a revised 0.7 percent in October.
Economists polled by Reuters had forecast that factory orders would slip 0.1 percent in November from a previously reported 0.9 percent decline in October. Orders have risen in four of the last five months, and Tuesday's data was the latest to offer evidence the recovery was now firmly on a sustainable path.
Manufacturing has been the star performer during the recovery from this recession, the worst since the 1930s, and continues to expand even as businesses are starting to pull back in rebuilding their inventories.
On Monday the Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity climbed to a seven-month high in December, hoisted by sturdy gains in new orders and production.
The Commerce Department report showed that orders excluding transportation increased 2.4 percent in November, the highest since March, after a 0.1 percent gain the previous month.
Unfilled orders at American factories increased 0.6 percent in November after rising 0.7 percent in October. Shipments increased 0.8 percent, rising for a third consecutive month, while inventories gained 0.8 percent after rising 1.1 percent in October.
The department revised durable goods orders for November to show a much smaller 0.3 percent fall rather than the previously reported 1.3 percent drop. Excluding transportation, orders for durable goods increased a bigger 3.6 percent in November instead of 2.4 percent.
Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, considered a measure of business confidence, rose 2.6 percent after a 3.2 percent decline in October.
Recent data ranging from retail sales to manufacturing suggest the economy gained momentum as 2010 wound down. But those signs will not mean much unless they are accompanied by a pick up in employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); FACTORY ORDERS (97%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); NEW ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (71%); SHIPMENTS (67%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



124 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Bloomsbury Auctions Rethinks New York

BYLINE: By EVE M. KAHN

 BODY:
Bloomsbury Auctions, the London company that bills itself as the world's leading auctioneer of rare books and manuscripts, opened a New York branch with great fanfare three years ago, but it appears to be struggling in an economy that has not been kind to book dealers. Several specialists in the New York office, which fills two floors on West 48th Street, have left for other companies, including Sotheby's, Bonhams and Doyle, and no Bloomsbury sales for 2011 are scheduled in New York. 
Rupert Powell, the company's deputy chairman, said in an interview that the branch was not closing. ''We're just having a strategic review about what we decide to do,'' he said, adding, ''I can't really give you any more clues.''
Recent auction results have been disappointing. At a Dec. 8 sale of Americana a third of the lots did not sell. Sale prices were as low as $25, for a signed Grace Paley short story collection (the estimate was $80 to $120). A sale scheduled this month with hundreds of pieces of early Disney ephemera, including a Bambi ashtray and a storefront design proposal labeled ''Four Suggested Dumbo Window Treatments,'' has been canceled.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); RETAILERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2011



125 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: In Wake of Spy Scandal, Czechs Keep a Wary Eye on Russia

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Jan Krcmar contributed reporting from Prague, and Clifford J. Levy from Moscow.

 BODY:
PRAGUE -- It could be the plot of a Cold War thriller: a Russian spy working undercover as a prison psychologist seduces an attractive female army major, dubbed the Czech Mata Hari, who passes on state secrets from three senior generals. The spy flees the country. The generals resign in disgrace.
But in what some here have called the worst espionage scandal in the Czech Republic since 1989, the Rakhardzho affair -- named for Robert Rakhardzho, a wily Russian spy -- appears to contain elements of both fact and fiction. Distinguishing the two is difficult, but the tale includes a subplot involving one of the largest nuclear power deals in Czech history, an intricate web of deceit and a cast of characters that has reached the highest levels of the army and government.
''It is disturbing to many Czechs that Russian spies are working here, influencing us, even as we don't even realize it,'' said Jaroslav Spurny, a leading investigative journalist who has written widely on the case. ''We got rid of those people and now they are coming back.'' 
The scandal, which began to surface last summer, is still reverberating in a country where the memory of 40 years of communist rule overseen by the Soviet Union remains strong. Fears are intensifying that Russia, under Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, is seeking to re-establish its influence in its former satellites, using its vast energy resources -- and a network of Russian spies masquerading as diplomats and businessmen -- to dominate the region.
Mr. Rakhardzho did not return phone calls and is believed to have fled the country. But details gleaned from investigators and people who knew him paint a picture of a charming and acutely intelligent man adept at deception and camouflage.
The Rakhardzho case has eerie parallels to those accused of being Russian sleeper agents arrested in the United States this summer. Like the spies in America, who quietly infiltrated suburban life, Robert Rakhardzho operated deep in the fabric of his adopted country for years, gaining Czech nationality, speaking fluent Czech and enjoying weekend mountain treks near the Polish border, according to investigators.
Fears about shadowy Russian influence have intensified in recent weeks with ferocious jockeying over a $20 billion project to build several nuclear reactors at Temelin, in the south of the country, that has pitted a consortium led by a subsidiary of Rosatom, the Russian state nuclear company, against separate bids by Westinghouse, which is owned by Toshiba, and Areva of France.
The government said in October that the winner would be chosen in 2013. State security officials despair that Russia will do whatever it takes to emerge on top of what has become a highly symbolic showdown between pro-Russian and pro-Western forces in the country.
That has set off alarms among the intelligence community that Prague -- with its large Russian-speaking community, Slavic culture, and Russian-linked energy industries -- is becoming a hotbed of Russian espionage not seen since the Cold War.
Nestled next to the imposing Prague Castle, home to the Czech president, are anonymous tree-lined streets with elaborate mansions that serve as offices for Russian captains of industry. Nearby, gaggles of well-heeled Russian tourists shop for luxury goods before heading to Grand Cafe Slavia, a meeting place for artists, intellectuals and dissidents since the 19th century that is also believed to be a favorite of agents and would-be spies.
The motives of Russian espionage, intelligence officials insist, are also geopolitical: the Czech Republic, a staunch ally of the United States, recently attracted the ire of the Kremlin for agreeing to allow Washington to install part of a proposed missile defense system in the Czech Republic.
Fears of Russian infiltration have been swirling for years. In the summer of 2009 the Czech Republic evicted two alleged Russian agents from the embassy in Prague. A June report by BIS, the domestic intelligence agency, warned that up to 150 people connected to Russian intelligence were operating in the country, coordinated by the Russian ambassador to Prague.
Aleksei Fedotov, the former Russian ambassador, who left Prague in September, has dismissed the allegations. In an interview with the Czech daily Pravo in September he called the reports that Russian spies were operating in the Czech Republic a ''media fiction produced on political order.''
Other Russian business executives call the case a pretext by right-wing opponents of the Kremlin to bait Russians in order to exclude them from lucrative business deals like Temelin.
The son of a Russian archivist mother and an Indonesian father, Mr. Rakhardzo moved to Prague in 1992 to study psychology, and married a Polish woman. Investigators believe he was recruited by the Russian secret service in 2003 while on vacation in Crete.
He worked as a psychologist at the Jirice prison on the outskirts of Prague, conducting psychological profiles of police and prison officials, and using his links to the Interior Ministry to cultivate high-level contacts.
His mission, investigators say, was to collect compromising information on Czech military, economic and political officials to make them susceptible to blackmail. They say he received logistical and financial support via Berlin rather than Prague to avoid detection by Czech counterintelligence agents.
Mr. Rakhardzho achieved a breakthrough in 2004 in a psychology class when he befriended Major Vladimira Odehnalova, chief of staff to the three senior generals, and offered to be her academic adviser. Investigators allege that Ms. Odehnalova, 39 and married, was passing on information about the generals' families, hobbies, finances and personalities, ostensibly unaware that Mr. Rakhardzho was a spy.
While it is unclear what exactly Mr. Rakhardzo achieved, the fact that he was able to infiltrate the highest echelons of the Czech establishment has alarmed the intelligence community here. ''In terms of depth, intensity, aggressiveness and sheer number of operations, the Russian intelligence services have no competition on Czech territory,'' noted the report by the domestic intelligence agency.
Ms. Odehnalova -- dubbed by the media the ''Czech Mata Hari'' after the Dutch courtesan accused of spying and executed in France during World War I -- declined to comment. But in an interview with the daily Mlada Fronta Dnes, she said she had no idea that Mr. Rakhardzho was a spy. Describing him as ''tall, educated, cultured'' and ''a bit mysterious,'' she said the two were friends, went to the movies, had dinner and talked over five years, but that she had never divulged classified information.
She said the revelation that he was a spy destroyed her life. ''My life disintegrated like a house of cards,'' she told the newspaper. ''I will never forgive myself for my share of guilt in destroying the careers of the generals.''
Intelligence experts say Mr. Rakhardzho, sensing he was being tailed, fled the Czech Republic in September 2009 for Moscow. He left in such a hurry, they say, that his wife, abandoned with two children, filed a missing persons report with the Czech police.
Two months later, Ms. Odehnalova and two of the generals -- Josef Sedlak, who was a military representative to the NATO command in Europe, and Josef Proks, deputy general for the Chief of Staff -- suddenly resigned in mysterious circumstances. The third, Frantisek Hrabal, head of the Military Office of the President, left his position in March. The Defense Ministry has said that they left at their own request.
In a rare interview in late November, Mr. Sedlak, who has gone underground since the scandal erupted, vigorously denied that he had passed on any state secrets. He said he had never met Mr. Rakhardzo and that the first he ever heard of him was in November 2009 when he was summoned to the office of the then defense minister, Martin Bartak, informed that he was under suspicion and asked to resign.
He said he was told that his phone had been tapped and that there was damning evidence implicating him in breaching state security, evidence he says he was never shown.
Mr. Sedlak said he believed the Rakhardzho case was a setup aimed at purging him and his fellow generals. Other military officials say the minister, who later resigned in an unrelated incident, was seeking a scapegoat after a hugely embarrassing incident in 2009 in which several senior Czech officers stationed in Afghanistan had been caught wearing Nazi SS insignia on their helmets.
''I never saw one shred of evidence against me, not one, ever,'' Mr. Sedlak said, saying that his relations with Ms. Odehnalova were purely professional. ''I don't buy this idea that Ms. Odehnalova is some kind of Mata Hari. This idea that she was having a relationship with three generals is a story for a novel.''
Reporting was contributed by Jan Krcmar in Prague and Clifford J. Levy from Moscow.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Grand Cafe Slavia, a meeting place in Prague for artists, intellectuals and dissidents since the 19th century, is reputed to draw spies and would-be spies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILAN JAROS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)
Robert Rakhardzho, a Russian spy, is said to have fled for Moscow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY POLICE ARCHIVE, CZECH REPUBLIC) (A4)
 The Russian Embassy in Prague. Accused of spying, two embassy officials were ejected in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILAN JAROS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); WRITERS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); ARRESTS (62%); SUBURBS (50%)

COMPANY: AREVA SA (57%); TOSHIBA CORP (51%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (57%); TOS (LSE) (51%); 6502 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (57%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (57%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



126 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL KILLING ADDS TO TURMOIL WITHIN PAKISTAN

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD and CARLOTTA GALL; Waqar Gillani contributed reporting from Lahore, Pakistan, and Mark Landler and Eric Schmitt from Washington.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- The assassination of an outspoken secular politician by one of his elite police guards on Tuesday plunged the government deeper into political crisis and highlighted the threat of militant infiltration even within the nation's security forces.
The killing of Salman Taseer, the prominent governor of Punjab Province, was another grim reminder of the risks that Pakistani leaders take to oppose religious extremists, at a time when the United States is pushing Pakistan for greater cooperation in the war in Afghanistan by cracking down on militant groups like the Taliban.
Mr. Taseer, 65, a successful businessman and publisher of a liberal English-language daily newspaper, was exceptional, even within the secular-minded Pakistan Peoples Party, for his vocal opposition to the religious parties and the extremism they spread. He was imprisoned in the 1980s under the military dictator Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq for it and was still opposing the religious parties 30 years later.
He recently took up a campaign to repeal Pakistan's contentious blasphemy laws, which were passed under General Zia as a way to promote Islam and unite the country. The laws have been misused to convict minority Pakistanis as the Islamic forces unleashed by the general have gathered strength. The laws prescribe a mandatory death sentence for anyone convicted of insulting Islam. 
Religious parties staged vigorous demonstrations of thousands of people across the country last weekend to protest the campaign by Mr. Taseer, even burning him in effigy. Mr. Taseer countered in comments on his Twitter account and elsewhere.
''Religous right trying 2 pressurise from the street their support of blasphemy laws. Point is it must be decided in Parlaiment not on the road,'' he wrote on Dec. 26 in the imperfect shorthand typical of such posts.
''I was under huge pressure sure 2 cow down b4 rightest pressure on blasphemy. Refused. Even if I'm the last man standing,'' he posted on Dec. 31.
On Tuesday Mr. Taseer was shot in daylight multiple times at close range as he was getting into his car in Islamabad at the Kohsar Market, an area frequently visited by the city's elite. His attacker was identified as Malik Mumtaz Hussain Qadri, an elite-force security guard, who surrendered to the police immediately afterward and implied he had killed the governor because of his campaign to amend the blasphemy laws.
''I am a slave of the Prophet, and the punishment for one who commits blasphemy is death,'' he told a television crew from Dunya TV that arrived at the scene shortly after the killing, according to Nasim Zahra, the director of news at the channel.
It was not yet clear whether he had acted alone or on behalf of some extremist group.
Mr. Taseer's death will serve as a chilling warning to any politician who speaks out against the religious parties and their agenda and will certainly end immediate attempts to amend the blasphemy laws, politicians said. ''It is a loss to progressive forces; he stood up for what he believed in,'' said one of his party colleagues, Sherry Rehman, a legislator.
Yet Ms. Rehman, who has long worked to amend the blasphemy laws, said the party should regroup and continue to pursue the issue because it is central to the liberal politics that the Pakistan Peoples Party and Mr. Taseer have stood for.
''You can recoil in fear, or you can have a considered action and regroup sensibly at a time when it is approachable and applicable,'' she said.
Like Mr. Taseer, Ms. Rehman has frequently received threats, but she said the future of the country was at stake. ''You have to understand the gravity of the challenge,'' she said. ''Personal safety is at risk, but there is also an existential threat to Pakistan.''
Mr. Taseer's death will also be a severe loss for the governing Pakistan Peoples Party and President Asif Ali Zardari; Mr. Taseer was the president's personal friend and close political ally. As governor of Punjab, the nation's populous heartland, he was a bulwark against spreading radicalism and the main opposition party, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, led by Nawaz Sharif and his brother Shahbaz.
On Tuesday, the Sharifs' party added to the national government's troubles, giving the Pakistan Peoples Party a three-day deadline, extended for three more days in the wake of the assassination, to accept a list of demands to avert a no-confidence vote. These included a reversal of recent fuel price increases, cuts in spending of 30 percent and the enforcement of a series of court verdicts against governing party officials for corruption.
Obama administration officials worry that even if Pakistan's government survives the upheaval -- which they believe it might, for a while -- the turmoil could kill any chance for political and economic reforms. The assassination, one official said, leaves not only the repeal of the blasphemy laws in doubt, but also possible reforms to increase tax collection. Under pressure from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and other American officials, the Pakistani government submitted a new tax law in Parliament. But it may abandon the push as a way to lure back coalition partners.
In a statement, Secretary Clinton called Mr. Taseer's death ''a great loss'' and said she ''admired his work to promote tolerance.''
Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview on Tuesday that he was ''hugely concerned'' when he learned of the assassination, but that he expected Pakistan and its security relations with the United States to weather the crisis.
Members of the Pakistan Peoples Party were shaken to the core by the killing, which occurred within days of the anniversary of the assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto three years ago. The killing also resurrected the party's fears of the extensive infiltration of extremists in the government institutions, like the military and the police, of the nuclear-armed country.
President Zardari, Ms. Bhutto's husband, has blamed police and intelligence officials for her death, and his senior aides blamed infiltration of the elite Punjab security force for the governor's death.
''It was well organized; it was a jihadi element in the force that was there to protect him,'' said a presidential spokeswoman, Farahnaz Ispahani, who spoke tearfully about Mr. Taseer's death on the Express TV news channel Tuesday night.
Ms. Ispahani invoked the legacy of Pakistan's secular founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, using the popular title for him, Great Leader: ''Show me another party where the leaders are being murdered, and why is that? Because we are standing up for Quaid-i-Azam's Pakistan, and against extremism and terrorism.''
Hundreds of party members and friends gathered at Mr. Taseer's home in Lahore as his body was taken back from the capital on Tuesday evening, said Ahmed Rashid, an author and journalist. While many mourned a friend, Mr. Taseer's supporters warned that Pakistan had lost, after Ms. Bhutto, probably the most outspoken and determined advocate against religious extremism in the country.
While the liberal and progressive segments of society saw Mr. Taseer as a courageous and admirable leader, he was loathed by the extreme right. An indication of this disdain was evident in post-assassination statements by most religious leaders, who were reluctant to condemn the killing.
Citing hospital officials, local news media reports said that Mr. Taseer had been struck by nine bullets. But hospital officials later said that 24 bullets had hit him.
President Zardari expressed shock at the assassination, and a statement from the prime minister's office announced a three-day state of mourning. The funeral will be held in Lahore in the Governor's House, according to officials and party members.
Rehman Malik, the interior minister, told reporters that an investigation had been started to determine the motives of the assassin and whether he had acted alone.
Mr. Malik was quoted by the Geo Television network as saying that the killer had volunteered to be on Mr. Taseer's security detail on Tuesday morning. Mr. Malik said the Punjab police official who enlisted Mr. Qadri on the security detail had been taken in for questioning.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the assassination of Salman Taseer, an outspoken secular politician in Pakistan, misstated the decade in which he was imprisoned by the military dictator Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq for his opposition to the rise of religious parties and the extremism they spread. It was the 1980s, not the 1970s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Malik Mumtaz Hussain Qadri, center, a security guard, is being held in the killing of Salman Taseer, governor of Punjab Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARIQ WASEEM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Police officers collected evidence on Tuesday at the site where Salman Taseer, the Punjab governor, was killed in Islamabad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Taseer laid flowers in 2008 at the grave of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was assassinated the year before. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADEEM SOOMRO/REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



127 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: New Chiefs of Staff for Obama and Biden

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. are both looking for new chiefs of staff now. Those are the more prominent changes under consideration for a midterm makeover that so far suggests continuity more than a shakeup. 
The names being floated are mostly familiar ones -- people already in the Obama administration, veterans of the Clinton administration or both. White House officials say they see no reason to overhaul the staff even though Democrats were trounced in the midterm elections and Mr. Obama confronts newly empowered Republicans in Congress, even as he must begin to mobilize for his 2012 re-election campaign.
The potential jobs range from chief of staff, considered by many the second-most-powerful person in the White House, to perhaps the press secretary, the public face of the White House, should Robert Gibbs leave. And the openings could include a cabinet post if the current job-holder is shifted elsewhere.
With Mr. Obama back at the White House on Tuesday after a holiday vacation in Hawaii, White House aides said some personnel decisions could be announced perhaps this week. Among the announcements expected soon is a successor to Lawrence H. Summers, who has returned to teach at Harvard, as the chief White House economic adviser.
The leading candidate is believed to be Gene Sperling, who held the job under President Bill Clinton and is currently a counselor to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner. Other candidates have included Roger C. Altman, a Wall Street financier who was a deputy Treasury secretary under Mr. Clinton, and Richard C. Levin, an economist and the longtime president of Yale University.
Ron Klain, Mr. Biden's chief of staff for the past two years, told colleagues on Tuesday that he was leaving at the end of January. He will become president of Case Holdings, the parent company of the investment firm started by a previous boss, Steve Case, the former AOL chairman.
Mr. Klain, who also was chief of staff to former Vice President Al Gore for four years in the Clinton administration, had recently been mentioned as a possible chief of staff to Mr. Obama after Rahm Emanuel left last fall to run for mayor of Chicago.
''Two years is enough, especially when it's a job you've already done,'' said an official who asked to remain anonymous discussing personnel matters. Mr. Biden, in a statement, credited Mr. Klain with helping to establish ''the strong, positive relationship that exists between my staff and the president's team.''
While Mr. Obama tapped Pete Rouse, a longtime adviser, to succeed Mr. Emanuel, he has continued to consider other candidates since Mr. Rouse has made clear he prefers a less public White House role. Mr. Obama recently had a long meeting about the post with William M. Daley, who was Mr. Clinton's commerce secretary, but a Daley confidant said Tuesday that no job offer had been made.
David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior strategist through his campaign and in the White House, plans to leave soon after the State of the Union address and return to Chicago, first to relax and then to begin charting Mr. Obama's re-election effort. He will be succeeded by David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's campaign manager. Jim Messina, the deputy chief of staff , will also head to Chicago for the campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President and Mrs. Obama returned to the White House Tuesday with daughters Malia, left, and Sasha after a Hawaii vacation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); MAYORS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PARENT COMPANIES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); RON KLAIN (78%); PETE ROUSE (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); AL GORE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); STEVE CASE (54%); ROGER ALTMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



128 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Lower Goal For Cuts To Budget

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Many people knowledgeable about the federal budget said House Republicans could not keep their campaign promise to cut $100 billion from domestic spending in a single year. Now it appears that Republicans agree.
As they prepare to take power on Wednesday, Republican leaders are scaling back that number by as much as half, aides say, because the current fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, will be nearly half over before spending cuts could become law.
While House Republicans were never expected to succeed in enacting cuts of that scale, given opposition in the Senate from the Democratic majority and some Republicans, and from President Obama, a House vote would put potentially vulnerable Republican lawmakers on record supporting deep reductions of up to 30 percent in education, research, law enforcement, transportation and more. 
Now aides say that the $100 billion figure was hypothetical, and that the objective is to get annual spending for programs other than those for the military, veterans and domestic security back to the levels of 2008, before Democrats approved stimulus spending to end the recession.
Yet ''A Pledge to America,'' the manifesto House Republicans published last September, included the promise, ''We will roll back government spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels, saving us at least $100 billion in the first year alone.''
Republican leaders have repeatedly invoked the number. On Tuesday the Web site for Representative John A. Boehner, the incoming House speaker, included a link to his national radio address on the Saturday before the midterm elections, in which he said, ''We're ready to cut spending to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels, saving roughly $100 billion almost immediately.''
Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who will become chairman of the House Budget Committee, said in December that the goal was to cut ''a good $100 billion.'' At issue is so-called discretionary domestic spending, which is about one-sixth of the federal budget and does not include the more expensive and fast-growing entitlement programs like Medicare.
On Tuesday, aides to Mr. Ryan and Mr. Boehner blamed Democrats' failure to pass the regular appropriations bills for fiscal year 2011 for forcing Republicans to reduce their goal to perhaps $50 billion to $60 billion.
''House Republicans will continue to work to reduce spending for the final six months of this fiscal year -- bringing nonsecurity discretionary spending back to pre-stimulus, pre-bailout levels -- yielding taxpayers significant savings and starting a new era of cost cutting in Washington,'' said Conor Sweeney, communications director for Mr. Ryan.
Because Democrats did not pass appropriations bills last year, the government has been operating since October with appropriations continuing at the previous fiscal year's levels. It will do so until March 4, five months into this fiscal year.
The current spending levels are lower than Mr. Obama had requested for nonmilitary programs; he proposed a freeze at 2010 levels but with increases for some favored programs. The Republicans' campaign promise was based on their calculation they could cut $100 billion from Mr. Obama's higher levels.
Yet when Republicans issued their pledge last fall, it was clear that Congress would resort to a stopgap spending measure for at least part of 2011 and that, assuming Republicans won a majority, they would not be able to start work until the new Congress convened this month.
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said, ''I think they woke up to the reality that this will have a direct negative impact on people's lives.
''You know, it's easy to talk about these things in the abstract. It's another thing when you start taking away people's college loans and Pell Grants or cutting early education programs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Chris Van Hollen, left, with Robert Andrews, said reality had intruded on the Republicans' rhetoric. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); VETERANS (53%)

COMPANY: SWEENEY COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); ROBERT E ANDREWS (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



129 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: A Turnaround for Anadarko

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SWANN and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
Anadarko Petroleum, BP's silent partner in the Gulf of Mexico spill, has staged a remarkable recovery since last April's disaster. Discoveries from Mozambique to Brazil, along with takeover talk, have returned the explorer's shares to preaccident levels. Yet the firm's unknown liability makes it a slippery prey.
Early on, BP's problem looked potentially life-threatening to Anadarko, which has a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well in the gulf. Within two months of the spill, investors had stripped about $13 billion from the value of the company relative to its peer group. Anadarko, led by its chairman and chief executive, James T. Hackett, has yet to fully catch up with its rivals. But its revival has nonetheless been impressive. Shares in Anadarko, a $37 billion company, have lately traded above their level before the notorious blowout -- a feat that neither BP nor the rig owner, Transocean, has approached. 
Part of the explanation for this turnaround lies in Anadarko's prowess as a wildcatter. In Mozambique, the company has been so successful at tapping new resources that building a costly plant to liquefy natural gas now looks worthwhile. Oil discoveries off the coasts of Sierra Leone and Ghana are expected to increase prospects in the rest of the region. Add in findings in Brazil, and around 80 percent of Anadarko's international exploration targets have hit their mark against an industry average of less than 40 percent, according to the investment bank Raymond James. Investors were also cheered that production from Ghana's giant Jubilee field started on time.
Still, potential buyers of Anadarko, like the often-jilted BHP Billiton, might find the company tricky to value. While the possible range of the company's liability for the BP spill has narrowed, the numbers remain large. With the total cost of the spill now estimated at $40 billion, Anadarko could still face a $10 billion hit -- equal to about a quarter of the firm's value, or around $20 a share. On the other hand, if the spill can be attributed in legal terms to ''gross negligence'' on BP's part, Anadarko will suffer only financial flesh wounds.
The investors that bought Anadarko's stock during the oil spill have been richly rewarded. But a further leap of faith will be necessary for any acquirer.
Hedging Inflation
It may still be only a twinkle in investors' eyes, but eventually easy money and a recovering economy will bring rising prices. Several floating-rate issuances by corporate America's heavyweights are giving inflation worriers an early chance to protect themselves.
The traditional go-to hedges have been gold and the Treasury's inflation-protected securities, or TIPS. But both have drawbacks. Gold has become the preferred vehicle for the world's naysayers, who see it as a refuge should the global financial system collapse. In a market whose small size makes it vulnerable to exaggerated moves, that has some investors fearing a bubble. The yields after inflation on five-year TIPS, meanwhile, are currently negative. That means some market players are so convinced that inflation will re-emerge over the next five years that they're willing to accept short-term pain.
Lately, though, corporate titans like Berkshire Hathaway, General Electric and MetLife have given investors an arguably more palatable way to hedge inflation -- by issuing floating-rate debt.
Accounting for more than 45 percent of the investment-grade corporate bond market in 2007, floaters became an endangered species in 2009, representing less than 5 percent of issuance, according to Thomson Reuters. That's changing. More than a third of the G.E. finance arm's $6 billion deal on Tuesday came in floating form.
Berkshire's three-year floating-rate notes, which accounted for around a quarter of its $1.5 billion offering on Monday, priced to yield a meager 0.6 percent. But should inflation return, floating interest rates tend to track prices higher -- increasing investors' returns but also sparing them the big principal losses that can befall holders of fixed-rate debt.
Despite a flash flood of floating-rate supply in recent days, demand doesn't yet appear particularly heavy. But that could change quickly when consumer prices make a decisive turn higher. Floating interest rate debt offers investors worried about inflation a place to comfortably brace themselves.
CHRISTOPHER SWANN and AGNES T. CRANE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James T. Hackett, chairman and chief executive of Anadarko. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL SPILLS (89%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NEGLIGENCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%)

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (92%); CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES LTD (91%); BHP BILLITON PLC (66%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (92%); CNQ (TSX) (91%); CNQ (NYSE) (91%); BLT (LSE) (66%); BIBLT (JSE) (66%); BBL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (66%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (66%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (66%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (66%)

PERSON: JAMES T HACKETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) BRAZIL (93%); GHANA (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



130 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Starts Term With Some Top Jobs Still Empty

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo prepares to unveil an emergency financial reinvention plan for New York State in his address to the Legislature on Wednesday, senior positions remain unfilled throughout the very bureaucracy he is trying to tame, raising questions about the pace of his transition.
Most strikingly, Mr. Cuomo has not yet announced his pick for state budget director, a crucial job in any new administration and one that will take on particular importance as the new governor seeks to close next fiscal year's budget gap of more than $9 billion, his toughest challenge in the months ahead. 
Robert L. Megna, the widely respected budget director under Gov. David A. Paterson, appears to be running the roughly 330-person office day to day. But Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, has not formally appointed him as interim or permanent budget director, even while naming another senior Paterson aide, Lawrence S. Schwartz, to the interim position of senior adviser.
His access to the press appears limited. On Monday, when a reporter spotted Mr. Megna in the newly opened Hall of Governors in the executive chamber, a Cuomo aide grabbed Mr. Megna and ushered him into a private office.
''It's unusual not to have designated a budget director at this point in a new administration, especially when it seems pretty apparent who it is,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy. ''No one would criticize the governor for reappointing a budget director with Bob Megna's knowledge and expertise. I think the guy is pretty much universally respected.''
Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said: ''We are very pleased with our transition process, which is ongoing. We will continue to hire top-flight talent to fill out the administration.''
Mr. Cuomo's appointments to his executive staff -- positions like secretary to the governor and counsel, as well as the deputy secretaries who oversee groups of agencies and departments -- have about kept pace with those of the last elected governor, Eliot Spitzer. Like Mr. Spitzer, Mr. Cuomo pulled core members of his executive staff from those who served him at the attorney general's office, while supplementing them with veterans of previous administrations.
But Mr. Cuomo has lagged behind Mr. Spitzer on appointing or nominating people to leadership positions at the state's major agencies, departments and authorities, which control billions of dollars in revenue and play a central role in government-led economic development projects.
As of Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo had made just six such appointments or nominations, including choices to lead the State Police and the departments of health and environmental conservation, and the State Dormitory Authority, which provides financing and construction to universities and health care institutions.
In contrast, by the third week of December 2006, Mr. Spitzer had made 16 such appointments or nominations, including many of the largest agencies and public authorities in state government. .
He had also designated senior officials for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and the Empire State Development Corporation. Those appointments signaled his intent to quickly put his stamp on the semi-independent authorities that form what some have called New York's ''shadow government,'' which Mr. Cuomo has pledged to discipline and to shrink.
The relatively slow pace of agency appointments is particularly surprising given that Mr. Cuomo held commanding advantages in money and poll numbers for virtually all of his seven-month campaign and had directed his transition teams to focus on personnel recruitment, leaving policy to his senior staff. Mr. Vlasto said the transition team members had conducted over 150 interviews with potential hires.
But it may reflect the difficulty of recruiting talented personnel under the regime of stricter ethics laws that Mr. Spitzer put in place, as well as the fact that public disgust with state government is high -- not to mention Mr. Cuomo's reputation as a demanding and at times difficult boss.
''The ethics laws are problematic for people who might want to return to the private sector; they arguably go farther than is necessary and may be keeping good people from government,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, a research organization focusing on state government. ''It's a real problem when an exciting, activist governor like this one has trouble bringing in new people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in the Hall of Governors on Tuesday, the day before he was to deliver his State of the State address. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%); DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



131 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Deflation Concerns Diminish At the Fed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Top officials at the Federal Reserve were feeling better about the economy, but not so much that they considered scaling back their $600 billion effort to hold down long-term interest rates and stimulate the recovery by buying government bonds.
Concerns about falling prices have eased for the Fed's decision makers, who now believe that inflation will gradually rise, but remain below the desired level of about 2 percent for some time, according to minutes from their Dec. 14 meeting. 
The minutes, released Tuesday after a customary three-week delay, also indicated that Fed officials were not particularly worried about the recent rise in government bond yields, judging that the rise was a consequence of greater optimism about the outlook for growth and would not undermine their $600 billion program.
The new minutes -- and in particular the new outlook for inflation -- got the Fed off to an optimistic start for the new year. By contrast, the central bank was preoccupied for much of 2010 with a pressing issue: whether inflation was so low that the economy threatened to tip into a deflationary cycle.
Fear of deflation was one of the main justifications the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, advanced for the decision in November to pump $600 billion into the banking system, a resumption of a strategy to spur the recovery by buying government securities to hold down long-term rates.
The new minutes show that the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed panel that sets monetary policy, has become more optimistic about growth and less fearful of deflation. But the committee has not decided on whether to continue the $600 billion asset purchase program through June, or to scale it back early.
''While the economic outlook was seen as improving, members generally felt that the change in the outlook was not sufficient to warrant any adjustments to the asset-purchase program, and some noted that more time was needed to accumulate information on the economy before considering any adjustment,'' the minutes stated.
The minutes, which do not refer to the Fed officials by name, noted that ''some indicated that they had a fairly high threshold for making changes to the program.''
Economists are divided on whether the Fed will carry out the $600 billion in bond purchases, commonly known as QE2, shorthand for the Fed's second round of quantitative easing.
''My guess is that the Fed will scale back the intervention in the first quarter of 2011 as they continue to see activity firming, no tangible deflation risk and a brightening of their outlook,'' said Gregory D. Hess, an economist at Claremont-McKenna College.
But Roger E. A. Farmer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, predicted that the Fed would go ahead with the program. ''If they don't it's a problem because the expectations of quantitative easing have already been priced into the markets,'' he said.
Stephanie Schmitt-Grohe, an economist at Columbia, said: ''I don't think the minutes suggest they will stop anytime soon. But I also don't think whether they continue or stop will be all that important for the economy. I am skeptical whether QE2 has any real positive or negative effects.''
The Fed has held short-term interest rates near zero since December 2008 to make borrowing cheap and ease the recovery from the financial crisis. Also, from that month through March 2010 it bought $1.7 trillion in mortgage-related securities and government bonds to push down mortgage rates and other longer-term rates.
The November decision to do an additional $600 billion of quantitative easing (on top of $250 billion to $300 billion in additional bond purchases using money from the mortgage-related holdings, a decision announced in August) unleashed criticism that the Fed was inadvertently financing the federal deficit, driving down the value of the dollar and raising the risks of future inflation and bubbles.
The latest minutes make an oblique acknowledgment of the criticisms, stating that Fed officials agreed to examine ''any unintended consequences that might arise'' and make adjustments if needed.
The minutes also suggested that officials were not alarmed by the recent uptick in government bond yields. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 3.33 percent on Tuesday, up from 2.67 percent on Nov. 3, when the Fed announced the QE2 effort.
The minutes noted several causes for ''the significant backup in yields.'' Investors had lowered their estimates of how much the Fed would buy. Economic data suggested that the outlook was improving. And the $858 billion tax-cut deal the Obama administration reached with Congressional Republicans bolstered expectations for growth in the new year.
Several on the committee thought the purchases were ''helping to keep longer-term yields lower than would otherwise be the case,'' according to the minutes.
The minutes suggested that most on the committee expected ''a gradual pickup in growth with slow progress toward maximum employment,'' but disagreed about potential risks. A few officials expressed concern that ''growth could pick up more rapidly than expected,'' and ''trigger undesirable increases in inflation expectations,'' which could result in a rise in actual inflation.
But on the other side were officials who expressed anxiety that the recovery could slow again because of further weakening in the housing sector, sharp spending cuts and tax increases in states and cities, and spillovers from any further worsening of Europe's strained banking and financial markets.
An important measure of inflation that the Fed uses, the price index for personal consumption expenditures, rose at a 1.1 percent annualized rate in November, much less than the unofficial goal of around 2 percent. While several participants said deflation was still a threat, they saw the risk ''as having receded somewhat over recent months,'' the minutes said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, left, chairman of the Federal Reserve, during an open meeting of the board in Washington. The central bank's outlook is relatively optimistic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



132 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Says Tourism Hit Record High in 2010

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Despite the lingering effects of the recession, more people visited New York City in 2010 than in any other year, according to an estimate Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Tuesday.
Speaking in the conservatory at Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Mr. Bloomberg said the city drew 48.7 million tourists last year, which puts the city back on track to reaching his goal of attracting 50 million visitors annually by next year. The estimated increase of almost 7 percent came after tourism in the city dipped to about 45.5 million visitors in 2009.
Visitors, many of them flush with foreign currencies that had extra buying power against a weak dollar, flocked to the city's hotels, theaters and museums even though ticket prices and room rates were rising. All told, tourists spent $31 billion in the city last year, up about 10 percent from 2009, the mayor said. 
''The strength of our tourism industry is one of the reasons New York City was less impacted by the national recession than other cities,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''and it continues to be one of the reasons we're growing faster than other cities today.''
The surprisingly strong numbers gave the mayor something positive to talk about after a week of nearly nonstop criticism of how his administration handled the blizzard that struck on Dec. 26. They also helped to validate his decision several years ago to take control of the city's main tourism promoter, NYC & Company, and to supplement its private financing with as much as $21 million a year. After the latest budget cuts, the agency is getting $15 million from the city this year, a spokeswoman said.
Mr. Bloomberg said the tax revenue that tourism provided and the jobs it created more than justified the spending. He said the hospitality industry -- hotels, restaurants, museums and attractions -- added 6,600 jobs last year and now employed more people than it ever had, about 320,000 workers. At the region's airports, including Newark Liberty International, the tide of domestic travelers was flat and still below prerecession levels last year, but the number of passengers on international flights was nearing an annual high heading into December.
''Tourism is our replacement for industry,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, referring to a long, steady decline of the city's manufacturing base.
Even with the hotel-building boom that began before the recession, the city's hotels were nearly full, at rates that averaged more than $250 a night in Manhattan. The overall occupancy rate for hotel rooms in Manhattan in 2010 was more than 85 percent, up about 5 percent from the year before, according to Colliers PKF Consulting USA, which tracks the hotel industry.
John Fox, a senior vice president at Colliers PKF, said his firm had forecast that the hotel occupancy rate in the metropolitan region would decline slightly this year as more hotels opened but that the average rate would rise by nearly 7 percent.
Several museums logged their highest annual attendance last year. At MoMA, where admission costs $20 and about 60 percent of the visitors are from other countries, attendance surpassed three million in the fiscal year that ended June 30. At the Guggenheim Museum, attendance was about even with 2008's, slightly more than 1.1 million visitors, but down from 1.3 million in 2009, when the museum celebrated its 50th anniversary.
The mayor said he expected the city to rank as the country's top tourist destination for 2010, repeating a claim he made a year ago that did not sit so well in Orlando, Fla. Last year, tourism officials there issued a final count of more than 46 million visitors for 2009, about one million more than New York claimed.
Danielle Courtenay, the chief marketing officer for Visit Orlando, said that her agency would not have a 2010 tally until the spring, but she added that its published forecast was for 48.6 million visitors -- just shy of the number Mr. Bloomberg announced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Visitors in Times Square for New Year's Eve festivities were part of a 7 percent jump in tourism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOURISM (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); AIR FARES (74%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); AIRLINES (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (69%); TICKET SALES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (66%); AIRPORTS (61%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



133 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Iran Invites Some Nations, Not U.S., for Nuclear Tour

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from Brussels, and Steven Erlanger from Paris

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Iran has invited Russia, China and several European Union members to visit its nuclear facilities this month, but pointedly snubbed the United States, European diplomats said on Monday.
Tehran confirmed on Tuesday that it had offered the invitation to show what Ramin Mehmanparast, an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, called transparency and ''Tehran's goodwill'' on its nuclear program.
The invitation -- which seemed calculated to divide the alliance of nations opposed to Iran's nuclear ambitions before the next round of negotiations over the program -- was swiftly dismissed by the United States. 
''It's a clever ploy, but it's not a substitute for Iran's responsibilities to the I.A.E.A.,'' said the State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, referring to the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has been locked in an increasingly tense standoff with the Iranian government over its enrichment of uranium.
''It won't draw international attention away from the issues regarding Iran's nuclear program,'' Mr. Crowley added, noting that its enrichment activities violated six United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The European diplomats said the invitation was not likely to be accepted, if at all, until after the next round of negotiations, expected to be held in Istanbul at the end of this month.
''This is something that in principle could be interesting, but not before the next round of talks,'' said one diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the confidential deliberations. ''This seems like Iranian tactics: they would like to put up a smokescreen and link things that can't be linked.''
Reuters quoted Mr. Mehmanparast, the Iranian spokesman, as saying the invitation was for a visit on Jan. 15-16 -- before the scheduled negotiations in Istanbul between Iran and world powers including the United States.
The Iranian letter was sent to Russia, China, members of the European Union, and other countries. The United States would normally be included in such a group, as it negotiates with Iran, along with the other permanent members of the Security Council -- Britain, France, Russia and China -- as well as Germany.
''There's no invitation in our in-box,'' Mr. Crowley said.
The United States has assembled a coalition to impose sanctions on Iran, unilaterally and through the United Nations. But Russia and especially China still maintain commercial ties with Iran, and they have voiced reluctance about further tightening the economic vise on Tehran.
The Associated Press, citing an unidentified diplomat, said Iran was offering access to sites at Natanz and Bushehr, as well as meetings with two top officials involved in the program: Ali Salehi, the acting foreign minister who oversees it, and Saeed Jalili, the chief nuclear negotiator.
That would appear to rule out a visit to the enrichment facility near the holy city of Qum, the existence of which was disclosed by the Obama administration in late 2009 and has come to symbolize Iran's murky intentions.
Natanz, another site for uranium enrichment, has also long concerned international inspectors. But the Bushehr nuclear plant, which is being built with Russian technology, is viewed as less of a threat since it operates under safeguards. Iran insists its entire program is for civilian power generation.
Last month, Iran held two days of largely unproductive nuclear talks with the United States and other countries in Geneva. The atmosphere was frosty, said diplomats who took part, and there was no separate meeting between the American and Iranian representatives.
The Geneva meeting was organized by Catherine Ashton, the European Union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. But this invitation was sent to European representatives at the atomic energy agency's headquarters in Vienna -- including Hungary, which just took over the presidency of the European Union -- rather than to Ms. Ashton, a diplomat said.
Normally, he said, when Iran does something like this they immediately publicize it. The Associated Press said this letter was dated Dec. 27.
.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2011



134 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Notes Sharp Rise in World Food Prices

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
World food prices continued to rise sharply in December, bringing them close to the crisis levels that provoked shortages and riots in poor countries three years ago, according to newly released United Nations data.
Prices are expected to remain high this year, prompting concern that the world may be approaching another crisis, although economists cautioned that many factors, like adequate stockpiles of key grains, could prevent a serious problem.
The United Nations data measures commodity prices on the world export market. Those are generally far removed from supermarket prices in wealthy countries like the United States. In this country, food price inflation has been relatively tame, and prices are forecast to rise only 2 to 3 percent this year. 
But the situation is often different in poor countries that rely more heavily on imports. The food price index of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization rose 32 percent from June to December, according to the report published Wednesday. In December, the index was slightly higher than it was in June 2008, its previous peak. The index is not adjusted for inflation, however, making an exact comparison over time difficult.
The global index was pushed up last year by rising prices for cooking oils, grains, sugar and meat, all of which could continue to remain high or rise.
''We are at a very high level,'' said Abdolreza Abbassian, an economist for the organization, which is based in Rome. ''These levels in the previous episode led to problems and riots across the world.''
Mr. Abbassian said that bad weather affecting commodity crops in many exporting countries might help keep prices high over the next several months.
''The concern is that the long duration of the high prices for the months to come may eventually result in these high prices reaching the domestic markets of these poorer countries,'' he said. ''In the event of that, there is the chance of the repeat of the events of 2007 and 2008.''
At that time, high petroleum prices, growing world demand for food and poor harvests in some areas combined to sharply push up food prices in poorer importing countries. That led to shortages and sometimes deadly riots in several countries, including Egypt, Haiti, Somalia and Cameroon.
Mr. Abbassian said there were several crucial differences this year.
Countries in central, western and southern Africa have had generally good harvests from crops planted last year, easing reliance on imports. And grain prices remain significantly below the highs they hit in 2007 and 2008. Export prices for rice are 40 to 50 percent below those highs, he said.
Grain prices have a much greater impact on the food budgets of people in poor countries than prices for commodities like sugar or meat, which tend to make up a much smaller portion of their diet.
In addition, global supplies of rice and wheat are much more robust today than during the crisis.
But ensuring sufficient grain supplies depends on good harvests this year in major exporting countries. Dry conditions in Argentina that could hurt corn, and soybean crops are worrisome, Mr. Abbassian said. Heavy rains in Australia delayed the wheat harvest there, resulting in a poorer crop. In the United States, harsh, dry weather is expected to hurt the winter wheat crop.
Gawain M. Kripke, policy director of Oxfam America, said the food price increases were a polite warning. ''We may get much more rude warnings soon,'' he said.
The United Nations estimates that nearly one billion people worldwide do not get enough food, Mr. Kripke noted. ''That's almost certain to increase as prices rise, especially if they rise in an aggressive manner, which they are,'' he said. In the United States, meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has predicted that retail food prices will rise 2 to 3 percent in 2011. That is a higher rate than in the last two years but less than the 5.5 percent food inflation that hit American consumers in 2008. In November, the last month for which data is available, food prices in the United States rose 1.5 percent compared with the same month the previous year.
Joseph Glauber, the Agriculture Department's chief economist, said that rising world commodity prices could be expected to have their greatest impact in this country on meat and dairy prices because they can push up the price of livestock feed.
As feed prices go up, farmers often cut the size of herds, meaning less meat ultimately reaches the market. Beef, pork and dairy prices rose faster last year than overall food prices and are expected to continue that trend this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Farmers harvesting sugar cane in Uttar Pradesh, India. Inclement weather could mean higher prices for some commodities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1) CHART: World Food Prices Rise: An index of world food prices tracked by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations surpassed its previous record high in December. The index is not adjusted for inflation. (Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); RICE MARKETS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); RICE FARMING (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); OILS & FATS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (57%) CAMEROON (79%); SOMALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



135 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Governor Cuomo's New York

 BODY:
Past New York governors usually leaned on lofty rhetoric and vague promises as they gave their annual State of the State speeches in the stuffy halls of the Legislature. Gov. Andrew Cuomo wisely chucked all that on Wednesday in favor of a stark analysis of New York's dismal plight.
Assisted by huge video screens at Albany's downtown auditorium, Mr. Cuomo offered elaborate -- and promising, if he can pull them off -- proposals to ''reinvent, reorganize and redesign'' New York government at almost every level. He vowed to make New York ''a business-friendly state'' and to curb state spending. He ended by literally bellowing about his pursuit of progressive causes, from marriage equality and reorganization of juvenile detention centers to new consumer protections and fresher food in urban centers. 
Now if he can only deliver. (His ode to the state's dysfunctional Legislature, while probably a diplomatic nicety, was not encouraging. The Legislature is part of the problem, not the solution, at this point.)
Although detail was lacking, the governor's ''fundamental realignment'' of state government included a few particularly promising ideas:
The creation of three commissions to recommend within weeks how to trim state government agencies and authorities by 20 percent, how to remove the costliest state demands on local governments, and how to cut Medicaid costs, probably by at least $2 billion. All of these changes must go through the Legislature, but the panels will at least provide a place to air his proposed budget cuts. They could even offer better ideas.
To encourage good government practices, an extra $250 million for local governments to consolidate their services and $250 million for school districts that educate their students more successfully.
A ''Clean Up Albany'' package, not ''watered down'' by the less wholesome forces that still dominate state government. The governor's list includes public financing for elections, an independent redistricting commission, full disclosure of outside income by legislators, and other reforms that are indispensable if New York government is ever to regain credibility.
One financial regulation department to deal with banking, insurance and consumer protection. Mr. Cuomo promised that the new department will focus on protecting consumers from predatory lending, seedy foreclosures and other dishonest practices.
Governor Cuomo's pep rally came almost a month before he will present his first balanced budget (due Feb. 1). He acknowledged how big the problem is. If underlying costs for the state are not addressed now, he said, a $10 billion gap looms in next year's $136 billion budget, $14 billion the year after that and $17 billion after that.
Mr. Cuomo has wisely promised no one-time fixes when he presents his budget. And he said he would close the ''partisan political theater'' -- which should mean he will open the budget process to more than the three men in a room who have made budget decisions for many years. But he has also stuck to his vow to impose a property tax cap and a cap on increases in the state budget at the national inflation rate.
These caps sound frugal and sensible, but artificial caps on state spending are bad long-term policies, and the real estate tax cap will punish poorer communities where facilities deteriorate because homeowners will not agree to pay more taxes.
Mr. Cuomo cut his own salary by 5 percent, and asked for a wage freeze for most state workers for a year. That would make more budgetary sense if he did not seem so inclined to eliminate the income tax surcharge on people making more than $200,000 a year.
Mr. Cuomo has been talking a lot about returning to a time when New York's government was the model for other states. As he well knows, that is a high bar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); REDISTRICTING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (63%); FORECLOSURE (60%); PREDATORY LENDING (60%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (54%); MARRIAGE (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



136 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants a 30-Year Mortgage?

BYLINE: By BETHANY McLEAN. 
Bethany McLean is the co-author, with Joe Nocera of The Times, of ''All the Devils Are Here: The Hidden History of the Financial Crisis.''

 BODY:
AS we all move forward with our New Year's resolutions, it's a good time to remember the promises our politicians have been making about the American mortgage market. The Obama administration, at a conference last August on the future of housing finance, pledged to have, come January, a plan for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants that are now wards of the government. Congressional Republicans, in their recent position paper, made an even bolder resolution: to build a mortgage market that ''does not rely on government guarantees'' and ''does not make private investors and creditors wealthy while saddling taxpayers with losses.''
This latter promise is pleasing populist rhetoric. The problem is, it may be neither politically nor practically feasible. Even if we forget about the gigantic near-term problem -- namely, that the federal government is in the housing market mainly because most banks simply won't issue mortgages that can't be guaranteed by Fannie, Freddie or the Federal Housing Administration -- there's the fact that federal involvement in housing has been a constant since the 1930s. A market without government support would almost certainly involve the demise (for most of middle-class America) of that populist favorite, the low-cost 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. 
For a homeowner, a mortgage with a 30-year fixed rate (especially one that he can pay off early without a penalty) is a wonderful thing. For lenders and investors, however, it is a financial Frankenstein's monster, an unnatural product filled with the potential for losses. Absorbing some of the risk of those losses is a large part of what the government does in the housing market.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, for instance, were created by the federal government to buy up mortgages from lenders, thereby enabling them to turn around and issue more mortgages. Among other things, this allowed the lenders to get off their books the two kinds of risk that a mortgage carries. We're all now sadly familiar with one kind, credit risk -- that is, the danger that a borrower won't pay back the mortgage. The second is interest-rate risk, the danger that interest rates will rise sharply after the mortgage has been made, thereby burdening the bank with money-losing loans. (Interest-rate risk was the root cause of the savings and loan crisis.) The longer a mortgage lasts, the more difficult it is to manage both of these risks. And 30 years is an awfully long time.
With the advent of securitization, or the ability to package up mortgages and sell them off as securities, the market found some investors -- bond funds, insurance companies and others -- that were willing to take on interest-rate risk. But even in those halcyon days when credit risk wasn't supposed to be an issue, the majority of investors still didn't want it. So Fannie and Freddie solved the problem by guaranteeing the payment on mortgages before the securities were sold off to investors. (In the non-government market, the ratings agencies provided a solution, by stamping large pieces of securitizations with the supposedly ultrasafe triple-A rating.)
Today, credit risk is anathema, and by shouldering it, Fannie and Freddie are propping up the housing market. The banks that make the mortgages don't want credit risk, and neither do investors. Indeed, William Gross, the co-founder and managing director of the investment firm Pimco, has said his funds wouldn't buy pools of so-called private label mortgages -- those lacking a government guarantee -- unless the homeowners involved had made a down payment of at least 30 percent.
The proposed Fannie-Freddie reform that has gotten the most traction recently -- various iterations of this have been endorsed by Hank Paulson, the former Treasury secretary, among others -- calls for new private-sector entities that would continue to provide credit guarantees on mortgages. These guarantees would not be entirely private, however, because they would be explicitly backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
There are various proposals for how this could be done with less risk to taxpayers than Fannie and Freddie pose, but, obviously, we're still talking government involvement. And there's something perverse about creating companies that would be saddled with exactly the same kind of risk -- credit risk -- that took down Fannie and Freddie in 2008. Furthermore, we're kidding ourselves if we don't think that once the memory of the housing bubble begins to fade, these new creatures won't find themselves under political pressure to keep the price of their credit guarantees low, in order to help keep the price of the 30-year mortgage low as well.
Wouldn't a better solution be for banks and other financial institutions to offer mortgage products that they actually want to keep on their own books? Maybe these would take the form of 15-year mortgages with a rate that would be adjusted after five years so that the banks wouldn't have to worry about long-term interest-rate risk. This might not even mean the disappearance of 30-year fixed-rate mortgages -- the private market has historically provided them to consumers whose mortgages are too big to qualify for a Fannie and Freddie guarantee. But these are usually issued only to the wealthiest, most credit-worthy consumers.
And therein lies the rub. Almost certainly, any 30-year product would be offered on a more limited basis and at a higher price than it is today. How much higher, it's hard to say. In the pre-crisis days, Fannie used to argue that its guarantee enabled consumers to pay one quarter to one half of a percentage point less in annual interest on their mortgages; today, Mr. Gross says that mortgages without a government guarantee would cost at least several percentage points more. If his numbers are right, then mortgages -- and 30-year mortgages in particular -- would be far more expensive, and the pool of American homebuyers would shrink.
This may well be the right long-term answer. After all, other countries manage fine without the widespread availability of 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. But is there an American politician alive who would accept responsibility for depressing the housing market further?
In any case, even a willingness to have more expensive mortgages would not get the government out of the housing market completely. Recall that, before the bubble burst in 2007, the private sector didn't do much better than the government-sponsored entities at monitoring mortgage risk. What would happen years down the road if one of our increasingly large banks, one that is critical to the mortgage business, ran into trouble? Even assuming that we'd solved the issue of allowing such banks to be too big to fail, there'd still be deposit insurance. Taxpayers would still be on the hook.
So be wary of politicians bearing promises of a perfect world where average Americans can get the mortgages to which we now all feel entitled and the government is nowhere to be seen. It's a mirage.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); INSURANCE (72%); SECURITIZATION (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); BOND FUNDS (70%); BONDS (70%); BANK FAILURES (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



137 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: TAKING CONTROL, G.O.P. OVERHAULS RULES IN HOUSE

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Jubilant Republicans took control of the House on Wednesday and installed Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio as the new speaker before pushing through an overhaul of House rules intended to expedite their drive to dismantle the new health care law, cut federal spending and provide the tax cuts they see as a way to jump-start the economy.
In the Senate, tensions over the partisan stalemate that dominated the last session spilled into the opening of the 112th Congress as a coalition of Democrats threatened to try to force changes that would reduce filibusters and other procedural snags that have slowed the pace of legislation the past two years.
The convening of the new Congress and the first day of divided government in Washington since President Obama's inauguration two years ago was largely one of ceremony, posturing and such preliminary procedural skirmishes. But it set the stage for partisan and ideological clashes on the size and role of government and a wide array of other issues as the nation struggles to rebuild economic momentum, confront its rapidly growing debt and manage complex national security threats. 
After accepting an oversize gavel from the departing Democratic speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Mr. Boehner promised to run the chamber in a more inclusive and businesslike way. But mindful of demands by new Tea Party Republicans for decisive action to cut spending and rein in what they see as an overactive government, he set the House on a course to take apart the health law, take a deep bite out of this year's budget and investigate the administration's handling of at least a half-dozen big issues over the past two years.
''The people voted to end business as usual, and today we begin to carry out their instructions,'' Mr. Boehner told his assembled colleagues, referring to the election sweep that carried Republicans back to power in the House four years after Democrats led by Ms. Pelosi ended their domination.
Mr. Boehner said that excessive and wasteful federal spending had caught up with the nation and warned that ''hard work and tough decisions will be required of the 112th Congress.''
''No longer can we fall short,'' he said. ''No longer can we kick the can down the road.''
To reverse what they say is a Congressional process tilted toward spending increases, the new Republican majority in the House -- over strong Democratic objections -- approved rules that would require spending increases to be directly offset with cuts elsewhere. But the rules would allow future tax cuts to be enacted without offsetting spending reductions, and would permit repeal of the health care legislation, which was estimated to save the government more than $140 billion over 10 years, without any requirement that those revenue losses be made up elsewhere.
''We are going to cut spending and job-killing government regulations, and grow the economy and private-sector jobs,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the new majority leader and the No. 2 Republican in the House.
Democrats criticized the changes, saying Republicans were returning to the policies that had put the government on a path to deep deficits in the first place and would open the door to ''Enron-style accounting'' that covered up the costs of tax cuts and their other legislative efforts.
''House Republicans are like the fellow who bellies up to the bar, asking for just one more round of tax breaks for his buddies, while declaring, 'Put it on my tab,' '' said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. ''But it's really our tab. By focusing on only half the budget equation, and avoiding revenue stewardship, they reject sound fiscal leadership.''
Despite the good feelings and promises of cooperation traditional on the opening day of Congress, the partisan tension broke into the open as Ms. Pelosi, in her final remarks as speaker, praised the legislative record of the Democratic Congress, highlighting the health care legislation that House Republicans intend to try to repeal next week.
Mr. Boehner, who was introduced by Ms. Pelosi as a ''proud son of Ohio,'' choked up as she introduced his wife and members of his family -- including 10 of his 11 siblings -- who were watching from the House gallery.
Elated Republicans celebrated on the floor and gave the new speaker repeated standing ovations. Republicans welcomed 87 new members, many infused with the conservative zeal of the Tea Party movement that helped Republicans so decisively end Democratic rule in the November elections. Nine Democratic freshmen joined the House, which now has 242 Republicans and 193 Democrats, a shift of 63 seats from the 111th Congress.
Mr. Boehner's rise to speaker was a foregone conclusion, but he was formally elected on a vote of a 241 votes for him to 173 for Ms. Pelosi as all lawmakers were called on by name to announce their choice. In a potentially troubling sign for Ms. Pelosi's ability to hold her party together in her new role as minority leader, 19 Democrats voted for someone else, mostly for Representative Heath Shuler, a conservative North Carolina Democrat who challenged Ms. Pelosi in the internal party leadership fight.
Mr. Boehner acknowledged that the fighting between the two parties in recent years had built up ''a great deal of scar tissue.'' But he promised to give minority Democrats ample opportunity to try to influence legislation on the floor, a chance he said had often been denied Republicans in recent years.
Democrats took some comfort from his pledge of openness and inclusiveness as they tried to absorb their suddenly reduced status.
''We are still members of Congress,'' said Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York. ''There is a role for us to play.''
The shift of power in the House overshadowed the convening of the Senate at the appointed hour of noon. Democrats retain a majority in the Senate, but their numbers were reduced by six in the November elections, creating a new partisan split of 53-47 after Democrats had for a time in 2008 controlled 60 votes, the number needed to break a filibuster without any Republican defections.
With several former members on hand, including former Vice President Dan Quayle and Paul Laxalt of Nevada, 12 new Republican senators and one Democrat -- Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut -- were sworn in by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., along with almost two dozen other senators re-elected in November.
After the ceremonies, the Senate immediately plunged into a daylong debate over Democratic proposals to curtail filibusters and force senators to make public their ''holds'' that can block bills and nominations.
''The minority has simply been abusing Senate rules,'' said Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, referring to Republican tactics in recent years that have forced Democrats to move more than 90 times to cut off debate on measures.
Republicans strongly cautioned Democrats against making any changes and warned they could face retaliation if Republicans recapture the majority. With the Senate in session just for the day, a potential floor showdown was put off until Jan. 25. Senate leaders remain engaged in talks to try to avert a rules fight that many lawmakers fear could prove disruptive.
Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said the election may have rendered the need for any rules change moot since the narrower margin between the two parties will force more negotiation and consensus building before any measures can advance.
''The American people have sort of fixed the problem that some of our colleagues have perceived,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new House speaker, Representative John A. Boehner, took the reins from Representative Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday. (A1)
Accepting the gavel on the opening day of the 112th Congress, Mr. Boehner pledged a new era of transparency in lawmaking and promised to push forward a conservative agenda.
Lawmakers congratulated one another on Wednesday after taking the oath of office for the 112th Congress, which has 242 Republicans and 193 Democrats.
 Joe Flores of Stratford, Tex., center, was among guests watching the session in the gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



138 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Deeper at the Pentagon

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW; Thom Shanker contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It was supposed to be a tank that swims, a new way for the Marines to storm hostile beaches.
But as military budgets come under pressure, the 38-ton landing craft that turns into an assault vehicle seems destined to be the next bit of high-tech wizardry to bite the dust.
Pentagon and industry officials say the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, is poised to cancel the long-delayed $14.4 billion program on Thursday, when he is expected to announce a new round of belt-tightening at the Pentagon. The hybrid vehicle, being built by General Dynamics, is the most expensive weapons system to be cut since Mr. Gates canceled or trimmed three dozen programs in April 2009.
Mr. Gates is also likely on Thursday to approve a two-year delay in the Marine Corps version of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, the military's largest program, and spell out how he plans to save up to $100 billion on the Pentagon's operations. 
The military is facing intensifying political and economic pressures to restrain its budget, and Mr. Gates has sought to contain the demands by ending troubled weapons systems and squeezing more efficiency out of the Pentagon's bureaucracy to pay for other programs. But Congress will have the final say on many of the decisions, including the fate of the hybrid Marine vehicle, and it remains hard to tell how it will balance the fiscal demands with concerns about jobs and military strength.
The Marine landing craft, called the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, was conceived in the late 1980s, and each one was meant to carry 17 Marines ashore and roar inland without pausing on beaches raked by enemy fire. But difficulties in marrying the land and sea technology have led to billions in cost overruns and years of delay, with an early cost estimate of $9 billion for 1,000 vehicles ballooning to $14.4 billion for 574 of them. The government has so far spent about $3 billion on its development.
Mr. Gates, moreover, has questioned whether amphibious assaults, which were crucial in World War II and the Korean War, make sense now that adversaries can fire missiles at ships and tanks from many miles away.
As a result, a decision to cancel the vehicle would represent a shift in war-fighting strategy and could diminish the role of the Marines. Even though they have handled some of the toughest fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Marines have been eager to get back to their traditional role as an amphibious fighting force. And to be effective, some say, they need a better means to force their way onto heavily defended islands and coastlines, even if infrequently.
Current and former Marine officials said they would now extend the lives of their older landing vehicles, which must be released much closer to the beach, and see if they could come up with a less expensive version of the new vehicle.
''We'll just pray that we don't have to go into harm's way in the next 10 years,'' said Gregory S. Newbold, a retired Marine lieutenant general who served as director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 2000 to 2002.
General Dynamics officials and some former Marine officials said they would appeal to Congress to consider buying a smaller number of the new vehicles -- possibly 200 -- to use in the most hazardous landings, while using other methods to conduct more routine operations. Company officials said the program could account for thousands of jobs in Michigan and Ohio.
Mr. Gates's decision comes after a series of extensive reviews of the future of the Marine Corps, which have left many Marines feeling under siege. Though the smallest service, the Marines have long been known for their outsize political strength, because of their gung-ho desire to be ''first to fight'' whenever trouble flares.
The leaders of President Obama's deficit reduction panel recommended in November that Mr. Gates cancel the fighting vehicle and also kill the Marine version of the F-35, which can take off and land almost vertically, and halt production of the V-22 Osprey, a combination of a winged plane and a helicopter that has also had a troubled history.
But Mr. Gates is likely to give the Marines two more years to solve problems with parts failures that have caused the testing of their version of the F-35, a fighter designed to attack ground targets, to fall behind that of the more conventional Air Force and Navy models, industry officials said. Mr. Gates is not expected to reduce production of the V-22, which the Marines use to speed the delivery of their forces.
Still, the Marines say they recognize that Pentagon spending is leveling off and is likely to decline over the next several years. Federal officials said Mr. Gates was seeking to increase the basic Pentagon budget, excluding war costs, to $566 billion for fiscal 2012, but had to push the White House to approve $554 billion, or just a slight increase over the $549 billion that the Pentagon sought for 2011. And even some Marines acknowledge that they made themselves vulnerable to the cost-cutting by becoming just as caught up in high-tech projects as the rest of the military.
''The Marine Corps used to say, 'Our weapons system is the Marine,' and tout its affordability as a service,'' said Dakota Wood, a retired Marine lieutenant colonel who is now a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a research group in Washington. ''But they seem to have become enamored with the very high-end programs that in previous years they would have criticized the Army or the Air Force for pursuing.''
The new fighting vehicle was supposed to replace the 40-year-old amphibious assault vehicle, which has less armor and can ferry the Marines only a couple of miles to shore. The new craft would have allowed Navy vessels to dispatch the Marines up to 25 miles from shore. It was also designed to travel three times as fast, which could have made it easier for the Marines to skirt the toughest defenses and land in more isolated spots.
But during the two decades that the vehicle has been in development, the range of antiship missiles has shot up to 75 miles, making Navy vessels vulnerable if they tried to bring in Marines to attack more sophisticated adversaries.
Mr. Gates has also said that a flat hull, needed for the vehicle to skim the surface of the water at 20 to 25 knots, would have exposed it to another threat -- roadside bombs -- once it came ashore.
But after years of breakdowns and poor reliability in testing, program officials said new prototypes had finally seemed on the verge of meeting minimal reliability standards.
Navy officials have suggested that Marines would only undertake assaults after enemy defenses had been largely subdued through weeks of bombing by ships and planes. But retired Marines say it is naive to think that the military would always have such a luxury of time or that bombing works that well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle in a test run off the coast of Oceanside, Calif. The $14.4 billion program has been plagued by delays and cost overruns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 The vehicle was conceived to carry Marines ashore and move inland without pausing on the beach, but has faced problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BEACHES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); KOREAN WAR (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); APPROVALS (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



139 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Obama Looks To Old Hands For Shake-Up

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama closed in Wednesday on a decision to fill two top positions and recharge his administration, stopping just short of naming a new chief of staff and a top economic adviser to guide the White House through a new period of divided government.
William M. Daley, who was commerce secretary in the Clinton administration, visited the West Wing to meet with the president and other advisers for a final series of discussions about serving as chief of staff. He has told associates he would accept the job if an offer was extended, and officials said Mr. Obama was favoring him.
Gene Sperling, a counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, was expected to be named on Friday as the director of the National Economic Council, the top economic policy job inside the White House. Mr. Sperling also held the position in the Clinton administration.
The moves would signal an effort by the White House to bring on experienced Washington hands with records of bipartisan deal making as it faces the realities of a Republican-controlled House, a slimmer Democratic majority in the Senate and a resurgent grass-roots conservative movement. 
The White House also announced Wednesday that Robert Gibbs, the press secretary and a close confidant to Mr. Obama, was stepping down to become an outside political adviser to the president and his re-election campaign.
Mr. Daley, currently a senior executive at JPMorgan Chase, has close ties to business and comes out of the Democratic Party's centrist movement. Mr. Sperling was among the architects of the tax deal that Mr. Obama reached last month with Senate Republicans, and played a big role in the bipartisan deficit-reduction deal President Bill Clinton negotiated in 1997.
The arrival of Mr. Daley at the White House on Wednesday underscored how close the president was to reaching a decision on selecting a chief of staff, the linchpin of a broad reorganization under way in the West Wing.
Mr. Obama had narrowed his choice for chief of staff to Mr. Daley and Pete Rouse, who has been serving in the post on an interim basis since Rahm Emanuel resigned last fall to run for mayor of Chicago. Mr. Rouse, who is said by colleagues not to have wanted the chief of staff job in the first place, drafted the reorganization plan, which ultimately led to the suggestion that Mr. Daley be considered for the post. Should Mr. Daley for some reason not get the job, officials said, Mr. Rouse would stay on.
The president, in a brief telephone interview on Wednesday, said he was eager to put the reorganization into place and make changes after two years on the job. He said he planned to have the personnel realignments finished in the coming days.
''The American people are expecting us to hit the ground running and start working with this new Congress to promote job growth and keep the recovery going,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're not going to be dilly-dallying along when it comes to making sure that we're executing on behalf of the American people.''
As Mr. Obama enters a new phase of his presidency, there are signs that he intends to operate differently. The White House said the president would speak on Feb. 7 to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a group that spent millions trying to defeat Democratic candidates and the policies of his administration.
While Mr. Daley and Mr. Sperling are perceived as centrists and could leave liberals further concerned about the administration's commitment to its views, the real evidence of where the president is heading will not come until the State of the Union address later this month and the unveiling of the president's budget in February.
The first in a series of staff changes began on Wednesday as Mr. Gibbs, the press secretary, announced that he was stepping down. He said he would leave in early February. His successor has not yet been chosen.
The departures of David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, and Jim Messina, a deputy chief of staff, both of whom are moving to Chicago to establish the president's re-election campaign, have been further impetus to the realignment among political and policy advisers alike. Several of the positions are interwoven, which has created an unusual air of uncertainty for a White House that has enjoyed considerable continuity.
''You'll be seeing announcements in due course,'' Mr. Obama said in the interview, in which he praised Mr. Gibbs, who has worked for him since April 2004, well before Mr. Obama's political star had risen. ''Obviously, we've got a lot of work to do.''
While Mr. Obama has worked closely with Mr. Sperling, he is far less familiar with Mr. Daley, even though they are both from Chicago. The men had their first serious conversation in two years last month, associates said, when the president first approached Mr. Daley about the position. He was invited to the White House on Wednesday afternoon to spend more time with Mr. Obama.
The president is scheduled to announce on Friday a new team of economic advisers during a visit to a window manufacturing company in Landover, Md., just outside Washington. Mr. Sperling would replace Lawrence H. Summers, who has returned to Harvard University.
Mr. Sperling, much like Mr. Obama, is a liberal but with a pragmatic bent. Some liberal activists have opposed his becoming the director because of his openness to compromise with Republicans, and because he once was a well-paid consultant to Goldman Sachs, managing a charitable program to teach skills to poor women in Africa and elsewhere.
Mr. Obama initially had expressed a preference for enlisting someone with business experience, as part of his broader outreach to the corporate community, alienated by his policies overhauling the health care and financial regulatory systems. The other leading candidates were Roger C. Altman, an investment banker and former deputy Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, and Richard Levin, an economist and longtime president of Yale University.
Ultimately, however, he decided the nature of the director's job and the demands of forging fiscal policy at a time of divided government argued for someone of Mr. Sperling's policy-making experience. As deputy director and then director of the National Economic Council under Mr. Clinton, Mr. Sperling worked on budget, tax and trade policies when Republicans controlled the House and Senate.
Administration officials say Mr. Sperling's chances for the job were all but sealed last month, when he played a lead role in the tax cuts compromise that Mr. Obama reached with Republicans in Congress's lame-duck session. Before that, he was an architect of legislation creating tax incentives and a lending facility for small businesses.
Mr. Obama is also expected to name a deputy to his budget director, Jacob J. Lew, and to move Ron Bloom, a Treasury adviser who oversaw the administration's bailout and restructuring of the auto industry, into the White House to continue advising him on manufacturing policy.
Mr. Bloom, whose career has included stints as both an investment banker and a top official at the steelworkers union, enjoys ties with both organized labor and business leaders.
''Every president, after a couple of years, is going to go through some sort of transition,'' Mr. Obama said, ''partly prompted by the fact that people are working so darn hard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Gibbs, who is stepping down as White House press secretary, leaving the White House briefing room on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MAYORS (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); PETE ROUSE (78%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



140 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Governor Urges 'Radical Reform' In Albany's Ways

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Elizabeth A. Harris and Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo called for ''a fundamental realignment'' of state government on Wednesday, saying New York needs to rethink the services it provides and face up to its overspending problem before it is too late.
''We need radical reform, we need a new approach, we need a new perspective,'' said Mr. Cuomo, who was giving his first State of the State address. ''And we need it now.''
The speech was emphatically pro-business and centrist, suggesting he is modeling himself more after his former boss, President Bill Clinton, than his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
The new governor mentioned the word ''tax'' or ''taxes'' 21 times, mostly to denounce them and promise to lower them. ''What made New York the Empire State was not a large government complex,'' he said. ''It was a vibrant private sector that was creating great jobs in the state of New York.'' 
The proposals laid out by Mr. Cuomo -- including reducing the number of agencies, authorities and departments by 20 percent and capping the annual growth of state government to the rate of inflation -- set up a clash with the more liberal Democrats who control the State Assembly.
In addition to freezing the salaries of most state workers, Mr. Cuomo would reduce spending on Medicaid and limit local property tax increases statewide.
''New York has no future as the tax capital of the nation,'' Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said in his speech. ''Our young people will not stay, businesses will not come, this has to change. Put it simply, the people of this state simply cannot afford to pay more taxes, period.''
The 47-minute speech also offered New Yorkers a different view of their new governor: he was highly animated in his expressions of frustration over the state's reputation and injected cornball humor, a PowerPoint slide show and even air quotes into the formal setting.
One of his PowerPoint slides showed Mr. Cuomo in a captain's uniform aboard a battleship, taking incoming fire from special interests while smaller ships captained by legislative leaders -- Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Assembly speaker, and Dean G. Skelos, a Republican who is the Senate majority leader, as naval officers -- sailed nearby.
Mr. Cuomo has a passionate if at times nostalgic view of the state's history, and he implored lawmakers to return New York to its previous glory, to an era when it was not a symbol of shame and scandal, a period that, in his version of history, typically ends on the day his father left office.
''We were the model for the nation,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''This has been an aberration, this recent past, the dysfunction of Albany, the gridlock of Albany, the corruption of Albany. This is not the true story of the New York State Legislature; it's not who we are, it's not what we do, it's not why we're here.''
He continued, as the Legislature applauded enthusiastically, to invite them to rehabilitate themselves. ''The New York State Legislature is the best legislature, historically, in the nation,'' he said, adding, ''That's who we can be again.''
The governor has much work ahead of him. Most of the proposals in his speech expanded on plans laid out during his campaign, and, notably, he failed to provide many details for how he will close the state's nearly $10 billion deficit. The emergency finance reinvention plan he promised, too, was broadly drawn.
''I think it was effective for setting the stage and really trying to communicate that these are serious issues, but there weren't a lot of specifics about the financial impact of the proposals he's making,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission.
Edward F. Cox, the chairman of the state Republican Party, expressed concern that Mr. Cuomo was adding new layers of bureaucracy, and criticized the governor's plan to set up regional economic development councils that would help develop and bring forward local leaders' ideas for economic development, and help state agencies administer aid.
''Ten regional councils, they all compete for goodies,'' Mr. Cox said. ''Where's the decision made? In Albany. We don't need more government programs.''
In many ways, though, the speech by Mr. Cuomo, a former housing secretary under President Clinton, reinforced his determination to show he will be a different kind of Democrat. Already, leaders of the State Assembly have been chafing, with members suggesting in recent days that new borrowing or higher taxes on the wealthy would be required to balance the budget, notions the governor has rejected. He said his fiscal plan would not involve tax increases or new borrowing.
Mr. Cuomo did reiterate his positions on social issues that are more in line with Democratic members' views, like his support for same-sex marriage and for expanding abortion rights.
Mr. Cuomo gave the speech in a convention center near the Capitol, breaking the tradition of holding it in the Assembly chamber, and he invited more than 1,000 members of the public -- perhaps to balance a crowd of legislators with mixed feelings about his remarks. He also invited the leaders of the Legislature to speak before him, and both leaders struck cooperative tones in their remarks.
Perhaps the most animated part of the speech came when Mr. Cuomo called for an overhaul of the state's juvenile justice system, criticizing the state for keeping open half-empty youth prisons upstate. He cast the issue as both an economic and a moral one.
''An incarceration program is not an employment program,'' Mr. Cuomo said, his voice rising to its loudest point during the speech.
''Don't put other people in juvenile justice facilities to give some people jobs,'' he added. ''That's not what this state is all about, and that has to end.''
Mr. Cuomo also said he had appointed the former Medicaid director of Wisconsin, Jason A. Helgerson, to import strategies used in that state to bring Medicaid spending under control. He proposed to set aside a portion of the state's annual education aid and use it to reward school districts that improve student performance; similar plans have been controversial on the federal level.
Mr. Cuomo's agenda appears to have more in common with that of the Senate Republicans, who regained control of the Senate in the fall elections. Mr. Skelos, of Nassau County, could be an ally for the governor, though there are likely to be tensions over how school aid is distributed across the state, particularly on Long Island.
Mr. Cuomo also laid out a number of steps aimed at improving the state government's ethics practices, though such proposals have been offered many times in Albany but failed to pass.
''The state of the state begins with an honest analysis of the crisis we face,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''In government as in life, you can never solve a problem if you refuse to acknowledge it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo (A1)
 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo giving his first State of the State address, with Lt. Gov. Robert J. Duffy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (74%); MEDICAID (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); HISTORY (60%); NAVIES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



141 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Dear Old Golden Rule Days

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
They're back! As has been frequently noted, the first day of a new Congress is very much like the first day of school. Except for the part where it's on TV and the fate of the largest economy on the planet hangs in the balance.
But when the 112th Congress opened on Wednesday, you definitely had a lot of excited new faces. The House of Representatives is flooded with freshmen, some of whom will embark upon a career of service that will allow them to remain in office for the next 20 years without ever impinging on our consciousness a single time. 
Others are pretty clearly gunning to become household names, like Representative Allen West, a Republican from Florida, who began his Congressional career by picking, for his top aide, a radio talk show host known for her colorful gift of gab. (''If ballots don't work, bullets will.'') Her employment was very brief, very stormy, and filled with questions about whether it was really a good idea to suggest that illegal immigrants be hanged and sent home in a box. Looking back on the episode, West assured a Fox interviewer, ''I didn't learn anything from it.''
The House on Wednesday was all about change, change, change, beginning, of course, with the new speaker. ''Be it providence or destiny, a man of uniquely American values has been called,'' intoned Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas in a nominating speech for John Boehner. ''He has lived the American dream and will protect it for our posterity.''
Nononono, Representative Hensarling! You do not want to talk about John Boehner and the American dream, because he will start to cry and we'll never get through this.
Sure enough, Boehner pulled out a handkerchief. But decorum was maintained.
Boehner began his tenure by promising more transparency, ''a free exchange of ideas,'' the chance to offer amendments on the floor and ''open debate.'' Also, of course, there would be lots of budget-cutting, and sponsors of bills are going to have to show how to pay for them.
His speech was noninflammatory, in keeping with his new role as a guy who everyone is beginning, in desperation, to tag as a potential bridge-builder. As Politico recently reported, Boehner hopes to model himself after Nicholas Longworth, a powerful speaker from the 1920s who also came from Ohio. Longworth is best remembered for having an office building named after him, and definitely not at all remembered for allowing a free exchange of ideas and open debate. But at least Boehner's not promising to be like Ronald Reagan.
After the reform rules are approved, the House will move on to the Republicans' first order of business, repeal of the health care reform law. The new rules would, in theory, require that the sponsors explain how to replace the $100 billion that the Congressional Budget Office says the law will save over the next 10 years. But this one does not have to be paid for, because the new majority feels the Congressional Budget Office is wrong. Anyhow, they won the election.
Also, there will be no amendments.
I'm willing to cut the new leadership a little slack. If you're going to bring up a wildly partisan and totally symbolic bill, there really isn't any point in fooling around with cost estimates and opposition amendments. It would be like putting up warning signs for the wolves before you shoot them from a small plane.
Let's wait to see what the new House majority does on its much-vaunted promise to immediately cut $100 billion -- or up to 30 percent -- of discretionary domestic spending this very year.
Although, House aides told The Times's Jackie Calmes, maybe you should make that $50 billion. Whatever. Boehner has definitely gotten the ball rolling by cutting Congress's own budget by 2.6 percent.
Meanwhile, over in the Senate, the thought of change was also in the air. ''They say you can never step in the same river twice,'' said Majority Leader Harry Reid, who went on to assure his listeners that it was also not possible to step in the same Senate twice.
There was lots of discussion of reform in the Senate, too, and the chamber jumped into a vigorous debate on Democratic proposals to change the rules. The plan would decimate several venerable traditions, like the one that allows one senator to bring all progress on a bill or a nomination to a screeching halt without having to reveal his or her identity.
Everybody is now going home for two weeks to think about it.
This sort of change can only be made on the first day of business, but fortunately, Reid has invoked a special rule that allows him to keep the chamber at opening day until the end of the month. This is something that happens only in the United States Senate and early episodes of ''Star Trek.'' We are waiting to see if the senators continue to age while time stands still.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); APPROVALS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (52%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); ALLEN WEST (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); RONALD REAGAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



142 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: How Six Companies Failed to Survive 2010

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
In business, numbers usually tell the story. If you use them to judge 2010, it was probably a better year for small businesses than 2009. In the first quarter of 2010, for example -- the most recent period for which the data are available -- there was a net loss of 96,000 companies with fewer than 100 employees, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 2009, the loss was 400,000 companies.
Numbers, however, do not tell the whole story. Behind every one of those small businesses that failed was an entrepreneur with an idea and a dream. ''It was very painful,'' said one of those owners, Elizabeth Kavanaugh, whose 12-year-old business, Large Format Digital, closed in March. ''My husband and I are still struggling with the aftermath.''
Marc Hedlund, co-founder of Wesabe, a now-defunct personal finance site, wrote on his blog that while he was ''enormously sad'' about the closing of his business, he hoped that by writing about the difficulties Wesabe faced he would ''inform other people who try to start companies in the future.'' In that spirit, here are the stories of six small businesses that closed their doors in 2010. 
Wesabe
A personal finance Web site based in San Francisco. Wesabe opened in 2006 and closed in July.
AT ITS PEAK Wesabe was one of the first movers in the Web 2.0 financial space. Its founders, Mr. Hedlund and Jason Knight, envisioned a site that would help consumers budget their money and make better spending decisions. The company received two rounds of venture capital financing totaling $4.7 million and signed up 150,000 members in its first year.
WHAT WENT WRONG Ten months after Wesabe's introduction, a competitor, Mint.com, appeared. As Mr. Hedlund acknowledges, Mint had a better name and better design and was easier to use. Within nine months, Mint had 300,000 users and $17 million in venture financing. In 2009, Mint was sold to Intuit for $170 million.
LOOKING BACK Mr. Hedlund wishes he had simplified the consumer's experience. ''We wanted to help people,'' he said, ''but it was too much work to get that help.''
Gotham Concierge
A personal assistance and professional organizing service in Manhattan, Gotham Concierge opened in 2004 and closed in August.
AT ITS PEAK In the summer of 2008, Alison Kero, Gotham's founder, was running errands and handling tasks for more clients than she could handle, from busy housewives to disorganized lawyers and hedge fund managers.
WHAT WENT WRONG As home prices and the stock market plummeted in the fall of 2008, Ms. Kero's clients began cutting back. She spent thousands of dollars on advertising that did not work. Worse, she became increasingly frustrated with the tedium of running errands. In July, when one of her two remaining clients forgot about a meeting -- and then blamed Ms. Kero for not reminding her about it -- she decided to close up shop.
LOOKING BACK ''I realize now I didn't love what I did,'' she said. ''I loved running a business.'' In late October, she moved to Denver and started a pet care business, Alicat Pet Service.
iParents.com
A social network for parents and families, based in Wyncote, Pa., iParents.com opened in 2008 and closed in January 2010.
AT ITS PEAK Don Milley founded iParents.com when Facebook was still gaining traction with middle-aged people. ''iParents was a place where family members would be able to interact with each other online, share schedules, news, photos and coordinate activities,'' Mr. Milley said. Nine months after opening, the site had 70,000 members and venture capitalists were interested in investing about $3 million -- if the network could get to 100,000 members.
WHAT WENT WRONG Too much time and money were spent on enhanced functionality, like text-alert reminders about appointments and the ability to turn family photos into refrigerator magnets. ''All the bells and whistles diluted our premise -- to be a community for parents and families,'' Mr. Milley said. In late 2009, he hired a marketing company in Florida to do online outreach and run a photo contest to try to get to 100,000 members. He paid $18,000 for the work and never heard from the company again. ''That was the death knell for us,'' he said.
LOOKING BACK Although Facebook was a competitor, Mr. Milley felt there was ample room for iParents, too: ''The cause of death was really a lack of focus on building a community -- that, and we ran out of working capital.'' In November, Mr. Milley started PerDiemDeals.com, which sells Groupon-style coupons to small-business owners.
Large Format Digital
Based in Edgerton, Wis., the company printed advertisements on the side panels of trucks. It opened in 1998 and closed in March.
AT ITS PEAK In 2006, business took off, growing about 60 percent a year until 2008. In 2007, sales were $3 million and the company had 15 employees.
WHAT WENT WRONG When the business was growing, Ms. Kavanaugh and Jeff Rank, her co-founder and husband, decided to spend $1 million to build their own installation facility, which they believed would save them money in the long term. The mortgage closed on the same day in September 2008 that Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy. Within a month, Large Format's workload fell 50 percent. ''It was literally like someone turned off a faucet,'' said Ms. Kavanaugh.
LOOKING BACK ''I wish I had spoken to an attorney right after the closing and a C.P.A. with small-business expertise,'' said Ms. Kavanaugh. ''Maybe they would have told us we didn't have to go through with building.'' Her remaining six employees bought her customer list and started a similar company, Fetch Graphics. Ms. Kavanaugh was hired as social program manager.
Varvitsiotis Architecture
Based in Eugene, Ore., the firm did mostly commercial work. It opened in 1996 and closed in February.
AT ITS PEAK In 2008, Varvitsiotis had six employees, more than half a million dollars in annual revenue and five projects under way -- enough work for two years. Richard Barbis, the founder, had plans to build the business into a 15- to 20-person firm and was grooming two employees to be partners.
WHAT WENT WRONG When the stock market fell in 2008, clients started to cancel projects. Too much of the company's work was in the private sector, Mr. Barbis said, as opposed to the public sector where many projects were financed with government stimulus money. With work scarce, bigger firms started competing with Varvitsiotis for the smaller projects it usually landed.
LOOKING BACK ''We were hit from all sides,'' said Mr. Barbis. His new business, Opa Cove, sells sporting good products for children.
Petite Palate
A gourmet baby food company based in Long Island City, N.Y., Petite Palate opened in 2006 and closed in October.
AT ITS PEAK In the spring of 2007, Petite Palate's organic frozen baby food was sold on Amazon Grocery and in about 100 stores in the Northeast and Midwest. The founders, Lisa Beels, a personal chef, and Christine Naylor, a former cookbook publicist, were presenting their business plan to potential investors, hoping to raise $2.5 million to $5 million.
WHAT WENT WRONG In the fall of 2008, potential investors, skittish about the economy, pulled out. The company was struggling to get its products into the freezer section of grocery stores -- yet Ms. Beels and Ms. Naylor stuck to their concept because they believed frozen food was healthier for children than food in jars or pouches.
LOOKING BACK Ms. Beels said she and Ms. Naylor should have been more open to producing shelf-stable formulations. ''It took us a long time to acknowledge that and by then we were in debt and couldn't support the company,'' Ms. Beels said. Her new personal chef business is called Haute Palate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Kavanaugh and Jeff Rank operated Large Format Digital until it closed in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WEB 2 (72%); STATISTICS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); FINANCING ROUNDS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); WEB SITES (68%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (64%); HOME PRICES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



143 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: After the Death of Its Owner, Elaine's Is Handed Down to the Longtime Manager

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Ever since the death last month of Elaine Kaufman, the voluble restaurateur who for 47 years ran an Upper East Side saloon and literary landmark, speculation has swirled around its future. Who would inherit the establishment she presided over in such a single-minded way?
On Wednesday, that question was answered: She left the restaurant -- Elaine's -- and much of her estate to her longtime manager, according to her will. 
Ms. Kaufman, who was 81 when she died on Dec. 3 of complications from emphysema, also left two five-story buildings to the manager, Diane Becker: the two buildings on Second Avenue in which Elaine's occupies first-floor space beneath signature yellow awnings. Ms. Kaufman bought the buildings in the late 1960s, a spokeswoman for the restaurant, Cindy Carway, said.
Ms. Becker, who has worked at Elaine's for 26 years, said the plan to keep the restaurant open had not changed in the month since Ms. Kaufman died. ''The staff is still here, and we're going to try to run it as usual,'' she said. ''The only missing link is Elaine.''
There had been speculation that other restaurateurs were interested in Elaine's even before Ms. Kaufman's death. Ms. Becker said Ms. Kaufman had been ''exploring options after 2008, when the economy tanked.''
''She did make a proposal to lease the place,'' Ms. Becker said. ''She would have been part of the operation, but nothing panned out.''
Ms. Becker would not discuss who had spoken with Ms. Kaufman about that idea. ''Everybody signed confidentiality agreements,'' she said.
The restaurant, at 1703 Second Avenue, near East 88th Street, was a place where a certain slice of New York went to see and be seen, and that made it something of a tourist attraction for another slice: people who wanted to sit a few tables away from those seeing and being seen.
Ms. Kaufman understood that. In the days after she died, regulars at Elaine's repeated a story of the time she was asked where the men's room was and, nodding in the direction of a man in the middle of the room, said, ''Take a right at Michael Caine.''
Ms. Kaufman drew up the will, to be filed in Surrogate's Court in Manhattan on Thursday, in 2007. It names Ms. Becker and an Upper East Side lawyer, Robert L. Tucker, as executors.
It stipulates that her co-op apartment, a few blocks from the restaurant, is to be sold to pay estate taxes and $230,000 in bequests. Ms. Kaufman left $50,000 to each of her four nephews, Jesse Klein, Jody Klein, Richard Kaufman and Daniel Kaufman.
The will also spells out gifts of $10,000 to three longtime employees: Giovanni Adamo, the maitre d'hotel at Elaine's, whom regulars call Gianni; Barbara O'Connell, a part-time personal secretary; and Odette Pedru, Ms. Kaufman's longtime housekeeper.
The will leaves the rest of Ms. Kaufman's estate to Ms. Becker, who said that because Ms. Kaufman died in 2010, her estate would not be subject to federal estate tax.
But she said that the state taxes on the estate had not been arrived at, and when asked if the contents of Ms. Kaufman's apartment would be sold, she said, ''If the estate owes X amount of dollars and the apartment only brings in minus X, where are you going to go?''
She would not discuss the artworks that filled the walls in the apartment. Ms. Kaufman had accumulated paintings and prints over the years, many from people she knew.
In 2009, Ms. Kaufman showed a reporter a Jamie Wyeth drawing that Mr. Wyeth himself had given her. On the walls leading to her dining room were century-old French posters. On a shelf was a present from George M. Steinbrenner, who often celebrated the Yankees' triumphs at Elaine's: a baseball.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Diane Becker, left, in 2005 with Elaine Kaufman, who died Dec. 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK T. KAISER/PATRICK MCMULLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); WILLS (78%); ESTATE PLANNING (71%); ESTATE TAX (71%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (63%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (55%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



144 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Public Workers: The New Scapegoats?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Public Workers Facing Outrage in Budget Crisis'' (front page, Jan. 2):
Anyone who thinks unionized public employees are getting outrageous pay and benefits, and that this is the chief cause of state and municipal budget crises, should try living on a typical public employee's salary -- or pension, for that matter.
Trust me, it isn't that great. When I was hired by the Human Resources Administration, one of New York City's largest unionized agencies, last year, the starting salary was $40,244 -- because I had worked for another city agency within the previous two years. Otherwise, the starting salary is considerably less. 
As for benefits, those, too, have been dramatically slashed over the years.
The real problem is that taxpayers want all sorts of services, but when it comes to paying taxes to finance those services, it's Tea Party time. The question people need to be asking is not ''How much can we squeeze the unions?'' but ''If we don't want higher taxes, what are we willing to give up in the way of benefits from government?'' Note the ''we''; no fair volunteering other people to take the hit.
I don't doubt that some horror stories about union excesses are true. But scapegoating public workers and forcing them to take brutal cuts in compensation won't help nearly as much as some people say, because there simply isn't anywhere near as much fat to cut as anti-union types claim.
Eric B. Lipps Staten Island, Jan. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
I feel bad for Marie Corfield, the New Jersey teacher who tangled with Gov. Chris Christie over state education cuts. She is not the problem. The bureaucrats (including school administrators) and the politicians are.
Americans have seen federal, state and local payrolls increase dramatically in the last 10 years, yet our educational system is lagging behind the world, we are no closer to energy independence, the environment is no better and our inner cities are still a disgrace.
My outrage is not directed at the government workers on the front line. I am outraged by the bloated bureaucracy and those who enable it.
Lawrence P. English Simsbury, Conn., Jan. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
Last week's blizzard is a perfect example of what's to come. The lack of personnel in New York City to quickly clean up the snow was a direct result of the budget cuts demanded by those who say that public employees are riding the gravy train, and that local government is bloated.
You can't have it both ways -- if you want services, you have to pay for them. With cutbacks come cuts in services. Simple as that.
Charles Yochim Yonkers, Jan. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
Public workers select and join unions to have bargaining power, to increase compensation and to tighten work rules, but they can't always be moving forward; in hard times a few steps backward in collective bargaining are necessary to save jobs.
Public employees gain their bargaining strength and legal status from public and political support. But if the public becomes irritated by union stubbornness in an economic downturn, support will be withdrawn and public officials, instead of currying favor with unions, will show everyone how tough they are by fighting unions.
So what can the public-sector unions do? Understand that they live in a paradox.
Thrive by bargaining hard in good times, and being flexible in hard times, and know what the members want (to keep their jobs) and what the public wants (for no one to come through hard times unscathed).
Gary Chaison Worcester, Mass., Jan. 2, 2011
The writer is a professor of industrial relations at the Graduate School of Management, Clark University.
To the Editor:
It's sad that a segment of the American public has decided to attack and try to bring down the one last bastion of decent middle-class work with decent benefits: the civil servant work force.
Apparently, many Americans feel that teachers, police officers and other public workers should have poor health insurance and pensions and fully participate in the current decline in prosperity in the United States for all but the upper middle class and wealthy.
In countries where civil servants are poorly compensated, they typically resort to demanding bribes to make ends meet. Corruption in those countries, as a result, runs rampant.
I don't look forward to the day in the United States when, as has already happened to me in other countries, a police officer pulls me over for one reason only: he needs some cash.
Stuart Rojstaczer Palo Alto, Calif., Jan. 2, 2011
To the Editor:
Your article buried the lead. Not until the 12th paragraph does it properly note, ''A raft of recent studies found that public salaries, even with benefits included, are equivalent to or lag slightly behind those of private sector workers,'' with a similar education.
If state and local governments are paying the same or less than the private sector for equivalent talent, what is the problem?
Joshua Ruby Cambridge, Mass., Jan. 2, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



145 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Health Spending Rose In '09, but at Low Rate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Total national health spending grew by 4 percent in 2009, the slowest rate of increase in 50 years, as people lost their jobs, lost health insurance and deferred medical care, the federal government reported on Wednesday.
Still, health care accounted for a larger share of a smaller economy -- a record 17.6 percent of the total economic output in 2009, the report said. The economy contracted while health spending continued to grow.
The nation spent $2.5 trillion on health care in 2009, for an average of $8,086 a person, and the recession had a profound influence. 
''Many consumers decreased their use of health care goods and services, partly because they had lost employer-based private health insurance coverage and partly because their household income had declined,'' said Anne B. Martin, an economist and principal author of the report, issued by the office of the actuary at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
In many cases, Ms. Martin said, people decided to ''forgo health care services they could not afford.''
The number of visits to doctors' offices apparently declined. Many hospitals reported fewer admissions, as patients put off medical procedures. Spending on dental services declined slightly. Many hospitals and other health care providers reduced their capital investments. Spending on doctors' services in 2009 increased at the slowest pace since 1996, according to the new federal study, being published in the journal Health Affairs.
Partly offsetting the slowdown in private health spending was a rapid increase in Medicaid spending, driven by the addition of 3.5 million people to the rolls.
Medicaid, created in 1965 to provide health care for low-income people, is financed jointly by the federal government and the states. The economic stimulus program approved in February 2009 temporarily increased the federal share, to help states in dire fiscal straits cope with a growing need.
''Federal Medicaid spending increased 22 percent in 2009, the highest rate of growth since 1991,'' Ms. Martin said, while ''state spending decreased 9.8 percent, the largest decline in the program's history.''
Federal officials emphasized that none of the data reflected the impact of the new health care law, which President Obama signed in March 2010.
Spending on health care by private insurance companies grew a modest 1.3 percent in 2009, as the number of people with private coverage declined by 3.2 percent, or 6.3 million people. At the same time, out-of-pocket spending by consumers rose just four-tenths of 1 percent, compared with an increase of 3.1 percent in 2008.
Despite the economy's downturn, retail spending on prescription drugs ''increased more rapidly in 2009 than in 2008, as a result of more rapid growth in the prices of drugs and in the number of prescriptions dispensed,'' the report said.
Retail purchases of prescription drugs account for $1 of every $10 spent on health care, almost $250 billion of the $2.5 trillion total in 2009.
Medicaid spending accounted for 15 percent of all health spending and totaled $373.9 billion in 2009, the report said. Many of the new Medicaid recipients are relatively healthy children and adults of working age. The new health care law calls for a major additional expansion in Medicaid eligibility, starting in 2014.
The recession ran from December 2007 to June 2009. Even after it ended, the economy was sluggish, and unemployment continued to rise. So the growth of health spending outpaced the growth of the overall economy in 2009, federal officials said.
The share of the economy devoted to health care rose one percentage point in 2009, the largest one-year increase in a half-century of record-keeping.
Health spending, as tracked by the government, has grown at a slower rate every year since 2002, when it increased 9.5 percent. The slowdown was more pronounced in 2008 and 2009 because of the recession.
Out-of-pocket spending by consumers -- which includes deductibles, co-payments and the purchase of goods and services not covered by insurance -- accounted for 12 percent of all health spending and totaled almost $300 billion in 2009, the report said.
In addition, it said, health insurance premiums increased more slowly in 2009 than per-person spending on medical benefits under private health plans. Insurers spent more on prescription drugs and ''more on benefits for existing enrollees,'' it said.
Republicans pounced on the new numbers. ''No one should take solace in the fact that health spending grew at a lower rate in 2009,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, who is in line to be the senior Republican on the Finance Committee.
Mr. Hatch said the new health care law could lead to ''crushing increases in health costs and premiums.''
By contrast, the chief Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster, has estimated that the new law will lead to an increase of only nine-tenths of 1 percent in national health spending over 10 years.
Uninsured people who gain coverage will use more health care, Mr. Foster said, but the law is also supposed to reduce the growth of Medicare payments to many health care providers.
Medicare spending reached $502 billion in 2009, meaning that the program, for older Americans and the disabled, accounts for $1 of every $5 spent on health care. Enrollment in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program declined, as some beneficiaries chose to enroll in private Medicare Advantage plans, federal officials said.
Over all, Medicare spending rose 7.9 percent in 2009, the same rate as in 2008, while enrollment grew about 2 percent, the report said.
Medicare spending increased an average of 2.3 percent for each person in a private Medicare Advantage plan and 6.9 percent for each person in the traditional program.
The new health care law cuts Medicare payments to private plans. Many studies have found that Medicare spends more on people in such private plans than it would spend for the same beneficiaries in the original Medicare program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many hospitals had fewer admissions in 2009. Kristen Mann soothed her daughter Kira at Children's Hospital in Aurora, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Rate of Health Care Spending: National spending on health care increased only 4 percent from 2008 to 2009, the smallest annual increase in decades. (Sources: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
Bureau of Economic Analysis
 National Bureau of Economic Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (83%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INSURANCE (77%); MEDICARE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); DENTISTRY (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); WRITERS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); DRUG PRICES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (83%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



146 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Giving Those Old Gadgets A Proper Green Burial

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
This weekend, Josh Mohrer and Petra Cramer are moving to an apartment on Upper West Side of Manhattan, free of the discarded gadgets that have been collecting dust in their East Village closet: a PalmPilot, a first-generation iPhone, an iPod, a BlackBerry and a Texas Instruments graphing calculator.
Moving is the perfect time to sell or give away the used electronics on Craigslist, Mr. Mohrer said, adding, ''We want to own less in general, and antique tech stuff is a good place to start.'' 
Many Americans have outdated technology in their homes, especially after the holidays when the average consumer planned to spend a record $232 on electronics gifts, according to the Consumer Electronics Association.
The average household now has 25 devices, the group says. And a November report, ''Tackling High-Tech Trash,'' from Demos, a public policy organization focused on economic fairness and sustainability, cited government data showing that Americans owned three billion electronic products, with a turnover rate of about 400 million units each year.
Yet less than 14 percent of those gadgets are recycled, the report noted.
There are, though, many outlets for consumers to recycle, donate or trade-in goods. The Environmental Protection Agency has a list, and the electronics association provides links with a ZIP code search feature to find corporate recycling programs and programs for donating used goods to charitable organizations. Earth911 offers an iPhone app.
Best Buy has been recycling most consumer electronics in its stores for two years. Consumers can drop off, at no charge, smaller items like CDs/DVDs, rechargeable batteries and cellphones at kiosks at the entrance of its stores.
Best Buy will also take up to two larger items a day at customer service, including televisions and monitors up to 32 inches, computer C.P.U.'s, VCRs/DVD players, phones, remotes and keyboards. The company charges a $10 recycling fee for items with screens, but gives customers a $10 store gift card immediately.
Slightly used items can be traded in for a gift card. Certain big TVs and appliances can be hauled away for a fee. The removal is free if the customer buys a newer appliance from Best Buy to replace the old one.
For its fiscal year ending March 1, Best Buy anticipates recycling 80 million pounds of goods, up from 70 million pounds the previous year, said Kelly Groehler, a spokeswoman. About 75 to 80 percent of that is computers and monitors.
''We realize how big the stream is,'' she said. ''We are trying to make it as easy as possible to recycle.''
The $170 billion consumer electronics industry recycled 200 million pounds in 2009, according to the electronics association's 2010 Sustainability Report released this week. The association estimated that recycling rose to 300 million pounds in 2010
Other companies have also introduced programs. Goodwill Industries has joined with Dell Computer to make it easy for consumers to donate unwanted computer equipment. Waste Management offers recycling drop-off sites across the country and sells Think Green From Home electronics recycling kits, in three sizes.
Most cellphone service providers, like AT&T and Verizon, will take used phones, and many retailers like Target, Apple and Best Buy offer trade-in programs. Gazelle.com works with retailers like Costco and NewEgg.com for dedicated trade-in programs, but anyone can go to the site to get cash for their gadgets.
In November, Bobby Lozano, a freshman at Jefferson College of Health Sciences, Roanoke, Va., sold his three-year-old iPod Nano and two-year-old LG EnV Touch Verizon phone to Gazelle. ''I got an iPhone,'' he said, ''so I no longer needed the other two.''
He said he had chosen Gazelle because ''my roommate used it and raved about it.'' Gazelle valued the items at $70, he said, and sent the money directly to his PayPal account.
In addition to estimating a gadget's value, Gazelle technicians also erase the contents of its hard drive before reselling, said Israel Ganot, founder of the site. ''Wiping hard drives and device contents is not easy,'' he said, ''but we stand behind it.''
Gazelle refurbishes and resells the devices at its Gazelle Store on eBay and overseas.
Gazelle accepts 250,000 kinds of items, and points consumers to local retailers for those it does not accept online.
David Pogue recently asked his Twitter followers for suggestions on what to do with outdated items. The responses included proposals that manufacturers not crank out so many models and rely more on software upgrades.
Despite the options for consumers, the Demos report noted that the United States lacks a uniform system for recycling electronics, and instead relies on a patchwork of voluntary ''take back'' initiatives and legislated state and local electronics recycling programs.
About two dozen states have passed laws mandating the recycling of electronic waste, according to the Electronics TakeBack Coalition, which promotes responsible recycling. All of the laws except for California's require the manufacturer to pay for recycling. New Jersey's law took effect on Jan. 1, while New York's law comes into force on April 1.
Elizabeth Grossman, who wrote the Demos report and is the author of the book ''High Tech Trash'' (2007, Island Press), said the manufacturer take-back programs, which the coalition grades annually, should be a consumer's first stop. ''I like the idea that it closes the loop on the product lifecycle for the manufacturer,'' she said.
In the report, she offers six recommendations to reduce the stream of e-waste. One is to expand the scope of products included in the manufacturer programs. Another is to increase the number of recyclers that are certified through a program run by e-Stewards.org. That group maintains a list of recyclers that adhere to a set of international standards for responsible recycling, which, among other requirements, prohibits toxic waste from going to landfills or incinerators.
Ms. Grossman said that recycling electronics should be as easy as buying them. Recycling still requires a lot of research, she pointed out. ''It's not as comprehensive, not as easy and not as convenient as it should be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Petra Cramer and Josh Mohrer sorting through a pile of discarded electronic devices while preparing to move to a new apartment in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Electronics to be recycled at Gazelle .com. The Boston-based company also buys, refurbishes and resells older electronic devices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (86%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (75%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (73%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (72%); CHARITIES (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); COMPUTER MONITORS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



147 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fund Losses Hit States Hard, Data Show

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
When total state government revenues across the nation plummeted by a record-breaking 30.8 percent in 2009, the steep investment losses of pension funds proved to be an even bigger drain on state coffers than recession-battered tax collections, according to census data released Wednesday.
States reported $1.1 trillion in total revenues in 2009, down from $1.6 trillion a year earlier -- the steepest drop the United States Census Bureau has reported since it began collecting data on state government finances in 1951. 
Tax collections fell by $66 billion, blowing a hole in the operating budgets of many states. But the biggest losses will be felt only in the future: states reported a $477 billion decline in what the census calls ''insurance trust revenue,'' mostly from pension funds but also from funds for unemployment insurance and workers' compensation.
It is hardly a secret that the bursting of the housing bubble and the Great Recession pummeled state finances. But the new census data, for the fiscal year that ended for most states at the end of June 2009, provides the most comprehensive view yet of the decisions states made in the year they saw their revenues fall by record amounts.
The data told a tale of states struggling to adapt to the new fiscal reality. Thanks to an infusion of federal aid, largely from the stimulus, states saw their general revenues decrease by only 1.4 percent -- but general expenditures by state governments rose by 3 percent.
The downturn gave states new priorities and needs. As more people lost their jobs, states found themselves paying $66 billion in unemployment benefits in 2009, up from the $35 billion that they had paid a year earlier.
Donald J. Boyd, a senior fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, said the new census data showed how state governments as a whole began to respond to the recession in what he called ''the year of shock and awe for state government taxes.''
Public welfare spending rose 6.1 percent in 2009, as needs rose during the prolonged recession and the federal stimulus bill provided more money to states for programs like Medicaid and the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families. But at the same time, Mr. Boyd pointed out, ''spending on some of the bread-and-butter operations of government came to a virtual standstill'' as corrections spending grew by only 1 percent, spending on government administration grew by less than half a percent, and spending on parks and recreation fell by 4.6 percent.
Even though President Obama only signed the stimulus bill into law in February 2009, midway through the fiscal year for most states, the injection of federal money helped offset some of the loss of tax revenue: total federal grants to the states rose by nearly 13 percent that year to $477.7 billion. The stimulus money is set to run out this summer -- leaving states facing big deficits next year, since their tax collections, which have begun to rise again, are still far below their pre-recession levels.
The biggest loss recorded -- the $477 billion decline in revenues earned by the pension funds and other social insurance trust funds -- had little immediate impact on state budgets. But its effects are likely to be felt for years.
''It is truly astounding,'' Mr. Boyd said of the losses. ''They don't translate immediately into budgetary stress for states. But what does happen is through the wizardry of actuarial valuations, they will drive pension contributions by states and localities up considerably in the coming years, and that's true despite the good stock market of 2009, and the relatively good stock market of 2010.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); MEDICAID (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FAMILY (69%); HOUSING BUBBLE (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (53%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



148 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: State Lawmakers Outline Plans to End Birthright Citizenship, Drawing Outcry

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Conservative legislators from five states opened a national campaign on Wednesday to end the automatic granting of American citizenship to children born in the United States of illegal immigrants.
At a news conference here timed to coincide with the start of a new Congress, Republican state lawmakers introduced two model measures curtailing citizenship rights for children of illegal immigrants. The legislators said the measures would be introduced in at least 14 states.
They acknowledged that the state bills were not likely to have a practical effect anytime soon, since they will quickly be challenged as unconstitutional. But the legislators -- from Arizona, Georgia, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and South Carolina -- said they chose the first day of a new Republican-controlled House of Representatives to start an effort that they hope will end with a Supreme Court decision on birthright citizenship, and spur legislative action in Washington. 
In a separate effort, Representative Steve King of Iowa, a Republican who will be chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said Wednesday that as soon as the new House members were sworn in, he would introduce a bill to eliminate birthright citizenship for children when both parents were illegal immigrants.
But it was the state lawmakers' initiative that moved the highly emotional issue of birthright citizenship, which had long been marginal in the immigration debate, to the front of the Republicans' immigration agenda in the 112th Congress.
''We are here to send a very public message to Congress,'' said Daryl Metcalfe, a Republican state representative from Pennsylvania. ''We want to bring an end to the illegal alien invasion that is having such a negative impact on our states.''
The states' campaign brought an outcry from immigrant, Latino and African-American civil rights organizations. Several of them announced they had formed a coalition to bring court challenges to any birthright citizenship laws that passed state legislatures.
''For the first time since the end of the Civil War, these legislators want to pass state laws that would create two tiers of citizens, a modern-day caste system,'' said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Human and Civil Rights, which includes many African-American groups.
His group is in the new coalition, along with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the National Council of La Raza, among others.
The lawmakers were challenged even before they finished speaking. The news conference, held at the National Press Club, was interrupted four times by protesters who stood one by one to brandish posters and accuse the lawmakers of intolerance and racism. One protester cited welcoming words for immigrants inscribed at the site of the Statue of Liberty.
A brief scuffle erupted when a man who was a supporter of the state initiatives seized one protester by the arm and tried to march him out of the room. Also present were supporters of the lawmakers, who clapped and cheered.
One model measure the lawmakers presented was a bill creating a new definition of state citizenship, in addition to national citizenship, which would exclude babies born in the state with two illegal immigrant parents.
The second measure was a compact between states, in which they would agree to issue distinctive birth certificates to babies whose parents could not show legal immigration status.
The state bills would also deny citizenship to newborn children of hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants who live in the United States on temporary visas.
The right to United States citizenship for everyone born on American soil is described in the 14th Amendment. The state legislators argued that one phrase in the amendment -- which guarantees citizenship to everyone born or naturalized in this country ''and subject to the jurisdiction thereof'' -- signals that it was not intended to apply to children of immigrants who do not have lawful status.
The 14th Amendment was adopted in the wake of the Civil War to guarantee citizenship to the American-born children of freed slaves. In the debate on Wednesday, there were frequent references to the Civil War.
Daniel B. Verdin, a senior Republican state senator from South Carolina, called illegal immigration ''a malady of epic proportions,'' which he said compared with ''the malady of slavery.''
The state lawmakers said illegal immigrants had a dire effect on state budgets. Mr. Metcalfe said that Pennsylvania was facing ''nothing less than an invasion,'' and that Congress had a constitutional responsibility to protect states from foreign invasion.
Kris Kobach, a constitutional lawyer who was recently elected secretary of state of Kansas, said the proposed laws were carefully written to avoid usurping federal authority, but to ''revive the concept of state citizenship.''
But opponents of the proposals said that determining American citizenship was clearly a federal matter in which states had no legal role.
''We believe these laws cannot survive constitutional scrutiny,'' said Lucas Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union, another group in the new coalition.
Mr. King, the Iowa congressman, said the birthright citizenship bill he would introduce might not be his first priority for passage. He said he would focus first on legislation to crack down on employers who hire unauthorized immigrant workers.
Several House lawmakers said Mr. King's citizenship bill could pass, although it was likely to be defeated in the Senate, where Democrats hold a majority.
''I would have said a year ago that Republicans would not embrace anything so drastic,'' said Representative Charlie Gonzalez, a Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ''But anything is possible now.''
Some Latino Republicans expressed dismay that the party was making birthright citizenship a central element of its immigration policy.
''Rather than attacking babies born in the United States and the Constitution, we demand they target our suffering economy,'' said Deedee Garcia Blase, a spokeswoman for Somos Republicans, a Texas-based organization of Latino Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CITIZENSHIP (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); APPEALS (53%)

PERSON: STEVE KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



149 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Running, Jumping and Hardly Aging on the Track

BYLINE: By MIKE TIERNEY

 BODY:
MARIETTA, Ga. -- Philippa Raschker, the most enduring female athlete you've never heard of, is flying solo, dashing down a track that rings a high school football field.
With no discus or shot or javelin or hurdles handy, no pole vault or high jump or long jump pit on the premises, the day's casual workout -- conducted alone, as usual -- is limited to sprints, her specialty.
Trim in two-piece running garb, she is economy in motion, reddish-brown hair like a jet's contrails, painted fingernails glistening in the sun. Why wouldn't a publication that annually celebrates the contours of athletes' physiques and appearances, causing double takes, consider her for its pages?
Except one thing. 
''Wait a minute,'' Raschker had told the caller from ESPN the Magazine who invited her to pose while loping naked in its issue called The Body. ''Do you know I'm 63 years old?''
Assured the magazine did, she eagerly accepted, then spent a full day in upstate New York, running and log-jumping into an icy swimming hole at a photographer's behest.
For Raschker -- widely known as Phil, except when others on the World Masters Athletics circuit that she has lorded over for nearly three decades lovingly address her as Grandmother -- disrobing on the run was a welcome out-of-body-and-clothes experience.
''I feel very good about my body,'' she said, attributing her lack of prudishness to her European roots and comfort at topless beaches. ''I take care of it. I hope they'll have me back when I'm 70.''
Surely she will be competing then, at something. The hunger to lock horns athletically is as acute as it was 50 years ago, when Raschker aged out of daycare in her native West Germany and enlisted with a track club.
At age 20, she moved to the United States, began dabbling in track and quit a new job when the manager denied her a day off for a meet, according to a book about older competitors, ''Second Wind: The Rise of the Ageless Athlete.''
Scurrying to as many as 36 competitions a year, Raschker became a regular at the United States nationals. She was a women's pole-vault pioneer. An adventurous sort, she has vaulted against men and even engaged them in the decathlon, in which only men normally compete.
At one meet, she entered an alien event, the triple jump, against men after two of them took her by the arms and showed her the technique. At another, she was roped at the last second into the steeplechase, which she had never practiced, to help fill out a small field.
It is the global masters program, in which nobody ever ages out, that Raschker has turned into her domain.
In its world indoor and outdoor championships combined, for women 35 and older, Raschker has won 71 gold medals, 19 silver and 7 bronze.
She has set more than 200 records and still holds 63 United States and 18 world marks. The numbers are made possible by the masters format of dividing participants into five-year age increments (i.e., 60 to 64), allowing for rebirth every five years.
Its world meet -- in Sacramento this summer -- will draw up to 12,000 athletes. While most entrants choose a few events, a la carte, Raschker treats such gatherings as a buffet. Typically, she enters all three sprints, both hurdles and every jump, along with the seven-discipline heptathlon. The weights, her least liked endeavors, are no picnic for a 110-pounder -- ''I get dizzy'' -- but she has sampled them all.
Raschker has no coach, so she learns by trial and error. She resembled a hopping frog as a beginning long jumper. She remains slow out of the blocks in her best event, the 200 meters, forcing her to ''see everybody's butt'' before she runs them down.
She was coached, sort of, by a former boyfriend, Phil Mulkey, an Olympic decathlete 14 years her senior. They were an item for two decades despite Mulkey's hit-and-miss efforts to instruct her during workouts.
''He will probably tell you I am uncoachable,'' Raschker said.
''She is uncoachable,'' Mulkey began, unprompted, by phone from Birmingham, Ala. ''And I consider myself a pretty good coach.''
Problem was, training bores Raschker, who operates on adrenaline rushes. Mulkey turned their practices into minimeets, one-on-one, which kept her interest from flagging.
''She has her own way about doing things,'' said Mulkey, who remains Raschker's friend and an ardent booster.
Her way includes a responsible, but not harsh, diet, opening daily with oatmeal and fruit and leading to meaty salads.
Raschker's home here, which includes an office for her independent tax accountant duties, is heavily furnished with fitness equipment. There is a treadmill in the utility room, on which she spends 20 minutes before boredom sets in, and a multistation weight machine. There is a recumbent bike in the den, an elliptical machine alongside her bed.
To save for meets, Raschker lives frugally, swearing off movies and dining out once a month at most. Two sponsors that provided modest funding have come and gone. Travel expenses, which once eclipsed $10,000 annually, have dropped nearly in half, but medical bills rose to $5,000, the tab from chronically ailing knees and a troublesome Achilles' tendon.
Raschker, childless after a 10-year marriage, maximizes the time flexibility to train (reluctantly) and attend meets. She displays some of her track and field awards, but most are tossed into shoe boxes, each labeled by year.
''Once you've done it, once you've won it, it's on to the next meet,'' she said.
What brought Raschker somewhat out of sports anonymity was being a two-time finalist for the Sullivan Award, presented by the Amateur Athletic Union to the nation's best unpaid athlete. No other masters performer in any sport has scratched the list of the five finalists.
She did not win in 2003, up against a stellar cast, all young enough to be her grandchildren: the swimmer Michael Phelps, the speedskater Apolo Anton Ohno, the basketball player Diana Taurasi (in the buff on the latest cover of The Body) and the high schooler LeBron James. Two years ago, Tim Tebow was the winner.
''Phil is such a phenomenal athlete,'' Brenda Matthews of Anaheim, Calif., who defeated her in the 60 meters at an international event last year, wrote in an e-mail. ''When the race was over, I had to admire Phil once again. She was very gracious to me and told me to enjoy my victory, that I had earned it.''
Through the years, not everyone has been so courteous.
Rumblings have portrayed her as a product of the East German sports machine, even though she was from West Germany. As a consumer of performance-boosting drugs. As having had a sex change.
Ken Stone, who maintains records and a Web site devoted to masters track and field, recalled a transgender athlete telling him, ''Phil Raschker has to be a former man.''
Stone said he sought and obtained documentation proving otherwise. ''I'm embarrassed that I bought that lady's story,'' he said. ''She is special. She's accomplished more than any masters athlete in the universe.''
The suspicions, Raschker said, ''used to bother me.''
''Now I don't give it a second thought,'' she added. ''I run away from negativity as fast as I can.''
Stone is one of many who have urged Raschker to eliminate some events, which sometimes require up to two dozen races at a given meet. Doing so, the argument goes, would result in Raschker's setting almost untouchable age-group records.
She has pored over the list, looking for candidates to drop. ''Which one would I choose?'' she said.
The naked truth is, as much pain as she withstands to compete, hanging up the spikes would be acutely painful, now that she is aware of her inspirational role. That would not mean abandoning competitive athletics altogether.
A client suggested she switch to rowing. ''It's something I've considered if my legs can't carry me anymore,'' she said.
Ever rowed before?
''No.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Philippa Raschker, 63, has set more than 200 masters track and field records and still holds 63 United States records and 18 world marks.(B14)
 Sprints are Philippa Raschker's specialty, but she was a women's pole-vault pioneer and competed against men in the decathlon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (91%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); BEACHES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



150 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: In Eco-Jeans, the Green Becomes Harder to Spot

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ZISSU

 BODY:
TWO years ago, when going green was red-hot in the fashion industry, there were plenty of organic jeans to choose from. Brands including Levi's, Banana Republic, Genetic Denim, 7 For All Mankind, Earnest Sewn, Aristocrat, Loomstate, Del Forte and J Brand offered at least one pair made with some amount of organic cotton, which is grown without environmentally threatening chemicals (according to the Sustainable Cotton Project, a nonprofit organization, conventional cotton consumes 25 percent of the world's chemical pesticides and fertilizers).
Today, none of the brands do. Which raises the question: Where has all the organic denim gone? 
Some smaller lines were crushed by the recession and a crowded market. ''In a matter of 12 months, I lost 25 to 30 percent of my customer base because of stores closing or scaling back orders and going with more price-conscious lines,'' said Tierra Del Forte, who closed her eco-jeans line, Del Forte, in 2009.
But other companies are extending their attention beyond cotton to the entire manufacturing process, according to LaRhea Pepper, senior director at Textile Exchange (formerly Organic Exchange), a nonprofit organization advocating the spread of organic agriculture.
Factors now being considered include water use, dye impact, soil health, labor issues and fair trade. ''There has been a paradigm shift: it's about water, toxic waste, scrap on the cutting room floor,'' Ms. Pepper said. ''Across the board we see companies figuring out how to do the right thing, do it in a way that's economically viable, move the agenda forward and make a difference.''
Levi's Eco line is no longer in stock, but the company continues to use some organic cotton while rejiggering its eco-efforts. ''We're shooting for greater impact,'' said Michael Kobori, vice president for social and environmental sustainability at Levi Strauss.
Along with H & M, Adidas and Nike, Levi's has joined the Better Cotton Initiative, another nonprofit, which focuses on sustainable-agriculture techniques, water use and economic and labor issues. Mr. Kobori said that the initiative's cotton farms in India and Pakistan have reduced chemical use and water consumption by a third. The resulting product, called Better Cotton, won't likely show up in Levi's clothing until spring 2012, and will be blended with conventional cotton at first. But the goal is to use it in everything the company makes. ''We want to shift the way cotton is grown around the world,'' Mr. Kobori said. ''All cotton can be grown this way.''
Shoppers not interested in delayed gratification can buy Levi's new Water Less jeans, which sell at retail for $50 to $130, starting this month. The fading and whiskers on them are done with reduced or no water, Mr. Kobori said, saving about 10 liters a pair. The company also advocates the dirty look; a life-cycle assessment of 501s and Dockers it conducted revealed the biggest water use with jeans is when consumers wash them. So Levi's is asking customers to wash less, and its labels now read: ''Wash in cold water. Line dry. Donate to Goodwill when no longer needed.'' (And don't forget the eco-detergent.)
Lacking Levi's global resources, the designer Rogan Gregory has stopped using organic denim for his self-described ''environmentally and socially conscious'' brand, Loomstate. ''If you're not a manufacturer, it's challenging to execute,'' Mr. Gregory said. He's also had concerns with the fit and washes of the fabric; organic cotton has a shorter fiber than conventional or genetically modified cotton, making it more difficult to weave. ''It unravels and is more fuzzy, softer,'' Mr. Gregory said. ''I thought that was part of the charm, but the market is not tolerant.'' Organic cotton remains in Loomstate's knits (''Fit isn't as down-to-the-centimeter with dresses,'' the designer said), but Mr. Gregory has also turned to other options, like reusable fabrics. ''I bet 10 to 20 years from now, cotton will be phasing out,'' he said. ''They will find ways to simulate and replicate the benefits of cotton without the bad parts.''
For those unwilling to try the most eco-conscious jeans of all -- vintage -- there remains a smattering of brands using organic denim. Patagonia's outdoorsy take is a bargain at $79; Edun's distressed skinny jean ($198) requires long limbs; Nau's unadorned straight jean ($180) and Eileen Fisher's chic-and-tidy line -- boot, skinny, straight or ''jeggings'' for $158 to $168 -- are appropriately versatile. On the Lower East Side, the eco boutique Kaight sells versions by Linda Loudermilk, Prairie Underground, Good Society and a few discontinued lines, each for less than $200. Organic cotton stretches, said Kaight's owner, Kate McGregor, so she suggests buying one size smaller than usual.
But the process of greening jeans contains enough shades of gray that many companies think it's best just to remain quiet on the topic. ''With marketing, especially with fashion, you have to be careful not to push the concept,'' Mr. Gregory said. ''It still has to be about the fashion of the garment. With food it is different -- you're consuming it, that's about quality. When it comes to clothing it's, 'I know it might be bad for the environment, but it makes my derriere look perfect.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOT GONE YET: Most jeans are no longer made with organic cotton, but several lines are still sold at Kaight in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (89%); COTTON FABRICS (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); TEXTILES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COTTON MARKETS (76%); PESTICIDES (76%); WATER CONSUMPTION (76%); FERTILIZERS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); COTTON FARMING (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



151 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Teams Find Public Money Harder to Come By

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
The sports world is littered with examples of governments spending hundreds of millions of dollars to host the World Cup or Olympics or to help build stadiums and arenas for privately owned home teams.
But the tide may be turning, ever so slightly. In the last few years, owners of the Mets and the Yankees in New York, the Jets, the Giants and the Red Bulls in New Jersey and the Cowboys in Texas built stadiums that they financed primarily themselves. Last week, San Francisco was chosen to host the next America's Cup even though the city had no money to offer the race organizers.
The question for economists, fiscal hawks and even Tea Party activists who oppose public subsidies for professional sports is whether these examples represent a growing resistance or are exceptions to the rule. The answer is a little bit of both. 
Cities that are short of cash can no longer afford to build stadiums, which is why teams in Sacramento, San Diego and San Francisco have struggled to win support for public subsidies. Vocal groups in Arizona argued against helping the money-losing Coyotes of the N.H.L. or the Chicago Cubs, who threatened to leave the state if they did not get a new spring training facility in Mesa. (Both teams ultimately got their deals.) A majority of voters in the Tampa area do not want their taxes used to pay for a new stadium for the Rays, according to one news poll.
But in just as many cities and states, lawmakers, often desperate to appease fans, are finding new ways to help their home teams. After arguing for fiscal austerity, politicians in Minnesota are endorsing a new stadium for the Vikings. A similar groundswell is happening in Atlanta, where the Falcons want a new stadium.
''I would like to be hopeful about the end of subsidies, but I'm not,'' said Dennis Coates, who teaches sports economics at the University of Maryland-Baltimore County. ''The bottom line is, no matter how often the public sector says no, the people who want to build a facility will come back to that well because no is not permanent, but yes is.''
Coates and other economists note that while voters are increasingly reluctant to shoulder the entire cost of new stadiums, politicians are finding new ways to keep their home teams happy, either by providing land, paying for parking structures, public transportation and access roads, and offering tax breaks.
Public dollars made up less than one-third of the price tags for Citi Field and Yankee Stadium. In addition to moving a park for the Yankees, the city helped the teams issue bonds similar to municipal governments so they could save millions of dollars in interest payments.
With a $380 million hole in its budget, San Francisco could not afford the tens of millions of dollars that would be needed to police the America's Cup. So the city offered the organizers rent-free access to prime waterfront property and the long-term development rights on the land that could be worth hundreds of millions of dollars. The city also promised to sell sponsorships for the event.
''As owners think about the new stadium economics, they're going to have to go through different avenues to get them built,'' said Chad Lewis, who rates sports-related debt at Fitch Ratings.
The Giants' and Jets' new stadium was privately financed, although fans subsidized the construction through their purchase of personal seat licenses. The state of New Jersey has to pay off more than $100 million in debt left on the old stadium.
But the list of teams looking for handouts remains long. Arthur Blank, the Falcons' owner, has long complained that the Georgia Dome is obsolete even though it is less than 20 years old and was worthy enough to host two Super Bowls. This season, Blank won support from Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner, who strongly hinted that Atlanta would not host another Super Bowl until a new stadium was built.
After snow led to the collapse of the roof of the Metrodome in Minneapolis, Gov. Mark Dayton and state lawmakers have warmed to the idea of helping the Vikings get a new home, despite a yawning budget gap.
Last year, Miami and Miami-Dade County agreed to pick up three-quarters of the cost of a new stadium for the Florida Marlins even as they laid off hundreds of municipal workers.
In another part of Florida, residents in the Tampa area are taking a different view. The Rays continue to lobby for a new stadium even though they draw poorly. Yet a recent St. Petersburg Times/Bay News 9 poll showed that two-thirds of residents were against using taxes to pay for a new stadium, even if it meant the team would move.
''The crowd that opposes stadium subsidies is similar to the Tea Party crowd, and they've gained strength,'' said Skip Sauer, who founded The Sports Economist blog. ''Marginally, it's a factor. It's moved the needle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Short on cash, San Francisco offered organizers of the America's Cup rent-free access to waterfront property. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); POLITICS (86%); BASEBALL (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BOND ISSUES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (69%); TAX LAW (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); WINNIPEG JETS (57%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



152 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Laundry Products Put Into Yet Another Form

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
CAN lightning strike twice in the laundry room?
That is the multimillion-dollar question being asked by one of the nation's largest marketers, the Dial Corporation division of Henkel, the German household products giant. Dial hit it big in 2009 with Purex Complete 3-in-1, which combines detergent, fabric softener and an antistatic treatment in a single laundry sheet.
Skeptics wondered whether Dial would be able to put across such a different type of laundry product. For one thing, the recession was cutting into sales of household cleaners. For another, Dial had long been marketing Purex as a ''value'' brand, sold more on price than efficacy or new offerings. 
But Purex Complete 3-in-1 has been deemed a winner, reaching an estimated $100 million in first-year sales -- a level achieved by few new products in their initial 12 months at retail. It was even designated one of ''America's hottest brands'' by the trade publication Advertising Age.
Now, for the new year, Dial is seeking to score a second success by bringing to the United States a laundry product that Henkel is already selling in countries like Germany, Israel, Italy and Spain: softener in crystal form, meant to replace liquids and sheets.
The product, called Purex Complete Crystals Softener, is being billed as ''a purer way to get laundry that smells clean and fresh for weeks.'' It is making its way this month onto the shelves of American grocery, drug and mass-merchandise stores, priced around $4 to $7 for a 28-ounce package that can be used for 32 loads of laundry.
A campaign for the new softener is to be introduced next month by Energy BBDO, the agency that created the ads to introduce Purex Complete 3-in-1. The budget is being estimated at $40 million to $50 million.
Although an agency whose name contains the word ''energy'' seems to be fated for a product whose name contains the word ''crystals,'' Energy BBDO is actually the name for the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.
The campaign will include, in addition to television and print advertising, discount coupons, online ads, ads in stores and an extensive presence in social media. For instance, a group of so-called mom bloggers, whom Dial describes as Purex Insiders, have received samples of Purex Complete Crystals to write about on their blogs.
The introduction by Dial of the next Purex Complete product is another example of how the recovery of the advertising industry has been gaining momentum. Not only is ad spending increasing over all, major marketers like Dial are committing to spending to bring out new products.
''In this recession, we learned consumers are looking for value,'' said Eric Schwartz, vice president for United States laundry care marketing at Dial in Scottsdale, Ariz., ''but 'value' doesn't mean just low price.''
The word ''value'' can also mean ''products that work differently,'' Mr. Schwartz said, because even ''in sleepy categories'' like laundry care, ''consumers are more than willing to try out new forms'' if they are seen as better than traditional versions.
Dial tested the laundry sheets under names besides Purex, in case consumers said they associated the brand only with lower-price mainstay products like liquid detergent.
But ''we found our brand is more extendable than we expected,'' Mr. Schwartz said, so 3-in-1 and Crystals are part of a new Purex Complete line.
It can cost less to market a new product under a familiar brand name than to try to make shoppers aware of a name they have not heard before.
That is why, for example, Mars is bringing out a new candy, Peanut Butter Squared, as part of its well-known Snickers line, and the Nabisco division of Kraft Foods is introducing Heads or Tails -- a sandwich cookie composed of a chocolate cookie and a vanilla cookie -- as part of its Oreo DoubleStuf brand line.
By contrast, the Frito-Lay North America division of PepsiCo announced in late 2007 that it would bring out a line of nuts and other snacks under a new brand name, True North. But it never really caught on, and the brand was sold this week to the DeMet's Candy Company.
To help sell consumers on the idea that Purex is more than just prosaic laundry products, the campaign for Purex Complete Crystals ends with a word, ''Purextraordinary'' that also appeared in the campaign to introduce the 3-in-1 laundry sheets.
''The idea is that there would be a brand story of continual innovation,'' said Dan Fietsam, chief creative officer at Energy BBDO, ''a substantial innovation story in a category that isn't known for a lot of innovation.''
''Value is part of the story,'' he added. ''It leads with innovation, disruptive innovation.''
A commercial for Purex Complete Crystals plays up its distinctive differences, among them that the product is to be added to the washer with the laundry at the beginning of the wash cycle rather than placed in the dispenser for liquid softener.
In addition to appearing on TV and online, the commercial will run on LCD screens that are part of displays on store shelves. Dial is working on the displays, called LCD risers, with Zooka Creative, an agency in Sunnyvale, Calif.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The introduction of the next Purex Complete product is a sign of a recovery in the ad industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CLEANERS (78%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (77%); RETAIL COUPONS (77%); RETAIL SALES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (60%)

COMPANY: HENKEL AG & CO KGAA (95%); DIAL CORP (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: HEN (FRA) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (95%); NAICS325613 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2843 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENTS, FINISHING AGENTS, SULFONATED OILS, & ASSISTANTS (95%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



153 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 947 words

PERSON: Ab SImon 

HEADLINE: Ab Simon, 88, Is Dead; Led Seagram's Wine Unit

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Ab Simon, who as the longtime chairman of the Seagram Chateau & Estate Wines Company was a commanding figure in the American wine trade and a leading importer of fine Bordeaux to the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88.
The cause was complications of heart disease, his wife, Francine, said. 
Mr. Simon, an Iraqi who found his way into the wine business after emigrating to the United States, was recruited by the Bronfman family in 1974 to establish a fine-wine division for its giant distilled spirits company, Joseph Seagram & Sons.
Mr. Simon, reasoning that the new division would be selling chateau wines from Bordeaux and estate wines from Burgundy, the Rhone and the Loire, proposed the name Chateau & Estate. The company added ''Seagram'' 10 years later.
He started off with a blank slate. ''When I came to Seagram's, there was no office, no secretary, no employees,'' he told The New York Times in 1988. ''They gave me Mumm's to sell to pay the rent and $2 million to buy wine.''
From that, Mr. Simon built Chateau & Estate into a powerful force in the wine market. Known as a gentlemanly dealer who relied on handshakes and first names, he bypassed the old middlemen, known as negociants, who had dominated the Bordeaux trade for centuries, and struck deals with chateau owners directly. As a consequence, he was able to influence prices as no other American importer ever had.
In the division's first full year of business, revenue was $3 million on shipments of 80,000 cases. In 1987, it reported sales of $80 million on shipments of 900,000 cases.
By the late 1980s, Chateau & Estate imported about a third of the production of Bordeaux's top wineries -- a figure that rose to 40 percent in peak years -- and about 20 percent of the five ''first growths,'' with their fabled names like Margaux and Latour.
Abdallah Hay Simon was born on Dec. 6, 1922, in Baghdad, the son of a textile merchant who spent much of his time in Britain doing business with mills in the Midlands. He attended Southport College, a private school near Manchester, and in 1940 earned a business and economics degree from the American University of Beirut.
After serving in the Iraqi army, Mr. Simon, whose family was Jewish, became increasingly alarmed at the deteriorating situation in the Middle East. In 1944, he left with his older brother for the United States, where he was almost immediately drafted into the Army. He completed Officer Candidate School and went to Germany at the end of 1945, assigned to a military police unit.
On returning to New York after the war, he went to work for a textile company that his brother had started, and married Francine Iny. In addition to his wife, he is survived by their two sons, Jamil, of Manhattan, and Michael, of Fort Kent, Me.; two sisters, Rachel Sopher, of Geneva, and Juliette Elias, of Manhattan; and a grandchild.
Mr. Simon's introduction to wine came aboard the Queen Elizabeth, where he found himself sitting next to four businessmen at dinner. ''It was suggested we each buy the wine for one of the five nights we'd be at sea,'' he told The Times. ''I didn't know one from the other, and someone suggested Latour '29. One taste of that wine and I was smitten.''
After placing a want ad in the newspaper, he was contacted by R. U. Delapenha, a small food and wine importer, and hired as an inventory clerk at $60 a week. By 1962, he was the company's president.
After the company was bought by Heublein three years later, he joined Austin, Nichols, a venerable importer and distributor, which was eager to build up its wine division. There he acquired the nickname Ab, conferred by an executive who worried that the company's many Jewish clients would react negatively to an Arab name.
It was at Austin, Nichols that Mr. Simon began approaching chateau owners directly. He got off to an auspicious start, striking up a strong relationship with the celebrated Chateau d'Yquem.
Soon after, he scored a coup by acquiring 1,100 cases of first-growth Bordeaux from the 1959 vintage being sold off by the Cunard Lines, which was discontinuing the Atlantic service of the Queen Elizabeth and Queen Mary. This attention-grabbing deal led to Austin, Nichols's becoming the leading importer of estate-bottled wines from Bordeaux.
At Seagram, Mr. Simon took advantage of a depressed wine market to acquire all of Austin, Nichols's inventory as well as the inventory of other importers and distributors. He cultivated relationships with several European wine producers who had cast their lot with Seagram, and he stuck with them when the market rebounded. Mr. Simon also built a strong business in Champagnes, elevating Perrier-Jouet to a leading position, and in the wines of Alsace, especially those of Trimbach.
Mr. Simon retired from Seagram in 2003.
''The economics of the wine business have some wonderful aspects,'' Mr. Simon said in an interview for ''Vintage Years,'' a memoir published privately in 2009. Yes, there are down years, but, as he pointed out, ''the wine gets better with age and increases in value, and there's also less available, which makes it even more valuable.''
This he pronounced ''a very happy circumstance indeed.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an obituary about Ab Simon, the longtime chairman of the Seagram Chateau & Estate Wines Company, misidentified the location of the photograph. It was taken in the Seagram Wine Museum in the Seagram building in Manhattan, not in Mr. Simon's office there.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ab Simon in his office at the Seagram building in 1988. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH MEYERS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ARMIES (86%); WINERIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SHIPMENTS (69%); TEXTILE MFG (67%); TEXTILES (65%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: SEAGRAM CHATEAU & ESTATE WINES CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (91%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (66%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance, Food and Restaurants

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



154 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Boehner's First Remarks as House Speaker

 BODY:
Following is a text of the speech by Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, given after he was elected House Speaker on Wednesday, as released by Mr. Boehner's office:
''Madam Speaker, thank you for your kind words, and thank you for your service. I'd like to welcome our new colleagues and their families. My own family is here as well: my wife, Debbie, our daughters, Lindsay and Tricia; my brothers and sisters, brothers-and-sisters-in-law, and their children.
''I am honored and humbled to represent a great, hard-working community in Congress. The people of Ohio's Eighth Congressional District continue to afford me the privilege to serve, for which I am deeply grateful.
''We gather here today at a time of great challenges. Nearly one in ten of our neighbors are looking for work. Health care costs are still rising for families and small businesses. Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt will soon eclipse the size of our entire economy. Hard work and tough decisions will be required of the 112th Congress. No longer can we fall short. No longer can we kick the can down the road. The people voted to end business as usual, and today we begin carrying out their instructions. 
''In the Catholic faith, we enter into a season of service by having ashes marked on our foreheads. The ashes remind us that life in all its forms is fragile our time on this Earth, fleeting. As the ashes are delivered, we hear those humbling words: 'Remember you are dust, and to dust you shall return.'
''The American people have humbled us. They have refreshed our memories as to just how temporary the privilege to serve is. They have reminded us that everything here is on loan from them. That includes this gavel, which I accept cheerfully and gratefully, knowing I am but its caretaker. After all, this is the people's House. This is their Congress. It's about them, not us. What they want is a government that is honest, accountable and responsive to their needs. A government that respects individual liberty, honors our heritage, and bows before the public it serves.
''Let's start with the rules package the House will consider today. If passed, it will change how this institution operates, with an emphasis on real transparency, greater accountability, and a renewed focus on the Constitution. Our aim will be to give government back to the people. In seeking this goal, we will part with some of the rituals that have come to characterize this institution under majorities Republican and Democratic alike. We will dispense with the conventional wisdom that bigger bills are always better; that fast legislating is good legislating; that allowing additional amendments and open debate makes the legislative process 'less efficient' than our forefathers intended.
''These misconceptions have been the basis for the rituals of modern Washington. The American people have not been well served by them. Today, mindful of the lessons of the past, we open a new chapter.
''Legislators and the public will have three days to read bills before they come to a vote. Legislation will be more focused, properly scrutinized, and constitutionally sound. Committees, once bloated, will be smaller, with a renewed mission, including oversight. Old rules that have made it easy to increase spending will be replaced by new reforms that make it easier to cut spending. We will start by cutting Congress' own budget.
''Above all else, we will welcome the battle of ideas, encourage it, and engage in it openly, honestly, and respectfully. As the chamber closest to the people, the House works best when it is allowed to work its will. I ask all members of this body to join me in recognizing this common truth.
''To my colleagues in the majority, my message is this: we will honor our Pledge to America, built through a process of listening to the people, and we will stand firm on the Constitutional principles that built our party, and built a nation. We will do these things, however, in a manner that restores and respects the time-honored right of the minority to an honest debate and a fair, open process.
''To my friends in the minority, I offer a commitment. Openness once a tradition of this institution, but increasingly scarce in recent decades, will be the new standard. There were no open rules in the House in the last Congress. In this one, there will be many. With this restored openness, however, will come a restored responsibility. You will not have the right to willfully disrupt the proceedings of the People's House. But you will always have the right to a robust debate in open process that allows you to represent your constituents. . .to make your case, offer alternatives, and be heard.
''In time, this framework will, I believe, restore the House of Representatives as a place where the people's will is done. It will also, I hope, help rebuild trust among us and the people we serve, and in so doing, provide a guidepost for those who follow us in the service of our nation.
''To our new members Democratic and Republican as you take the oath today, I know you will do so mindful of this shared goal, and the trust placed in you by your constituents. As Speaker, I view part of my job as helping each of you do your job well, regardless of party. My hope is that every new Member and indeed, every Member will be comfortable approaching me with matters of the House.
''We will not always get it right. We will not always agree on what is right. A great deal of scar tissue has built up on both sides of the aisle. We cannot ignore that, nor should we. My belief has always been, we can disagree without being disagreeable to each other. That's why it is critical this institution operate in a manner that permits a free exchange of ideas, and resolves our honest differences through a fair debate and a fair vote. We may have different sometimes, very different ideas for how to go about achieving the common good, but it is our shared goal. It is why we serve.
''Let us now move forward humble in our demeanor, steady in our principles, and dedicated to proving worthy of the trust and confidence that has been placed in us. If we brace ourselves to do our duty, and to do what we say we are going to do, there is no telling what together we can accomplish for the good of this great and honorable nation. More than a country, America is an idea, and it is our job to pass on to our posterity the blessings bestowed to us.
''I wish you all the very best. Welcome to the people's House. Welcome to the 112th Congress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



155 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
GOVERNOR'S ASSASSINATION DEEPENS PAKISTAN'S DIVIDE
The funeral of the assassinated governor of Punjab Province and the cheering of Malik Mumtaz Hussain Qadr, the man accused of killing him , highlighted the intensifying struggle between secular and religious forces in Pakistan that has grown nastier than ever in the country's history. PAGE A4
IVORY COAST RIVAL BLOCKADED 
A resort hotel in Abidjan, Ivory Coast has become the headquarters of Alassane Ouattara, the man who governments around the world say defeated the incumbent, Laurent Gbagbo, in a presidential election. But it remains blockaded, even after West African diplomats announced that they had received promises from Mr. Gbagbo to lift a three-week siege of the increasingly disheveled-looking hotel. PAGE A8 National
PANEL POINTS TO SERIES
Of Errors in Gulf Oil Spill
The Deepwater Horizon blowout and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was an avoidable accident caused by a series of failures and blunders by the companies involved in drilling the well and the government regulators assigned to police them, the presidential panel named to study the accident has concluded. PAGE A14
STATES' FISCAL WOES
States reported $1.1 trillion in total revenues in 2009, down from $1.6 trillion a year earlier -- the steepest drop the United States Census Bureau has reported since it began collecting data on state government finances in 1951. States also reported a $477 billion decline in what the census calls ''insurance trust revenue,'' mostly from pension funds. PAGE A14
New York
PANEL WILL SCRUTINIZE
Police Crime Reporting
Facing questions over whether crime statistics have been manipulated to cast the New York Police Department in a positive light, the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, announced that three former federal prosecutors would review the department's internal crime-reporting system. PAGE A24
Business
U.N. NOTES SHARP RISE
In World Food Prices
World food prices continued to rise sharply in December, bringing them close to the crisis levels that provoked shortages and riots in poor countries three years ago, according to newly released United Nations data. Prices are expected to remain high this year, prompting concern that the world may be approaching another crisis, although economists cautioned that many factors, like adequate stockpiles of key grains, could prevent a serious problem. PAGE B1
MICROCREDIT LOSES LUSTER
Microcredit was once extolled by world leaders like President Bill Clinton and Tony Blair as a powerful tool that could help eliminate poverty, through loans as small as $50 to cowherds, basket weavers and others for starting or expanding businesses. But now microloans have prompted political hostility in Bangladesh, India, Nicaragua and other developing countries. PAGE B3
SMALL-BUSINESS STORIES
If you use numbers to judge 2010, it was probably a better year for small businesses than 2009, with fewer companies failing. But numbers do not tell the whole story, and behind every one of those small businesses that failed was an entrepreneur with an idea and a dream. PAGE B7
Sports
N.F.L.'S SUDDEN DEATH,
Now Suddenly Different
The nuances to the N.F.L.'s overtime rule, which will be unveiled in the playoffs, have confused fans and prompted coaches to rethink strategy. Now the team that receives the first overtime kickoff would win the game on that possession only via a touchdown. A field goal then would not end the game in sudden death, but would give the opponent's offense a chance to score. On the second and any subsequent overtime possessions, either team could win with a score of any kind. PAGE B14
Arts
A PRESERVATION DISPUTE
In a Historic District
A building owner has ignored New York's demands to dismantle a fifth story that was added to a landmark mid-19th-century row house in the Chelsea neighborhood, which may be the only surviving documented Manhattan station on the Underground Railroad. PAGE C1
REVIVING 'DRACULA'
Charles Isherwood writes that the popularity of vampires in popular culture is clearly the motivating factor behind the revival of ''Dracula,'' Hamilton Deane and John L. Balderston's play based on the Bram Stoker novel and first staged on Broadway in 1927, but the staging at the Little Shubert Theater is comically creaky. PAGE C1
Home
SELLING A BOOK
By Its Cover
The printed, bound book has been given a stay of execution by an unlikely source: the design community. Builders and designers are still making spaces with shelves, and they are turning to companies that customize book covers for a client's design needs for help filling them. PAGE D1
Styles
NARROWING THE FIELD
Before Playing It
Singles on major sites like Match.com and Lavalife.com have long been able to narrow their searches for potential matches, based on their preferences for height, weight, smoking habits and other personal details. But now that broad-brush dating sites have saturated the market, niche players are growing ever more plentiful and popular, according to major market research firms that monitor the dating industry. PAGE E1
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A23
Gail Collins PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); MICROFINANCE (87%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); OIL SPILLS (73%); RIOTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); RESORTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CENSUS (72%); RELIGION (72%); STATISTICS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); FOOD PRICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); CRIME STATISTICS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); PUNJAB, INDIA (58%) COTE D'IVOIRE (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



156 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: A Fireside Chat You Can Click Through

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
In the annals of American politics, some chief executives' approaches to the art of persuasion stand the test of time: Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats; the Johnson Treatment; Ronald Reagan's hand-scrawled notes.
Now comes Andrew M. Cuomo's PowerPoint. 
If Governor Cuomo's State of the State address on Wednesday is any guide, he could be remembered one day for elevating that overused tool of middle managers and college professors to the exalted place in public life once reserved for soaring oratory.
Mr. Cuomo was less a statesman than a briefer in chief on Wednesday, mustering 82 slides -- 82! -- to make the case that the ship of state was sinking fast and needed to be righted right now. (More on naval metaphors below.)
To be sure, Mr. Cuomo is not the first governor to use PowerPoint: Rod R. Blagojevich, in better days, used it to introduce a budget plan for Illinois; and Jeb Bush used it to list his successes in Florida.
But State of the State speeches, with their customary pomp and ceremony, seem somehow ill-suited for the software.
In an interview, Peter Norvig, the director of research at Google and the author of a Web parody, ''The Gettysburg PowerPoint Presentation,'' worried that Mr. Cuomo risked ''giving up some of his stature as governor and lowering himself to the level of a salesman.''
Indeed, there were sideways glances and giggles in the audience as the governor's slide show began and charts, graphs and animated visual effects started popping up on jumbo screens on either side of him.
The slides changed quickly, ranging from straightforward charts on job losses to none-too-subtle visual messages: inflation, symbolized by a short stack of silvery chump change, side by side with growth in Medicaid and education spending, rendered as piles of gold bullion; a scale showing the ''people'' on one side, vastly outweighed by the ''special interests'' on the other.
Like a good manager trying to keep his underlings from dozing off, Mr. Cuomo leavened his presentation with the kind of goofy jokes one might see on ''The Office.''
He likened the state's budget-making process to ''ships passing in the night,'' then zoomed in on a slide that featured pictures of three warships, revealing images of himself; the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver; and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, each in a Navy captain's uniform. The Cuomo-captained ship came under torpedo attack from ''special interests.''
Mr. Cuomo also said this was the first time that ''technology'' was ''actually going to be used'' in a State of the State address -- underscoring his implicit promise to be the savvy professional who drags Albany from the Dark Ages into the 21st century.
Mr. Cuomo became a fan of PowerPoint during his campaign last year, honing his doomsaying message for the benefit of reporters and editorial boards. At times, it seemed an affectation whose purpose was not quite clear.
On Wednesday, its purpose was plain as day.
To New Yorkers who toil in offices, PowerPoint has become the inescapable, omnipresent medium for communicating to groups of people, all too often in mind-numbing detail.
If queuing up the slides signals anything, it signals roll-up-the-sleeves, plodding getting down to the work at hand.
Exactly what Mr. Cuomo appeared to be going for.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A PowerPoint slide depicting Andrew M. Cuomo, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader as captains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MEDICAID (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



157 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Ombudsman Calls for a Broad Overhaul of Tax Regulations

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The various calls to revamp the nation's highly complex tax code were joined by a significant new voice on Wednesday -- the I.R.S.'s own taxpayer advocate, who urged that the system be rewritten for the first time in a generation.
Nina E. Olson, the national tax advocate who acts as an ombudsman for the I.R.S., issued a sweeping criticism of federal tax policy in her annual report to Congress. Ms. Olson found that the volume of the tax code had nearly tripled in size during the last decade -- to 3.8 million words in February 2010 from 1.4 million in 2001. She estimated that Americans spent 6.1 billion hours preparing their returns each year -- the equivalent of 3 million employees working full time. By comparison, the federal payroll has 2.1 million full-time workers. 
The byzantine tax regulations also deprived the government of revenue by causing accidental underpayments and encouraging cheating, the report concluded, stating that the most practical remedy would be for Congress to scrap the existing code, which was last overhauled in 1986.
''The time for tax reform and tax simplification is now,'' Ms. Olson said.
While the report amplifies many frequently voiced criticisms, and is likely to be welcomed by many of the tax critics who ignited the Tea Party movement, most policy experts consider it unlikely that the federal government will take up the issue before the 2012 presidential election.
Howard Gleckman, an analyst at the Tax Policy Center, has said that neither President Obama nor Congress has shown any eagerness to confront the combination of spending cuts and rate increases that would be needed to address the budget deficit.
Still, the fact that the I.R.S.'s own internal watchdog concedes that the federal tax system has become unmanageable underscores the severity of the problem.
The report's prescriptions are likely to be more controversial than the diagnosis. Like the deficit commission set up by Mr. Obama, the National Tax Advocate's office suggests that the tax system could be simplified and rates lowered if the federal government eliminated most of the $1.1 trillion in write-offs, loopholes and deductions known as ''tax expenditures.''
The report cites some of the most controversial loopholes for wealthy individuals and specific industries -- including tax subsidies for electric cars and golf carts, movie production and a byproduct of the papermaking process known as ''black liquor.'' It also points out that some of the most expensive tax expenditures are collected by tens of millions of lower- and middle-class Americans who receive tax breaks on home mortgage interest, employer-provided health care plans, 401(k)'s and state and local taxes.
''The dirty little secret is that the largest special interests are us -- the vast majority of U.S. taxpayers,'' the report said. ''Virtually all of us benefit from certain exclusions from income, deductions from income or tax credits.''
Unlike the deficit commission's tax overhaul proposal, which sought to raise additional revenue, the taxpayer advocate's plan would be revenue neutral.
The report also raised two troubling administrative issues facing the I.R.S. -- the agency's growing reliance on tax liens for collections and its greatly expanded responsibilities under the new health care law.
Noting that the I.R.S. had filed 1.1 million tax liens against delinquent taxpayers in 2010, the report urged the agency to use less ''hard-core'' enforcement tools on people who were still financially distressed because of the economic slowdown.
The taxpayer advocate also warned that as the new health care law takes effect in coming years, the I.R.S. would need to expand and retrain its staff.
''As the I.R.S. prepares to administer large portions of the health care legislation, it will have to shift from being an enforcement agency that primarily says, in effect, 'you owe us' to an agency that places much greater emphasis on hiring and training caseworkers to help eligible taxpayers receive benefits and work one-on-one with taxpayers to resolve legitimate disagreements,'' the report said.
Online Correction: January 5, 2011, Wednesday
A previous version of this article misstated the total of write-offs, loopholes and deductions known as ''tax expenditures.'' It is $1.1 trillion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The time for tax reform and tax simplification is now,'' said Nina E. Olson, the national taxpayer advocate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (98%); TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX REFORM (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); PAPER MILLS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2011



158 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: GADGETWISE; Vizio Moves From TV Sets Into Tablets and Smartphones

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Apple's iPad controls the high end of the nascent tablet market, but Vizio seems to have its eyes on the lower end.
On Monday, Vizio, which made its name selling televisions, announced that it would begin selling an Android tablet with an 8-inch screen, a front-facing camera, HD video capability, and the ability to connect to HD televisions. It also announced that it would begin selling smartphones. The new devices will be on display at this week's International Consumer Electronics Show, where many companies are planning to introduce their own tablets. 
Matthew McRae, Vizio's chief technology officer, promoted its intention to provide ''the first true integrated ecosystem across multiple classes of devices,'' where a user could begin watching a movie, for example, on a Vizio tablet, and then finish watching on a Vizio television. Both the smartphone and the tablet can be used as remotes for Vizio televisions.
But Vizio's strongest selling point has always been its low price. And while it has not yet disclosed information about pricing, the company's tablets are expected to cost much less than Apple's iPad or Samsung's Galaxy Tab.
Vizio's impact on the television market should concern other tablet manufacturers, analysts said. Founded in 2002, the company focused on selling low-priced flat-panel televisions at a time when such products were out of the price range of most consumers. It quickly shot to the front of the pack. In the third quarter of last year Vizio was the top seller of LCD televisions in the United States, holding 19.9 percent of the market, according to iSuppli, a market research firm.
Vizio has not generally been at the early end of new trends - its competitors were selling Internet-connected televisions and 3-D TVs long before it was. Instead of early adopters, it has relied on relationships with low-cost retailers like Costco, Sam's Club and Wal-Mart for distribution to reach the broader, lower end of the market. Its ability to secure technology at low costs, coupled with its ability to put its products in front of people who may not be considering a tablet computer because they seem too expensive, puts the company in a good position for success, said James McQuivey, an analyst at Forrester Research.
''What Vizio is going to do is go after those people who wouldn't have bought a tablet for another two or three years,'' Mr. McQuivey said. ''That to me is exciting, because it is going to force everybody to up their game.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (94%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); RETAILERS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); TRADE SHOWS (55%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); SAM'S CLUB (64%); SAMSUNG GROUP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2011



159 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Texas Omen

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
These are tough times for state governments. Huge deficits loom almost everywhere, from California to New York, from New Jersey to Texas.
Wait -- Texas? Wasn't Texas supposed to be thriving even as the rest of America suffered? Didn't its governor declare, during his re-election campaign, that ''we have billions in surplus''? Yes, it was, and yes, he did. But reality has now intruded, in the form of a deficit expected to run as high as $25 billion over the next two years.
And that reality has implications for the nation as a whole. For Texas is where the modern conservative theory of budgeting -- the belief that you should never raise taxes under any circumstances, that you can always balance the budget by cutting wasteful spending -- has been implemented most completely. If the theory can't make it there, it can't make it anywhere. 
How bad is the Texas deficit? Comparing budget crises among states is tricky, for technical reasons. Still, data from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities suggest that the Texas budget gap is worse than New York's, about as bad as California's, but not quite up to New Jersey levels.
The point, however, is that just the other day Texas was being touted as a role model (and still is by commentators who haven't been keeping up with the news). It was the state the recession supposedly passed by, thanks to its low taxes and business-friendly policies. Its governor boasted that its budget was in good shape thanks to his ''tough conservative decisions.''
Oh, and at a time when there's a full-court press on to demonize public-sector unions as the source of all our woes, Texas is nearly demon-free: less than 20 percent of public-sector workers there are covered by union contracts, compared with almost 75 percent in New York.
So what happened to the ''Texas miracle'' many people were talking about even a few months ago?
Part of the answer is that reports of a recession-proof state were greatly exaggerated. It's true that Texas job losses haven't been as severe as those in the nation as a whole since the recession began in 2007. But Texas has a rapidly growing population -- largely, suggests Harvard's Edward Glaeser, because its liberal land-use and zoning policies have kept housing cheap. There's nothing wrong with that; but given that rising population, Texas needs to create jobs more rapidly than the rest of the country just to keep up with a growing work force.
And when you look at unemployment, Texas doesn't seem particularly special: its unemployment rate is below the national average, thanks in part to high oil prices, but it's about the same as the unemployment rate in New York or Massachusetts.
What about the budget? The truth is that the Texas state government has relied for years on smoke and mirrors to create the illusion of sound finances in the face of a serious ''structural'' budget deficit -- that is, a deficit that persists even when the economy is doing well. When the recession struck, hitting revenue in Texas just as it did everywhere else, that illusion was bound to collapse.
The only thing that let Gov. Rick Perry get away, temporarily, with claims of a surplus was the fact that Texas enacts budgets only once every two years, and the last budget was put in place before the depth of the economic downturn was clear. Now the next budget must be passed -- and Texas may have a $25 billion hole to fill. Now what?
Given the complete dominance of conservative ideology in Texas politics, tax increases are out of the question. So it has to be spending cuts.
Yet Mr. Perry wasn't lying about those ''tough conservative decisions'': Texas has indeed taken a hard, you might say brutal, line toward its most vulnerable citizens. Among the states, Texas ranks near the bottom in education spending per pupil, while leading the nation in the percentage of residents without health insurance. It's hard to imagine what will happen if the state tries to eliminate its huge deficit purely through further cuts.
I don't know how the mess in Texas will end up being resolved. But the signs don't look good, either for the state or for the nation.
Right now, triumphant conservatives in Washington are declaring that they can cut taxes and still balance the budget by slashing spending. Yet they haven't been able to do that even in Texas, which is willing both to impose great pain (by its stinginess on health care) and to shortchange the future (by neglecting education). How are they supposed to pull it off nationally, especially when the incoming Republicans have declared Medicare, Social Security and defense off limits?
People used to say that the future happens first in California, but these days what happens in Texas is probably a better omen. And what we're seeing right now is a future that doesn't work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCREASES (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ZONING (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LABOR FORCE (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); LAND USE PLANNING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



160 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: The Best Present Money Can Buy

BYLINE: By VIVIANA A. ZELIZER. 
Viviana A. Zelizer, a professor of sociology at Princeton, is the author of ''Economic Lives: How Culture Shapes the Economy.''

 BODY:
Princeton, N.J.
NOW that the holidays are over, many disappointed gift-recipients are heading to the mall to return their useless, unattractive or thoughtless presents. Next year, why not spare them the trouble, and give cash instead?
It makes economic sense -- many economists see cash as the most efficient gift, because it allows recipients to choose exactly what they want.
But this horrifies traditionalists, who see giving cash for Christmas as the ultimate commodification of a sacred ritual. Money is acceptable for charitable donations or bonuses, but certainly not for friends or family. 
It turns out that both the economic realists who give money as presents and the traditionalists have history on their side, because this is a debate that began back in the early 20th century. As the consumer society expanded and Americans began giving more Christmas presents to more people, money emerged as an acceptable gift. Christmas money, according to a 1912 issue of Ladies' Home Journal, ''supplies dearly cherished wishes, adds small luxuries, prevents worriment and gives opportunities for helpfulness as no other gift does.''
But how was a recipient to know that a dollar was a gift dollar? That something made of the same legal tender used to buy the daily newspaper, tip waiters and bribe politicians was in fact a gift expressing personal affection?
The challenges of giving money were captured by this 1920s vaudeville act:
HE It's bad form for a person to leave the price mark on a gift, isn't it?
SHE Yes, and I knew a woman who was so absent-minded that when she gave a $50 bill for a Christmas gift, she tried to rub the price mark off of it. ... She was giving the $50 bill to her married daughter, and didn't want her to know how much it was worth.
HE And what did her married daughter do with the $50 bill, when she got it?
SHE She took the money, and paid the grocer what she owed him.
HE And what did her mother do?
SHE Her mother cried, and said, although she loved to give a Christmas present, there wasn't much fun in paying her son-in-law's grocery bill.
The key to the problem, early 20th-century gift-givers found, was to camouflage money inside a traditional gift. This took effort and it had nothing to do with efficiency, but it enabled people to elevate the gift of cash.
In the December 1909 Ladies' Home Journal, for instance, the writer Lou Eleanor Colby said she had found a way to ''disguise the money so that it would not seem just like a commercial transaction.'' She explained how she had incorporated $10 for her mother into artwork. She inserted dollar bills into two posters; one showed five sad bills not knowing where to go, and the other depicted the happy ending: ''five little dollars speeding joyfully'' toward her mother's purse.
Housewives hid gold coins in cookies and boxes of candies; dollar bills could decorate belt-buckles or picture frames. Women boasted when the recipient failed to realize that the actual present was money. Men also disguised the money they gave to their wives as gifts, to distinguish it from their allowances. If you give her a check, The Ladies' Home Journal advised, ''put it in an embroidered purse, or a leather sewing basket or a jewel box which will be a little gift in itself.'' The better the disguise, the more successful the gift.
Then, in 1910, American Express began advertising money orders as an ''acceptable Christmas gift.'' Western Union improved on the idea by creating distinctive telegrams for sending money for special occasions, while greeting card companies started selling decorative money holders for birthdays and holidays.
After 1905, department stores even designed a new currency: gift certificates. Also called merchandise coupons or gift bonds, these were for a specific sum of money to be spent either on a designated type of merchandise -- gloves and shoes were popular items -- or, as today, on anything at all at a particular store.
We can't all be as clever as Lou Eleanor Colby, but buying a gift card that restricts what the money can be used for is just another way of distinguishing gift money from regular money, and a way for givers to demonstrate their intimate knowledge of what the recipient likes and cares about.
Nostalgic traditionalists and hard-nosed realists both get it wrong. For over a century, Americans have been demonstrating remarkable ingenuity in turning money into meaningful personal gifts. Let's keep it up. Next year, perhaps take a lesson from the pages of The Ladies' Home Journal and hide cash in a gift of your own creation.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOPOS GRAPHICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); WRITERS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%)

COMPANY: LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



161 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Buckle Up For Round 2

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The health care reform law was signed 10 months ago, and what's striking now is how vulnerable it looks. Several threats have emerged -- some of them scarcely discussed before passage -- that together or alone could seriously endanger the new system. These include:
The courts. So far, one judge has struck down the individual mandate, the plan's centerpiece. Future decisions are likely to break down on partisan lines. Given the makeup of the Supreme Court, this should concern the law's defenders. 
False projections. The new system is based on a series of expert projections on how people will behave. In the first test case, these projections were absurdly off base. According to the Medicare actuary, 375,000 people should have already signed up for the new high-risk pools for the uninsured, but only 8,000 have.
More seriously, cost projections are way off. For example, New Hampshire's plan has only about 80 members, but the state has already burned through nearly double the $650,000 that the federal government allotted to help run the program. If other projections are off by this much, the results will be disastrous.
Employee dumping. This is the most serious threat. Companies and unions across America are running the numbers and discovering they would be better off if, after 2014, they induced poorer and sicker employees to move to public insurance exchanges, where subsidies are much higher.
The number of people in those exchanges could thus skyrocket, especially as startup companies undermine their competitors with uninsured employees and lower costs. The Congressional Budget Office projects that 19 million people will move to the exchanges at a cost of $450 billion between 2014 and 2019. But according to the economists Douglas Holtz-Eakin and James C. Capretta, costs could soar to $1.4 trillion if those who would be better off in the exchanges actually moved to them. The price of the health care law could double. C. Eugene Steuerle of the Urban Institute, who has been among those raising the alarms about this, calls the law's structure ''unworkable and unfair.''
Health care oligarchy. Since the law passed, there has been a frenzy of mergers and acquisitions, as hospitals, clinics and doctor groups have joined together into bigger and bigger entities. The drafters encourage this, believing large outfits would be more efficient. The downside to this economic concentration is there could be less competition and cost control. In many places, the political power of these quasi-monopolies would be huge, with unforeseeable results. The law bans doctors from starting up hospitals to increase competition.
Public hostility. Right now about 53 percent of Americans oppose the health care law and 43 percent support it, according to an average of the recent polls. Complaints are especially high among doctors. According to a survey by the Physicians Foundation, 60 percent of private practice doctors say the law will force them to close their practices or to restrict them to certain categories of patients.
Given this level of unhappiness, people will blame the Obama law for everything they hate about the health care system. Political opposition was fierce last November, and it could easily shape the 2012 election and lead to changes or repeal.
Over all, there is a strong likelihood that the current health care law will face an existential threat over the next five years. Each party should be preparing contingency plans.
When the crisis comes, Democrats will face an interesting choice -- to patch the Obama system or try to replace it with something bigger. The administration may want a patch, but by a ratio of nearly 2 to 1, according to a CNN poll, Democratic voters would prefer a more ambitious law. Liberals could logically say that the mistake was trying to create a hybrid system, rather than moving straight to a single-payer one.
Republicans are going to have to move beyond their current ''Repeal!'' posture and cohere behind a positive alternative. One approach, which Tyler Cowen of George Mason University has written about, is to allow more state experimentation. Another approach, championed by Capretta, Yuval Levin of National Affairs and Thomas P. Miller of the American Enterprise Institute, revolves around the words ''defined contribution.''
Under this approach, Republicans would say that the federal government has a role in subsidizing health insurance -- a generous role, but not unlimited. The government would provide needy citizens with a predefined amount of money to spend on insurance and allow them to shop in a transparent, regulated, but not micromanaged marketplace.
After the trauma of the last two years, many people wish the issue would go away. But it's not going away, especially since costs will continue to rise.
Some Congresses achieve health care; members of this Congress or the next one will have health care thrust upon them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MEDICARE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); POLITICS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



162 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs's Calculated Risk

BYLINE: By ROB COX and IAN CAMPBELL

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs's rivals must be kicking themselves. The firm's nearly $2 billion investment connection with Facebook is relatively small financially, but it's big in franchise terms. After the lumps Goldman took last year, the deal showed the firm could still wrap its tentacles around an important client for mutual benefit.
Goldman could still lose money on the deal for its shareholders, partners and clients. And questions remain as to whether its plan to invest $450 million of its own capital alongside $1.5 billion from others through a single investment entity violates the spirit of Securities Exchange Act disclosure rules. That means there's still a chance the deal could backfire financially or in the realm of public opinion. 
But taking calculated risks is what separates Goldman from run-of-the-mill competitors. The Facebook effort also involved stitching its sometimes conflicting strands of business into a fabric that suited a priority customer. That's a way both to fend off rivals and to mitigate risk in the deal.
The Goldman coup surely started with an investment banking relationship with Facebook's executives and its board, including the early venture capital supporters Peter Thiel and Jim Breyer.
Other banks can do that, too, however. So something more was required: capital. Even without the backing of some of its in-house money managers, Goldman found the cash. Its chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, carved out a slice of the balance sheet -- a bold call given that many bank executives are paralyzed trying to figure out the impact of regulatory changes on proprietary investments.
Moreover, Goldman's Silicon Valley bankers enlisted the private wealth management division to bring in customers as investors. That doesn't just generate fees, it allows Goldman to boast that it brings clients deals other banks can't match. The firm's powerful network of alumni also played a role. Digital Sky Technologies, a Facebook shareholder that's investing at least $50 million more, counts former partners of the bank among its executives.
There are other tentacles poised for the future, too. Goldman will probably take Facebook public eventually, for a juicy fee. And its private bank may make new customers of the social network's founders and employees when that happens. The likes of Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse should be wondering whether and how they can coordinate their various appendages on such A-list deals so successfully.
Balancing Act
Commodities markets should like economic growth. Yet despite positive data from Germany and the United States, prices are wobbling. The problem is that oil, food and metals prices have all thrived on a weak dollar, cheap money and inflows into real rather than financial assets. Recovery, a firmer dollar and higher interest rates are giving investors more to think about. There could be a lot of volatility ahead.
This week's lurches come at the end of a superstrong run. The Reuters-Jefferies CRB commodity index jumped 10 percent in December, taking its annual rise for 2010 to 15 percent. Commodities were ripe for a correction. But their fall may signal more than that.
Dollar weakness and central bank money printing helped lift a broad range of commodities, as well as gold, last year. Hedge funds made hay with trades that shorted the dollar and went long on commodities. Steep price gains had a marked speculative element.
Now, however, a dollar rally looks on. Yields on Treasuries have risen strongly since October, making dollar assets more appealing. The euro zone periphery crisis is another reason to switch out of the single currency and into the dollar. As the dollar rises, commodities, which are priced in dollars, tend to fall.
But the influence of real levels of supply and demand must also be taken into account. Real demand for many commodities should be well supported if global growth is indeed firm. Yet stronger growth, too, has its negative side. Inflation is up in China, India and even the euro zone. Asia has already seen interest rate rises. The liquidity taps that provided investors with cheap money are closing.
Stronger growth, but probably a stronger dollar, higher global inflation and interest rates, and perhaps less liquidity: that sums up the countervailing forces in commodity markets in 2011. The tide of money that surged into commodities last year may no longer flow so reliably.
ROB COX and IAN CAMPBELL
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Weakness in the dollar and central bank money printing helped lift gold last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACKY NAEGELEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); METALS MARKETS (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); MAIL.RU GROUP LTD (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); MAIL (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



163 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Aims to Remain King of the Hybrids

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- As Toyota heads to the Detroit auto show that opens Monday, the company aims to burnish its reputation as a leader in environmental technology -- an image increasingly under threat from resurgent rivals.
Both Nissan and General Motors have been promoting their new electric-powered vehicles, which began reaching consumers last month. And Ford, which will start selling an all-electric version of its popular Focus compact later this year, will use the Detroit show to promote its green credentials.
As Toyota works at the Detroit show, it will be trying to convince customers that there is still mileage in the gas-electric hybrid technology it pioneered more than a decade ago with its Prius. The Prius, the world's first mass-produced hybrid car, accelerates and runs at low speeds on an electric motor and batteries, with a gasoline engine kicking in at higher speeds. 
In ads on television and YouTube, Toyota has been previewing a new addition to the Prius lineup that it will introduce at the auto show. ''I can't show you everything just yet, but here's a sneak peek,'' a skateboarder says in one of the ads as he zooms past a car shrouded in a black veil, which billows up just long enough to reveal the car's outline. Toyota might be on the defensive, if only because of its many reputation-tarnishing recalls in the last year. But the automaker is particularly vexed to find itself having to restate its credentials as the industry's environmental leader, something it has had little trouble claiming since it introduced the Prius in 1997.
Nissan, one of Toyota's main Japanese rivals, calls its new battery-powered Leaf hatchback the world's first mass-produced, all-electric vehicle. Its ad campaign for the United States features a polar bear running from a melting ice cap to hug a Leaf owner in a big city meant to evoke San Francisco. The tag line: ''Innovation for the planet, innovation for all.'' A resurgent G.M., meanwhile, is claiming a breakthrough with the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid that runs on rechargeable batteries for up to 50 miles before a gasoline engine kicks in. Last month, at the Economic Club of Washington, G.M.'s chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, called the Toyota Prius a ''geek-mobile'' that he would never want to drive.
But Toyota, even as it emphasizes the company's environmental record, is skeptical of all-electric vehicles. It remains committed to the hybrid technology, which it has spent at least $1 billion to develop. By the end of 2012, the company plans to introduce six new hybrid vehicles and says that all its models will come in hybrid versions by 2020.
''Customers are going to ultimately decide what kind of car they want to drive,'' said Keisuke Kirimoto, a Toyota spokesman based in Tokyo. ''And whatever customers choose, we will be there.''
The Prius has already exceeded Toyota's own expectations. In 2005, the company said it hoped to sell a million of the hybrid vehicles worldwide over five years; by September 2010, it had sold twice that many. And within Japan, helped by generous tax incentives, the Prius has been the country's top-selling car for the last 19 months.
Earlier this week, Robert S. Carter, Toyota's vice president for United States sales, told analysts that the company expected the Prius to become its best-selling car in the American market by the end of the decade.
And Toyota's top executives are quick to highlight the uncertainties surrounding purely electric vehicles. ''We still predict the spread of electric vehicles will be extremely slow,'' Atsushi Niimi, an executive vice president at Toyota, said at a year-end briefing.
Many analysts share Toyota's skepticism. J. D. Power & Associates, the market research company, predicts that in 2020 only 1.3 million of the 70.9 million cars projected to be sold worldwide that year will be all-electric -- fewer than 2 percent. Even optimistic analysts put the figure at no more than 5 percent.
The concerns include low horsepower, the reliability of electric technology and the prospect of the charge running out while the car is being driven. Although battery technology has improved in recent years, both nickel-metal hydride and the more powerful lithium ion batteries remain bulky, vulnerable to heat and expensive to produce. The price premium of an electric car over a gasoline one could also deter consumers, if gasoline prices continue to hold fairly steady.
Still, some analysts say Toyota risks losing its edge if it does not keep abreast of advances in zero-emissions technology.
''It is dangerous for Toyota to insist on sticking to its hybrid-focused strategy,'' said Yasuaki Iwamoto, an auto analyst at Okasan Securities in Tokyo. ''Just like it was a leader in hybrid technology, it should be jumping out in front in electric-vehicle technology,'' he said. ''If it doesn't, it will be difficult for Toyota to regain its image as a leader in the environment space.''
By at least one measure, Toyota has not lost that image in the first place. According to Consumer Reports' 2011 Car Brand Perception Survey, released on Wednesday, Toyota is the leader in the ''environmentally friendly/green'' category, which the survey says helped it hold onto its title as the most recognizable car brand in the United States. Without Toyota's big ratings in the green category, Ford would have claimed the overall top score, Consumer Reports said.
While it remains committed to hybrids, Toyota is hedging its bets on electric technology. In late 2009 it developed and started leasing a small number of its own plug-in hybrid vehicles, which have a range of about 13 miles before the gasoline engine starts. The model is scheduled to go on sale next year.
And last May, Toyota invested $50 million in the Silicon Valley electric car start-up Tesla Motors. It signed a separate $60 million deal with Tesla to develop a fully electric vehicle to run on lithium-ion battery packs. The two showed off a prototype at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November.
Toyota is also developing its own tiny all-electric vehicle, which it says it will begin selling in 2012. But the company takes pains to say the battery-powered car will serve a niche market of drivers making only very short commutes.
Toyota, however, needs more than niche markets to help it after a year marred by recalls of some 11 million vehicles -- including the Prius -- for faulty gas pedals, floor mats that could trap accelerators or braking and engine defects. Those flaws, as well as Toyota's handling of the recalls, have tarnished its reputation for safety.
Toyota's sales in the United States have suffered as a result. Earlier this week the company reported declines for December and for all of 2010, saying sales fell 5.5 percent last month from a year earlier and 0.4 percent for the year. That made Toyota the biggest loser in a recovery year for the overall United States auto market, which grew 11.1 percent in 2010 from a year earlier to 11.6 million cars, according to the research firm, Autodata.
That is why so much is riding on Toyota as it heads to the Detroit auto show.
''Last year, we caused people a lot of concern,'' Toyota's chief executive, Akio Toyoda, said on Wednesday in Tokyo. ''But we also learned a lot,'' he said.
Asked by the public broadcaster NHK to think of a word to describe Toyota's strategy for 2011, Mr. Toyoda smiled.
''Jump,'' he said. ''We want to make a big jump.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Toyota will reveal a new car in its Prius line at the Detroit auto show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) (B1)
A plug-in Prius, like the converted one at top left, will be widely available in 2012. Above, a 2010 Prius in a Tokyo showroom. Toyota hopes to deter its rivals by focusing on hybrids. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM WIMBORNE/REUTERS
 ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); GREEN MARKET (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (89%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



164 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Inquiry Said to Focus On a Fund In California

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Federal regulators are investigating whether California violated securities laws and failed to provide adequate disclosure about its giant public pension fund, according to a person with knowledge of the investigation.
The Securities and Exchange Commission normally polices companies, but last year it brought its first enforcement action ever against a state, accusing New Jersey of securities fraud for misleading bond investors about the condition of its pension fund. The commission signaled, in its settlement with New Jersey, that it was going to look more broadly at the pension disclosures of states and cities.
The fund, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers, lost about a quarter of its total investment portfolio during the financial crisis, leaving the state responsible for replacing billions of dollars each year and contributing to its huge deficit. The question is whether California adequately disclosed in the preceding years how risky the pension investments were and how much money it might need to cover any shortfall. 
But it is unclear whether investigators are focusing on those risks or on possible conflicts of interest in steering investments to related parties, the subject of a separate investigation by the attorney general of California.
S.E.C. officials declined to confirm an investigation, citing agency rules. But the person with knowledge of the investigation said it was among the agency's top priorities. A spokeswoman for Calpers, which is America's largest pension fund with assets of about $220 billion, said it had not been contacted by the S.E.C. about its accounting or about financial disclosures.
''The SEC has an ongoing look at pension funds in California'' because of revelations about the use of placement agents who recommended investment managers, said Patricia Macht, a spokeswoman for Calpers.
Along with concerns about the use of placement agents, regulators have grown increasingly concerned about whether states may have hidden financial weaknesses, particularly in their pension portfolios, and whether investors who buy municipal bonds can fully appreciate the risks.
A spokesman for the California state treasurer's office, which is responsible for disclosures to bondholders, said ''we provided all material information about pension fund issues at all times.''
California has not defaulted on any debts and says its bonds are safe. But the state has been grappling with big, structural budget deficits every year, and cannot easily increase revenue because of voter-approved tax caps. The state's credit has been downgraded as these financial problems have intensified, and the downgrades have in turn lowered its bonds' value. Had investors been able to clearly see the pension risks, they might have steered clear of California's debt or demanded a higher yield.
If federal investigators are able to make a case that California misled investors about the risk in its pension fund, it would send a powerful signal to other public funds, which almost without exception base their financial reporting on average annual investment returns of about 8 percent a year, something hard to defend in today's markets, no matter what the investment mix.
The S.E.C.'s goal is to force public pension funds to be more open, not just about their investments but about how their risk may affect the finances of the state. It is unlikely that the S.E.C. would impose any penalty because that would force taxpayers to pay for wrongs they knew nothing about. In the New Jersey case, the S.E.C. imposed no penalty but publicized the case in hopes it would be a deterrent.
Any accusation of securities fraud could take years because public finance is a new area for the S.E.C. and any case would rely on novel legal theories. It would be a blow to Calpers, which has used its institutional clout for years to promote good corporate governance and truth in accounting. Calpers has recently pushed for boardroom reforms at JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, Apple, and BP, among others. And it has sued Moody's, Fitch and Standard & Poor's, accusing them of giving ''untrue, inaccurate and unjustifiably high'' ratings to structured investment vehicles that failed in the mortgage collapse.
Its activism has served as a role model for smaller public pension funds that have also had losses, but might not have been able to challenge corporate governance practices on their own. But now the tables have turned, because S.E.C. investigators hope to use Calpers as an example in a case about of how misleading pension disclosures can amount to securities fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the investigation. Like most public plans, Calpers has maintained that its accounting methods are appropriate and that it is in full compliance.
Calpers has lately been under fire for a big benefit increase in 1999. At that time the fund ran various assumptions on how its investments might do. It discussed them in a public meeting but the state did not put them into its bond prospectus, which was the responsibility of the state treasurer, then Phil Angelides, who also sat on the board of Calpers.
In the years after that, Calpers stepped up its investments in real estate, riding the market up and then crashing when the housing bubble burst. The worst case, created by Calpers' staff, turned out to be oddly prescient. It said the state might have to come up with $3.95 billion a year in fresh money for the pension fund by the end of 2010. In fact, the state has to contribute $3.88 billion.
Mr. Angelides, now chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, was not available to comment Thursday because the commission was finishing its report.
David Crane, an aide to then Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, said last year in legislative testimony that he found it ''nothing short of astonishing'' that Calpers had ''promoted the largest nonvoter-approved debt issuance in California history'' without revealing the risks or conflicts of interest involved.
''Frankly, I've never seen anything like the Calpers sales document, which makes even Goldman Sachs's alleged nondisclosure look like child's play,'' said Mr. Crane, who testified at a time when the S.E.C. was suing Goldman Sachs over alleged disclosure violations in connection with mortgage-backed securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); BONDS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



165 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; 2011 CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: With Android Phones, Verizon Is in Position to Gain Lost Ground

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Five years ago, Verizon passed on the chance to be the exclusive carrier of the iPhone in the United States because it could not agree on the terms of a deal with Apple.
The iPhone, of course, went on to be a smartphone phenomenon, drawing new customers for AT&T, as Verizon looked on in envy.
Verizon is still the largest wireless carrier in the United States with 101 million subscribers, versus 93 million for AT&T at No. 2. But each quarter since the iPhone was introduced, AT&T added an average of 380,000 subscribers compared with Verizon, according to Chetan Sharma, an independent wireless analyst. 
Now Verizon is making its biggest push yet to regain lost ground.
The company will soon add the iPhone to its lineup, according to people with direct knowledge of Apple's plans. But Verizon is not putting all of its eggs into Apple's basket. It is deepening its ties with Google, which makes the popular Android software for mobile devices, and with handset makers like Motorola Mobility, HTC and Samsung.
''Verizon realized their mistake, and their best option was to embrace Android,'' said Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray who follows the telecommunications industry. ''They're covering all their bases.''
Another major part of the company's strategy is its faster fourth-generation network, which is already available in many cities and uses technology known as long-term evolution, or LTE. Analysts say this technology is shaping up to be the world's choice for the next phase of wireless expansion. AT&T's LTE network will not be ready until the end of the year.
At the Consumer Electronics Show here, Verizon announced a series of partnerships with hardware makers for no less than 10 tablets, phones and mobile hot spots that run on 4G, which until now has been available only on laptop cards and modems.
Lowell McAdam, the chief operating officer of Verizon Wireless, which is 45 percent owned by Vodafone of Britain, called the rollout of the LTE network a ''game changer'' for the company because of its speed.
A high-definition full-length movie that might have taken 4.5 hours to download on a 3G network will take less than 4.5 minutes on 4G, he said.
Analysts say that Verizon's lack of a deal with Apple may have been a benefit in one respect. AT&T has been plagued with comments from customers who complain about slow download speeds and spotty service. While AT&T poured billions into strengthening its creaking network, Verizon was working to invest billions in 4G.
''The perception was that Verizon needed the iPhone to survive,'' said James Brehm, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''But they've proved over the years that they did not need it to stay on top in terms of customers and what they've done without the iPhone.''
Tony Melone, chief technology officer for Verizon Wireless, said that not entering into a tight-knit relationship with Apple gave the company the freedom to pursue other alliances. ''It forced us to be creative and look for alternatives,'' he said.
As a result, he said, ''we have a healthy new portfolio and we ended up in a good spot.''
Now phone makers are eager to align themselves with Verizon so they can appear to be on the cutting edge of speed.
Ivan Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman, in a presentation at C.E.S. on Thursday, talked about coming 4G devices with Michael Cleron, one of the chief architects of Android at Google, and Sanjay Jha, chief of Motorola Mobility.
Earlier at the show, Motorola unveiled a 4G smartphone called the Droid Bionic that will be one of the first phones running on the LTE network. It also showed off a Google-powered LTE tablet computer that is to arrive in late 2011.
''The vast majority of our products in the second half of 2011 will have 4G capabilities,'' Mr. Jha said. ''The data demands of multimedia capabilities and more socially connected applications demand it.''
But will customers be as excited about 4G as the wireless industry is? Some analysts are skeptical about how many smartphone purchases will actually be swayed by the speed of a company's data network.
''Regular consumers think more about the handset than the network,'' said Elisabeth Rainge, an analyst at the research firm IDC. ''If they build LTE, will they come?''
Verizon, Ms. Rainge said, has ''good traction with customers, and subscribers have a sense that the signal is strong, but is that enough?''
At the least, said Mr. Sharma, the 4G network will give Verizon a strong marketing ace up its sleeve for the coming year.
''It gives them a lot of bragging rights,'' he said. ''They'll continue to hammer it big time in 2011.''
AT&T executives sound unconcerned. ''Customers don't care about G's,'' said Glenn Lurie, the company's head of emerging devices. ''They care about experience and devices, and we still have the best overall portfolio.''
Mr. Lurie said he was not concerned about any imminent loss of iPhone exclusivity. Even so, in a turn toward Android, AT&T said at C.E.S. that it would introduce at least a dozen Google-powered smartphones in the coming year, more than triple the number it offered previously.
''We're working with Google and will have an impressive innovation cycle of devices this year,'' Mr. Lurie said.
Google is a big part of Verizon's strategy too -- and Verizon's partnerships with Google and others will give it an impressive portfolio of tablets and phones for the first time in recent memory, Mr. Munster said.
''Verizon has a better relationship with handset makers, which gives them the ability to offer better phones,'' he said. ''Even with Android, they were late to the game, after they had no choice. Now they are being aggressive about LTE and their network performance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ivan Seidenberg, of Verizon, speaking at the C.E.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Sanjay Jha, chief executive of Motorola Mobility, said most of its products in the last half of 2011 would be for 4G networks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); 4G WIRELESS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (76%); 3G WIRELESS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); ELECTRONICS (74%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); MODEMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRADE SHOWS (63%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (56%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); APPLE INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); PJC (NYSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%); SANJAY K JHA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



166 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: In Daley, a Businessman's Voice in Oval Office

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington, and Eric Dash from New York. Barclay Walsh contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- He is a top executive at JPMorgan Chase, where he is paid as much as $5 million a year and supervises the Washington lobbying efforts of the nation's second-largest bank. He also serves on the board of directors at Boeing, the giant military contractor, and Abbott Laboratories, the global drug company, which has billions of dollars at stake in the overhaul of the health care system.
And now William M. Daley, the son and brother of Chicago mayors and a behind-the-scenes political player himself, will hold one of the most powerful jobs in Washington: chief of staff in the White House, where he will help decide who gets into the Oval Office and what President Obama's Capitol Hill agenda should be.
Mr. Daley's recruitment to Pennsylvania Avenue from the corporate boardroom is seen as a smart step by some in Washington, who argue that Mr. Obama has long needed a White House confidant who has the ear of the business community and a record of bipartisanship that might help the president negotiate with Republicans in Congress. 
''I think it's a very, very strong choice,'' said Thomas J. Donohue, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has been a harsh critic of the Obama administration and provided financial support that helped Republicans take control of the House in the November elections. ''Daley is a business person who understands politics.''
Mr. Daley, or the corporations he has served in recent years, have worked aggressively behind the scenes to water down or defeat central elements of Mr. Obama's agenda, opposing the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and elements of the health care bill.
That record is among the reasons his appointment, announced by Mr. Obama on Thursday afternoon, has alarmed some of the president's liberal supporters, who say that bringing Mr. Daley into the White House violates a commitment to curtail the sway of special interests.
''As the chief of staff, he is the gatekeeper, and that means real power in Washington,'' said Ellen S. Miller, co-founder of the Sunlight Foundation, which celebrated the move by Mr. Obama early in his presidency to release detailed logs of White House visitors and to impose restrictions on hiring lobbyists as aides. ''Just about any way you look at it, it creates a huge potential for a conflict of interest.''
The chief of staff job has sometimes been filled by corporate types, like Donald T. Regan, a top Wall Street executive and former Treasury secretary, who held the job in the Reagan administration. But more often, it goes to a political insider whose primary allegiance is to the president.
Mr. Daley, 62, who is not close to Mr. Obama even though both consider Chicago their base, has a well-rounded resume. He has been a lawyer in private practice, a bank president, a telecommunications company executive, a political strategist, a fund-raiser and campaign chief, a lobbyist for foreign corporations (he advocated on tax matters for Nestle and a Canadian petroleum company) and the commerce secretary in the Clinton administration for three years. His brother, Richard M. Daley, is departing after six terms as mayor of Chicago, where his family has an almost royal status.
Mr. Obama, during a ceremony in the East Room on Thursday, cited that long list of jobs as part of the reason he picked Mr. Daley.
''Few Americans can boast the breadth of experience that Bill brings to this job,'' the president said, adding that he was ''convinced that he'll help us in our mission of growing our economy and moving America forward.''
JPMorgan Chase has been Mr. Daley's primary corporate home since 2004. He was hired, company officials said, as something of consolation prize to Chicago when Chase, which has its headquarters in New York, was taking over Bank One, which was based in Chicago. Chase executives, including Jamie Dimon, its chairman, wanted to bring in someone with Chicago connections who could smooth over relations with wealthy clients and corporations there.
One Chase official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the matter, recalled, ''A few bankers said we should hire a Bill Daley,'' meaning someone with Chicago political connections and clout who could serve as a new public face for Chase.
Mr. Dimon's response was simple: ''How about Bill Daley?''
Mr. Daley started as chairman of Chase's Midwest operations, but by 2007 he had expanded his portfolio, joining the bank's senior leadership team as chief of its new Office of Corporate Social Responsibility, whose most important function was to oversee the company's global lobbying efforts.
At the time, Chase was trying to raise its profile in Washington. Senior company executives, including Mr. Dimon, began taking more trips to the capital to try to influence the terms of the TARP bailout -- they pushed to make it easier for banks to repay the money -- in 2008. Last year, Chase officials fought aspects of the historic revision of the nation's financial regulations, including the creation of the consumer protection bureau.
Mr. Daley was never registered as a lobbyist for Chase, but he played a role in hiring and was the direct supervisor of Peter L. Scher, another former Clinton administration official, who runs the bank's lobbying shop in Washington. Mr. Daley also served as the bank's chief liaison with the White House, frequently consulting with Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, and Rahm Emanuel, whom he is replacing.
Mr. Daley's salary is not public, but one person with knowledge of Chase's executive compensation said that he has made $3 million to $5 million a year. He will be taking a considerable pay cut in accepting the $170,000-a-year White House post.
Boeing, which is also based in Chicago, named Mr. Daley to its board in 2006, saying that his appointment would enhance its lobbying efforts and help promote international sales of its commercial planes and military equipment. In 2009, he earned $230,000 from Boeing in compensation and stock awards and $220,867 from Abbott Laboratories.
Abbott Labs, like Boeing and Chase, has a long list of regulatory and legislative matters in play in Washington, like a tax in the health care bill that could cost medical-device makers like Abbott $20 billion over the next decade. A White House chief of staff is likely to be involved in discussions about repealing the legislation, as House Republicans have proposed, or aspects of it.
Critics of Mr. Daley's appointment said his corporate work would cause problems. They argue that he will have to recuse himself from matters relating to Chase, Abbott and Boeing or bow out of discussions involving financial regulations, health care and major Defense Department acquisitions, like the contract for a giant Air Force refueling tanker for which Boeing is competing.
''These are all issues that come across the chief of staff's desk,'' said James A. Thurber, an American University professor and specialist on ethics and lobbying in Washington. ''Is he going to stand outside of the flow as each of them heads to the president? I don't see that, and if he doesn't, there will the perception, and maybe the reality, of a conflict of interest.''
Others dismiss such concerns as unfounded, saying that Mr. Daley, who is to start his new job as early as next week, would not make decisions on policy and would hardly have sole power over who sees the president.
Supporters of the appointment say Mr. Daley's diversity of experience is exactly what Mr. Obama needs -- an experienced manager who can serve as an intermediary for the White House with various constituencies whose support is critical to the president. David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president who is leaving the White House soon, said Mr. Obama thought hard before naming his new top aide.
''The chief is the only one in the administration who has as broad a responsibility as the president, and he's the one who's ultimately accountable to the president,'' Mr. Axelrod said in an interview. ''It is a very, very serious and consequential decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William M. Daley and President Obama at the ceremony announcing Mr. Daley's new job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHART: Daley's Roles: William M. Daley, who will be the new White House chief of staff, is a top executive at JPMorgan Chase, and serves on several corporate boards. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); MILLER CO (63%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS331491 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (63%); SIC3356 ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING OF NONFERROUS METALS, EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



167 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Gates Seeks Cuts In Armed Forces, Citing Economy

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday that the nation's ''extreme fiscal duress'' now required him to call for cuts in the size of the Army and Marine Corps, reversing the significant growth in military spending that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
The White House has told the Pentagon to squeeze that growth over the next five years, Mr. Gates said, reducing by $78 billion the amount available for the Pentagon, not counting the costs of its combat operations.
The decision to go after the Pentagon budget, even while troops remain locked in combat overseas, is the clearest indication yet that President Obama will be cutting spending broadly across the government as he seeks to reduce the deficit -- and stave off attacks from Republicans in Congress who want to shrink the government even more. 
Republicans have for the most part resisted including military spending as they search for quick reductions in federal spending.
To make ends meet, Mr. Gates also announced that he would seek to recoup billions of dollars by increasing fees paid by retired veterans under 65 for Defense Department health insurance, even though Congress has rejected such proposals in the past. And he outlined extensive cuts in new weapons.
Cutting up to 47,000 troops from the Army and Marine Corps forces -- roughly 6 percent -- would be made easier by the withdrawal under way from Iraq, and the reductions would not begin until 2015, just as Afghan forces are to take over the security mission there. But Mr. Gates said the cuts in Pentagon spending were hardly a peace dividend, and were forced by a global economic recession and domestic pressures to find ways to throttle back federal spending.
''This department simply cannot risk continuing down the same path where our investment priorities, bureaucratic habits and lax attitudes toward costs are increasingly divorced from the real threats of today, the growing perils of tomorrow and the nation's grim financial outlook,'' Mr. Gates said at an afternoon news conference.
The president's budget for the 2012 fiscal year, which is due by mid-February, would freeze discretionary spending, but that would not apply to military, veterans and Homeland Security programs. Last fall, a majority of the members of Mr. Obama's bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, including three Republican senators, said military spending also should be reduced as part of a long-term debt-reduction plan.
The Pentagon's proposed operating budget for 2012 is expected to be about $553 billion, which would still reflect real growth, even though it is $13 billion less than expected. The Pentagon budget will then begin a decline in its rate of growth for two years, and stay flat -- growing only to match inflation -- for the 2015 and 2016 fiscal years. (The Pentagon operating budget is separate from a fund that finances the Afghanistan and Iraq wars.)
''This plan represents, in my view, the minimum level of defense spending that is necessary, given the complex and unpredictable array of security challenges the United States faces around the globe: global terrorist networks, rising military powers, nuclear-armed rogue states and much, much more,'' Mr. Gates said.
To be sure, the actual size and shape of future military budgets will continue to be reset by annual spending proposals from the president, and those in turn will be based on shifting economic factors -- decline or growth -- and threats around the world, as well as by Congressional action.
But for now, the Army is expected in 2015 to begin cutting its active-duty troop levels by 27,000, and the Marine Corps by up to 20,000. Together, those force reductions would save $6 billion in 2015 and 2016.
Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that all four service chiefs supported the proposals, and that the military would still be able to manage global risks. ''We can't hold ourselves exempt from the belt-tightening,'' he said. ''Neither can we allow ourselves to contribute to the very debt that puts our long-term security at risk.''
The Army's ranks number 569,600, and the Marine Corps has just over 202,000 members; both would remain larger than when Mr. Gates became defense secretary four years ago.
Mr. Gates already had instructed the armed services and the Pentagon bureaucracy to find ways to operate more efficiently, with the savings plowed back into the budget to make up for anticipated shortfalls; otherwise the cuts in troops and weapons would have been even steeper.
The armed services have identified about $100 billion in savings over five years.
Separately, the Defense Department bureaucracy had identified about $54 billion more, from things like reducing contractor hiring, freezing personnel rolls, reducing the number of generals and admirals and closing or consolidating headquarters.
Many of those changes can be carried out unilaterally by the Pentagon or the armed services.
But some -- especially increases in fees for the military's health-care system, called Tricare -- require Congressional approval, and have been rejected before.
Proposals to increase Tricare fees will pit Mr. Gates against those in Congress -- and veterans' groups -- who say retired military personnel already have paid up front with service in uniform. Ten years ago, health care cost the Pentagon $19 billion; today, it tops $50 billion; five years from now it is projected to cost $65 billion.
But Tricare fees have not increased since 1995.
Mr. Gates was expected to press for increasing the cost of health insurance premiums and spot fees only for working-age retirees and their families, not for those on active duty or those 65 and older, to save $7 billion over five years.
Mr. Gates also announced cuts in several weapons systems, led by the cancellation of the Marines' $14.4 billion Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, a combined landing craft and tank for amphibious assaults.
Mr. Gates said the Pentagon would add $4.6 billion to the cost of developing the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, made by Lockheed Martin, and would cover much of that expense by delaying purchases of 124 of the planes.
He said that one of the three versions of the aircraft might need to be redesigned, and that he was placing that model, made for the Marines, ''on the equivalent of a two-year probation.''
Federal officials said Mr. Gates had been seeking to increase the basic Pentagon budget, excluding war costs, to $566 billion for the 2012 fiscal year, but had to push the White House to approve $553 billion.
Gordon Adams, a Clinton administration budget official who served on Mr. Obama's transition team, said he understood that White House budget officials initially wanted to shave the Pentagon's original, larger request by at least $20 billion for 2012.
Mr. Adams said Mr. Gates met with Mr. Obama three times before Christmas to get at least $7 billion restored. Mr. Gates was also able to persuade the White House to reduce its demands for cuts over the next five years to $78 billion from $150 billion. Even so, Mr. Adams said, ''I think the floor under defense spending has now gone soft.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, with Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, announcing plans to reduce Army and Marine Corps strength by 47,000, starting in 2015. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); VETERANS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



168 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: The Downsizing in Detroit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WAYNE, Mich. -- Ten years ago, the Ford Motor plant here churned out giant Expedition and Navigator sport utility vehicles that got 12 miles to the gallon -- and it was one of the most profitable auto factories in the world.
Today, after a $550 million renovation, the 140-acre plant is a symbol of a very different Detroit: a greener, leaner industry focused on smaller, energy-efficient cars. The factory will now build Ford's newest compact car, the Focus, in four different and progressively more fuel-efficient versions, including an all-electric one that will be unveiled on Friday and go on sale this year.
Although the transformation has been a long time coming, Ford and the rest of the domestic auto industry appear to be finally giving up their addiction to gas-guzzling trucks and sport utility vehicles. Prodded first by rising federal fuel economy standards, then shocked in 2008 by $145-a-barrel oil and a global credit crisis that forced General Motors and Chrysler to seek federal bailouts, Detroit is making a fundamental shift toward lighter, more fuel-conscious cars -- and turning a profit doing so.
Japanese automakers still hold a lead in overall fuel economy, and Toyota, despite its recall troubles, remains the top seller of hybrids with its Prius. 
But Detroit has closed the gap significantly. Last year, passenger cars made by Ford and G.M. averaged more than 30 miles per gallon, according to federal rankings, compared with 27 m.p.g. a decade ago.
G.M. began delivering a plug-in electric hybrid, the Chevrolet Volt, in December, and the company will show off a new compact Buick sedan next week at the Detroit auto show. It is expected to get 31 m.p.g. in highway driving, a far cry from the lumbering Buick Roadmaster of the past.
Of course, many American consumers have yet to give up their affection for larger vehicles, and the domestic automakers still rely on light trucks and S.U.V.'s for a large share of their profits. But the huge, 8,000-pound land yachts of yore have given way to slimmer so-called crossover vehicles that have less powerful engines but can still hold seven people.
With oil prices once again trading around $90 a barrel and gasoline topping $3 a gallon, the American auto companies are pushing hard to accelerate their green transition. G.M.'s new chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, has told his product executives to plan for oil at $120 a barrel and gasoline at more than $4 a gallon, according to company insiders.
The Obama administration is also nudging the industry along with money for cutting-edge auto technology. The Energy Department has made nearly 50 grants worth $2.4 billion for research and manufacturing. G.M. alone received $241 million, most of it related to the Volt.
Ford, which avoided the disruptions of bankruptcy that befell G.M. and Chrysler in 2009, is further ahead than its hometown rivals in overhauling its fleet, and it is eager to get that message out.
On Friday, it will unveil the all-electric version of its Ford Focus -- its answer to the Nissan Leaf and Chevrolet Volt -- at an event in New York with its chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., and another in Las Vegas with its chief executive, Alan R. Mulally.
''All of us know energy is going to be more expensive going forward,'' Mr. Mulally said in an interview. ''Consumers are coming together around the world on quality as a reason to purchase and fuel efficiency as a reason to purchase.''
By 2012, the Focus compact will be available to buyers in four versions: gasoline-powered, conventional hybrid, plug-in hybrid and fully electric. All will be built in the Wayne plant, which can easily change the mix of vehicles produced.
While the American automakers still make more truck-based models than their foreign rivals, they have radically scaled back their production. Since 2004, G.M., Ford and Chrysler have closed 17 assembly plants in the United States and Canada that built pickup trucks, S.U.V.'s and vans. It was an unprecedented overhaul that removed about 3.5 million low-mileage vehicles from their annual manufacturing capacity.
The government-sponsored bankruptcies of G.M. and Chrysler, and significant reorganization at Ford on its own, have restored fiscal health to the industry, which had been reeling from overcapacity, huge health care costs and a collapse in consumer credit.
Now Ford can make money building the Focus in its former S.U.V. plant. Health care costs for retirees, which used to add about $1,500 to every vehicle made in a union plant, have been offloaded to a trust administered by the United Automobile Workers. The union has also trimmed staff levels and agreed to lower starting wage scales to bring down manufacturing costs.
''We've always had a great market for small vehicles in the United States,'' Mr. Mulally said. ''We didn't have small vehicles because we couldn't make them here profitably.''
Both G.M. and Ford are expected to report impressive profits for 2010, despite annual United States sales well below the 17 million that the industry sold a few years ago. Chrysler, which is still losing money, is lagging in the switchover from trucks to smaller cars as it awaits new products from its Italian partner, Fiat.
Skeptics concede that the domestic companies have narrowed the gap in fuel economy with Japanese automakers, but say that the American automakers need to extend their advanced gas-saving technology to all of their models.
''It's clear that the Detroit manufacturers are aware of the right decisions and are selectively applying them,'' said Jim Kliesch, a senior engineer in the clean-vehicle program at the Union of Concerned Scientists. ''What we want to see them do is apply them across the board.''
Ford still sold nearly twice as many light trucks as cars in 2010 in the United States. But the vehicle size and mileage of its overall fleet of products have changed substantially.
Its best-selling S.U.V. last year was the smallest in the lineup, the compact Ford Escape, which gets 23 miles to the gallon and is available as a gas-electric hybrid that gets 32 miles a gallon. A decade ago, the iconic Ford Explorer was the industry's top-selling S.U.V. at 15 m.p.g. (Ford just revamped the Explorer and improved its gas mileage by 25 percent.)
The company is also offering its first full-size pickup with a smaller, turbocharged engine instead of a traditional V-8. And once its big sedans like the Crown Victoria are discontinued, Ford's largest passenger car will be the medium-size Taurus.
Analysts say that the auto industry's big investments in electric and plug-in models will not pay off for some time in the marketplace but represent an attempt to gain an important foothold with environmentally conscious consumers.
''There are significant questions about the economic viability of battery-electric vehicles, yet all of the major auto companies are engaged in it,'' said Jay Baron, the chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
Last year, hybrid sales fell 8 percent, and accounted for just 2 percent of the overall domestic sales, of 11.6 million vehicles.
Far more important to reducing the nation's fuel consumption are the industry's efforts to make gasoline-powered cars and trucks more efficient.
''The domestic automakers have done a terrific job of catching up to some of the technology that's been available, such as direct fuel injection,'' Mr. Baron said. ''Those technologies can get 30 percent improvements in fuel economy, but there is a limit.''
Even if consumers are not necessarily ready to buy hybrid and electric cars in big numbers, the carmakers say there is no turning back on their efficiency drive. New federal standards will require a fleet average of 36 miles per gallon by 2016. That is a 30 percent improvement from the 27 m.p.g. required for the 2011 model year.
''Are we going to stick with improving fuel economy? You don't have a choice,'' Mr. Akerson of G.M. said. ''The government has told us what we have to do, and we will meet those goals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 2012 Focus, top, at Ford's assembly plant in Wayne, Mich., where it will be built. The plant, above, used to make S.U.V.'s but has been renovated. (B1)
 William Clay Ford Jr., left, Ford's chairman, and Alan Mulally, the carmaker's chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); TOYOTA RECALLS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (75%); ALAN MULALLY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



169 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Shares Mixed as Investors Wait to See Jobs Report

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Two of the major indexes slipped Thursday as soft retail sales and a sharp rise in the dollar left investors edgy a day before the December jobs report.
Given a rise of about 8 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since the start of December, investors could be looking for an excuse to sell stocks if the jobs report falls short of forecasts that were raised after Wednesday's strong private sector payroll report. 
''If tomorrow's payroll numbers don't live up to expectations, that could create the correction that some have been predicting,'' said Paul Radeke, vice president at KDV Wealth Management in Minneapolis.
Investors expect a gain of 175,000 in overall nonfarm payrolls in December and a decline in the unemployment rate to 9.7 percent from 9.8 percent.
Several big retailers missed estimates for December comparable store sales, weighing on consumer shares. Target fell 6.8 percent, to $54.93, and Gap was 6.9 percent lower at $20.70. The S.& P. retail index lost 1.6 percent. The S.& P. consumer discretionary sector fell 0.7 percent.
The weakness ''was both surprising and disturbing,'' said Walter Todd, chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital Associates in Greenwood, S.C. ''It makes me think it had more to do with weather than fundamentals.''
The dollar rose 0.7 percent, helping send crude oil prices down 2.2 percent. The oilfield services company Halliburton dropped 3 percent, to $38.22, while United States Steel shed 2.5 percent, to $59.06.
''Demand for commodities should continue to improve, but in the short term there's a negative correlation between the dollar and commodities,'' Mr. Todd said.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 25.58 points, or 0.2 percent, at 11,697.31. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.71 points, or 0.2 percent, at 1,273.85. The Nasdaq composite index was up 7.69 points, or 0.3 percent, at 2,709.89.
The Nasdaq was buoyed by Nvidia, which surged 13.8 percent, to $19.33, on optimism over a new mobile chip.
Also among Nasdaq gainers was Microsoft, which rose 2.9 percent, to $28.82, after it took a step away from its alliance with Intel to team up with ARM Holdings of Britain in the tablet and smartphone arena. Intel fell 0.8 percent, to $20.77.
Telecommunications shares were among the top drags on the Dow, with AT&T down 1.4 percent at $29.15 and Verizon Communications off 2.6 percent at $36.23.
New jobless claims rose more than expected in the last week, though the four-week average dropped to its lowest level in more than two years.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 18/32, to 93 19/32, and the yield fell to 3.39 percent, from 3.47 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); SMARTPHONES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (54%); INTEL CORP (52%); NVIDIA CORP (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (52%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



170 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Dining Experiences, All Illicit, That Extend Beyond the Palate

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
In an old converted warehouse in San Francisco's Mission district recently, about 65 gourmands dined by candlelight at The Wild Kitchen, an event presented by the group forageSF.
One after another, courses arrived from the kitchen: fish soup, duck fat potatoes, fusilli con cinghiale (pasta with wild boar). With each bite and sigh of delight, the crowd eagerly participated in a crime -- a scrumptious one, but illegal nonetheless.
Welcome to the world of underground dining: gourmet pop-up restaurants that operate outside the system of health department licenses and inspections. Food lovers have attended these clandestine feasts for years, but the general public's growing appetite for adventurous eating has caused the popularity of these events to rise and could produce a new generation of culinary stars. 
Unless they get busted first.
''They're renegade restaurants,'' said Alison Bing, food writer and San Francisco Lonely Planet guidebook author, who has tracked the phenomenon. ''People are willing to pay for a unique experience.''
Being illicit is part of the excitement, with diners learning the secret locations only hours before service. There is also a heightened level of camaraderie, since attendees eat together at large tables.
''It has a lot to do with the communal dining experience,'' said Anil Margsahayam, co-founder of another underground eatery, the Stag Dining Group, so named because all five owners (chefs, hunters, marketers, performers and conservationists) are unmarried and want diners to mingle.
The Wild Kitchen's menu -- $100 per person (B.Y.O.B.) on two packed consecutive nights -- was inspired by a recent trip to France by Iso Rabins, 29, a chef and the scruffy, charismatic founder of forageSF. As the group's name implies, the dishes contained ingredients -- mushrooms, leafy greens and seaweed -- that were gathered in the wild.
Mr. Rabins described foraging as ''collecting food that won't run away.'' The exception was the wild boar, which was hunted, shot and skinned on private property near Paso Robles. (After many hours of cooking, it tasted like pulled pork.)
Mr. Rabins, whose first name, Iso, means ''seashore'' in Japanese -- ''My parents were hippies,'' he said -- is one of the more prominent faces of the underground dining scene. He has taped segments for two coming Travel Channel programs, ''Bizarre Foods'' and ''The Wild Within,'' where he prepared ''roadkill raccoon.'' (The raccoon was supplied by the TV show, he noted.) He has about 22,000 subscribers to his newsletter, which promotes the dinners and a monthly Underground Market.
Attracting some 2,500 fans, the market allows home cooks to sell their creations -- from fresh baked fruit tarts to savory meat dishes -- an idea that runs afoul of health codes. At the first market in December 2009, city health department inspectors arrived.
''I was terrified,'' Mr. Rabins said. ''They said, 'This is illegal.' '' The contretemps was resolved by making the market a membership event where attendees sign a release acknowledging the risks.
The restaurants, however, are not as easily legalized, since the meals are not prepared in inspected, commercial kitchens, and because ingredients that are foraged are not subjected to government safety regulations.
''People are taking a risk. If we get complaints, we'll investigate,'' said Richard Lee, manager of restaurant inspectors for the San Francisco Department of Public Health. But Mr. Lee said he knew of no cases where diners had become ill at the events.
Ms. Bing, who has attended underground dinners, said she had mixed feelings about the lack of health department oversight. As a food journalist, she considers inspection scores essential when covering restaurants, and she raised possible concerns about fair wages and compliance with environmental laws.
''We are close to a zero-waste environment, a zero-landfill environment,'' said Matthew Homyak, a co-founder of Stag Dining.
As far as employees are concerned, volunteers work the events for now, but there are ambitions to become a thriving legal business, perhaps even to obtain a catering license.
In the meantime, they say they are following the same food preparation rules of any clean restaurant. ''We're keeping ourselves safe,'' said Jordan Grosser, one of two professionally trained chef-owners with Stag Dining.
Mr. Rabins did not attend culinary school. He has a film degree from Emerson College and had limited professional cooking experience before this venture. His passion for foraged food, like city snails to make escargot, seems more of a personal calling.
''It really changes the way you view the natural environment,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD ALOISIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); WILDLIFE (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); PORK (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



171 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Renault Suspends 3 Suspected of Revealing Secrets

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and DAVID JOLLY; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
PARIS -- The French government said on Thursday that it would seek to bolster industrial secrecy rules after the automaker Renault suspended three executives, including a member of its management committee, who are suspected of compromising the electric car technology on which the company is betting its future.
''There's a broad danger for French industry,'' the industry minister, Eric Besson, said during an interview with RTL radio. The phrase ''economic war'' is appropriate in this case, he added. 
Mr. Besson said the affair appeared to be ''serious, and again highlights the risks that our companies face from industrial spying.''
While few details about the case have been made public, the investigation appeared to focus on possible efforts to obtain Renault's electric car technology.
Mr. Besson declined to elaborate, except to say that the government would be working with French companies to help protect their industrial secrets.
A spokeswoman for Renault, Frederique Le Greves, said she could not comment in detail because an internal review was under way. She did, however, confirm that three employees were suspended Monday after an internal investigation that began in August turned up apparent violations of Renault's ethics policy.
''What they did was very severe,'' Ms. Le Greves said, adding: ''It wasn't just a case of them giving pictures to the media, for instance.''
Christian Husson, Renault's general counsel and compliance officer, said all of the suspended employees had ''extremely strategic positions'' at the company.
Mr. Husson also said in a statement that the company had found a ''body of converging evidence demonstrating that three group employees have committed misconduct that infringes Renault's ethics, consciously and deliberately endangering the company's assets.''
He said the case would ''inevitably result in legal action.''
The company said it could not identify the employees while an investigation was under way. But a person with knowledge of the situation, who was not authorized to speak publicly, confirmed that one employee involved was Michel Balthazard, senior vice president for advanced engineering and a member of the management committee, which is run by Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive.
The company declined to make Mr. Balthazard available. Mr. Balthazard, who has also been widely identified in the news media, could not be reached for comment via his work e-mail or through a phone directory search in the Paris region.
Neither Renault nor the office of Mr. Besson, the industry minister, would say whether the executives were caught actually passing information or whether an industrial rival or foreign country was suspected. But one country likely to receive scrutiny is China.
The United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which is appointed by Congress, said in a report in 2009 that Beijing had been ''a major beneficiary of technology acquired through industrial espionage.'' China has denied in the past that its intelligence agencies were engaged in stealing commercial secrets.
Renault is the second-largest automaker in France, after PSA Peugeot Citroen. Renault and its Japanese partner, Nissan Motor, are betting heavily on electric car technology for growth. The technology is made more attractive by the tax incentives many countries offer for purchases of electric vehicles.
''We're in a period of change, and players in developing countries are trying to catch up,'' said Philippe Houchois, head of European auto industry research in London for UBS. ''Demand for technology transfer may be greater now than it's been for many years, and Renault and Nissan are probably the most advanced in getting electric vehicles to large-scale production.''
''The whole industry is concerned about protecting its secrets,'' Mr. Houchois added, ''but it's getting increasingly difficult to do so.''
With Nissan, Renault is investing 4 billion euros, or $5.3 billion, in the electric car sector. Renault owns more than 43 percent of Nissan, and Nissan owns more than 14 percent of Renault. The French government is the largest shareholder in Renault, with slightly more than 15 percent. Nissan declined to comment.
Batteries could be an area of interest to Renault's rivals. In the race for electric car supremacy, the company that develops the best battery could put itself in the lead for a generation, guaranteeing its own supply.
Nissan and NEC, the Japanese electronics company, have a venture to make electric car batteries. Analysts said Renault had been quite reliant on that technology until now, but it was also pushing hard on its own second- and third-generation battery technology.
It currently has more than 200 patents, confirmed or pending, on electric vehicle and battery technology. It plans to make its own batteries at plants in Britain, Portugal and France.
Renault will introduce three electric cars in Europe this year: a sedan, built in Turkey; a light commercial vehicle, made in France; and a city car, made in Spain. Next year, it plans to offer a compact, called the Zoe, based on its Clio.
The Nissan Leaf, a plug-in electric car, was introduced in the United States and Japan last year and will have its debut this year in Britain, Portugal, Ireland and the Netherlands.
The Chevrolet Volt from G.M., a plug-in hybrid electric car, was introduced last year. Ford Motor is planning to introduce an electric version of the Ford Focus at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Besson, left, France's minister of industry, with Prime Minister Francois Fillon at an economic conference, warned of ''broad danger'' for France because of industrial espionage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS)
 Engine of the Renault electric model Fluence ZE. The carmaker's electric technology is believed to have been compromised. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIGUEL MEDINA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ETHICS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (96%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (96%); RNO (BIT) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (58%); FRANCOIS FILLON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (50%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%) FRANCE (95%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



172 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Battle Against Blight

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
The four-story wreck that is 920 Kelly Street is a South Bronx time machine for Harry De Rienzo. Its broken windows, garbage-choked halls, mold-mottled rooms and smoky stench remind him of what much of the area looked like nearly 35 years ago, when he first arrived to work at a settlement house.
Back then, 920 was among a handful of tidy buildings maintained by a landlord who was struggling against the arson and abandonment encroaching all around. His pluck inspired Mr. De Rienzo to organize the block and its beleaguered residents into the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, which renovated three crumbling buildings on the street and started Mr. De Rienzo on a career providing housing for poor and working people.
Half a lifetime later, Mr. De Rienzo is back on the block. But this time he is trying to save 920 and four neighboring buildings, which have fallen into such disrepair that they are considered among the city's worst, with more than 2,000 housing code violations among them. 
If Kelly Street was once an outpost of hope, Mr. De Rienzo and others worry that it may now be a harbinger of trouble for the South Bronx and beyond. In the feverish real estate speculation of the past decade, buildings like these were passed back and forth among landlords and banks. But since the bubble burst, the properties have fallen into financial limbo; many owners cannot keep up on mortgage payments, much less repairs.
''This is a real big problem,'' said Mr. De Rienzo, 57, a plain-spoken, streetwise New Yorker who is now chief executive of Banana Kelly. ''They thought they could always cash out their equity and flip the property. But when the recession hit, that kind of predatory investing stopped -- and the tenants got stuck.''
Back in 1976, the fires that would incinerate so much of the South Bronx had begun to nip around the edges of Kelly Street when Mr. De Rienzo, fresh out of Manhattan College, started working at the settlement house, Casita Maria, running a basketball program.
Cooling down after games, he chatted with residents about the neighborhood, where a near-bankrupt city was taking over scores of tax-delinquent and abandoned buildings, but doing little to make them livable.
He befriended Leon Potts, whose father, Frank, a hard-working jack-of-all-trades, owned several buildings on Kelly, living with his family in one of them.
''Potts was totally at variance with everything that was going on in the South Bronx at the time,'' Mr. De Rienzo said. ''Here was a landlord who was staying put. He used to wake up at 5 in the morning to go to work on the trucks in Hunts Point. Then he'd come back and work on his buildings. He'd be so tired, sometimes I saw him sitting on the stoop, too tired to walk up three steps to his apartment.''
It was wrenching for Mr. De Rienzo to watch adjoining buildings go vacant, but he saw them as an opportunity.
''The city had written off the area,'' he said. ''Landlords had run away. So all we could do was sweat equity and do it for ourselves, since nobody else was going to do it.''
By the end of the 1970s, the three buildings that prompted the formation of Banana Kelly had been renovated and were being run by tenants. The organization expanded into social services and education. Mr. De Rienzo went to law school, and then to work for a foundation that supported community-based housing groups. And Mr. Potts, long the mainstay of his block, sold his buildings and moved away.
Today, to tour the blocks around Kelly Street is to see a world transformed. On Longwood Avenue, neat brick town houses line the wide street. Modest apartments have risen from empty lots. Even Little Korea, a stretch of Fox Street notorious for its murders, looks suburban with its boxy white homes.
Banana Kelly, the group that helped with the rebirth, did not fare so well. Mr. De Rienzo and others watched with alarm throughout the 1990s as the group sought international attention for its ideas on urban development while neglecting the housing that had been its original mission. In 2002 the state attorney general, spurred by complaints of mismanagement, forced out the group's leadership.
As part of the deal, Mr. De Rienzo was coaxed into returning temporarily to get the group back on solid financial ground. He wound up staying on.
This year, conditions in the old Potts properties became so bad that two advocacy groups, Mothers on the Move and the Urban Justice Center, began speaking with tenants and city officials. In recent years, the city had placed four of the five buildings in a program that made emergency repairs and then billed the landlord.
Mr. De Rienzo began inquiring about the buildings after he noticed several boarded-up apartments while walking on his old block. A few weeks ago, he joined Mothers on the Move on an impromptu inspection and was alarmed by what he saw -- particularly because a number of tenants have H.I.V. or AIDS.
Visitors to 935 Kelly Street have to step over a pool of water formed by drips from a gaping hole in the ceiling. A pile of garbage and liquor bottles fills a corner of the lobby. In one of the 32 apartments, Victoria Rosario has laid out brick-size rat traps -- she has caught 12 so far -- and sealed the holes in the walls with plywood.
At 920 Kelly, doors to empty apartments swing open to reveal garbage and feces-smeared rooms where windows have been knocked off their frames. A smoky odor wafts from the burned-out apartment next to Hector Claudio's fourth-floor home. Inside, his walls are gray from mildew and soot.
''I threw out my sofa,'' Mr. Claudio said in a raspy voice that rose barely beyond a whisper. ''I had to throw out my clothes. I have asthma, fatigue and H.I.V. It's too much. This has to stop.''
Just who owns the buildings is uncertain. While city records identify the owner as John Abraham, the city's housing agency can find no deed in his name. Tenants said they had been dealing with owners at an office on Washington Avenue, but the people who work there said they no longer managed the building because Mr. Abraham had refused to pay for repairs.
Mr. Abraham did not respond to phone messages, and a letter sent by messenger to the address listed in city records was returned as undeliverable.
Ridgewood Savings Bank holds a $5 million mortgage on the buildings. Mr. De Rienzo said he would try to force the bank to either repair the buildings or assign ownership to his community group.
Joseph T. Curcio, the bank's vice president and marketing director, said that the properties were in good repair when the mortgage was issued ''several years ago,'' and that he had no idea of their current state. When told of the worst violations, he said, ''Oh, my God.''
Mr. Curcio said the bank had begun foreclosure proceedings. ''We're left holding the bag as much as these poor tenants,'' he said. ''It's unconscionable the landlord allowed these conditions to exist.''
The city, which continues to make repairs on the buildings, is now in discussion with Banana Kelly to see if the group can take over the buildings and avail itself of loan and repair programs. City officials have also been talking with banks to alert them to loans they have made to owners of similarly distressed properties in other neighborhoods.
For Mr. De Rienzo, who helped Kelly Street rebuild itself brick by brick, his latest crusade is about a much more personal debt.
''After more than 30 years dealing with this block, these people are like friends and family to me, so I can't just walk away,'' he said. ''I'm not looking to save the world. I'm just looking to build something that will last beyond me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Garbage in the lobby of 935 Kelly Street, a South Bronx building that Harry De Rienzo helped restore from neglect in the 1970s, working with the Banana Kelly community improvement group. Mr. De Rienzo is now the organization's leader.
HARRY DE RIENZO: Chief executive, Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association (A16)
 Hector Claudio, at window, in his apartment at 920 Kelly Street, with a building resident who did not want to be identified. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (71%); ARSON (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BASKETBALL (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



173 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: N.H.L. ROUNDUP; Financial Trouble Hasn't Slowed the Stars

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and JEFF Z. KLEIN

 BODY:
The Rangers head to Dallas on Friday to face the Stars, one of the more intriguing stories this season in the N.H.L. on and off the ice.
After failing to make the playoffs the last two years, the Stars are atop the Pacific Division with 52 points as they enter the second half of their season. General Manager Joe Nieuwendyk is credited with assembling a successful blue-collar team despite having the league's fifth-lowest payroll. 
Much like the Phoenix Coyotes last season, the Stars have had success despite turmoil off the ice. The N.H.L. has been helping run the team since the beginning of this season because the team's owner, Tom Hicks, ran into financial trouble.
The Stars are the last of Hicks's three teams. The Texas Rangers were sold last summer, and his stake in Liverpool F.C., one of the most storied English soccer teams, was sold by the team's board. Hicks was forced to sell the teams when the economy soured and his debts piled up.
With help from the N.H.L., Hicks's lenders have been trying to find a buyer for the Stars and a 50 percent stake in the American Airlines Center; the two assets are worth an estimated $275 million. A few investors have shown interest.
A potential bidder is Mark Cuban, who owns the Mavericks and the other half of the arena. In an e-mail, Cuban said he had not looked closely at the Stars' books, but ''if it gets me control of the arena, I would consider'' buying the team.
Bill Daly, the deputy commissioner of the N.H.L., said a sale of the team was not imminent because no one had been ''willing to pay fair value for the club.''
Despite their more recent troubles, the Stars were perhaps the only N.H.L. team in the American Sun Belt to experience a consistent level of financial success from the 1990s into the mid-2000s. They remain one of the 10 most valuable hockey franchises, according to Forbes.
The team started as the Minnesota North Stars in 1967, and moved to Dallas for the 1993-94 season as part of the N.H.L.'s foray into the American South. Hicks bought the club for $84 million in December 1995.
The Stars won the Stanley Cup in 1999 after a controversial goal that Brett Hull scored in overtime of Game 6 at Buffalo. They reached the Cup finals again the following year, but fell to the Devils in six games.
Three straight exits in the first-round of the playoffs between 2004 and 2007, and their recent playoff drought, coupled with Hicks's money problems, have eroded fan interest in Dallas. The Stars are 23rd in attendance this season.
Even with the tightened purse strings and apathy in the stands, the Stars have played well. The Rangers, however, have not fared well in Dallas. On their last visit to Dallas nearly two years ago, the Rangers gave up 10 goals. They have won two games and lost six there, with three others ending in ties.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOCCER (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS STARS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); PHOENIX COYOTES (57%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



174 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'BEING HAROLD PINTER'; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Political Theater, Brought to You By the Politically Powerless

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
A playwright's legacy throbs with anguished, enduring life in ''Being Harold Pinter,'' a work of harrowing intensity and commitment from the Belarus Free Theater at La MaMa, part of the Under the Radar Festival of experimental theater that began this week. Tracing the relationship between power and violence in the works of Pinter, who died in 2008, this production out of Eastern Europe is both dismaying and extraordinarily heartening.
For while ''Being Harold Pinter'' would seem to confirm the worst conjectures of its subject's late-career, expressly political dramas -- all parables of state-sanctioned crimes against humanity -- it is also a testament to the power of a single playwright to inspire, illuminate and give articulate voice to powerlessness. Created by a troupe for which performance is an act of potentially imprisonable defiance, and whose members' arrival in New York remained uncertain until this week because of recent conflicts with the Belarus state police, ''Being Harold Pinter'' is truly passionate, truly political theater. 
For that reason alone this production, which runs through Jan. 16, is a startling and shaming presence in these United States, where the only work of theater regularly making headlines is a delay-plagued $65 million musical about a comic-book character. But ''Being Harold Pinter'' (which is performed in Russian with supertitles) isn't just admirable, it has virtues beyond its relevance and bravery.
While this theatrical collage, adapted and directed by Vladimir Shcherban, uses Pinter's writings to address abuses of power in Belarus, it never twists or distorts its source material to do so. On the contrary, ''Being Harold Pinter'' sheds revelatory light on works often regarded as shadowy to the point of opacity. And it finds a compelling continuity in dramas as far apart in time (and seemingly sensibility) as ''The Homecoming'' (1964) and ''Ashes to Ashes'' (1996). You start to realize the extent to which the domestic violence in Pinter's early works was a prophecy of the more explicit political violence in the later plays. And it becomes clearer than ever that the primal impulse to wield power, and its most savage manifestations, was always Pinter's subject.
This atavistic force is portrayed with great theatrical wit, stylishness and economy. The show's design is strategically stark, rendered exclusively in black, white and red. Four chairs form a semicircle around a cane, planted center-stage. That cane will be used as an instrument of menace and of outright torture before the evening ends. But its first incarnation is benign, when a slightly stooped man picks it up as a walking stick.
This, it turns out, is an actor portraying Pinter, who recounts a spill he took when his cane slipped on a pavement, shortly before he learned he had been awarded the Nobel Prize. The actor, who like everyone in the ensemble is wearing a black suit and a white shirt, falls to the ground and red paint is sprayed onto his forehead. The image shocks, and it is a perfect prologue to the less involuntary acts of bloodletting to come.
Much of what is said here comes from Pinter's Nobel Prize acceptance speech, one of his clearest declarations about how he works. At first he speaks of the ambiguity of characters who come to him unbidden, gradually defining themselves into being. The examples Pinter cites in his speech, from plays like ''The Homecoming'' and ''Old Times,'' are given fuller life by the seven-member company, who sometimes speak in chorus.
Several forms of evolution are happening at once. There is, for starters, Pinter's description of his increasingly direct political engagement as a dramatist. But paralleling this account is the sense of the Belarus troupe itself coming into being, finding Pinter's voice with ever-greater visceral immediacy. A scene in which the ensemble members writhe beneath a sheet of transparent plastic becomes a shivery metaphor for the layers of creation and interpretation that go into any work of theater.
But there is also a feeling of the implicit current of menace, for which Pinter became a byword, assuming more literal forms. The violence in an early play like ''The Homecoming'' is rendered with fuller physicality than in more conventional interpretations. In this context there's an inevitability to the crescendo of later scenes of institutional torture and humiliation in plays like ''One for the Road,'' ''Mountain Language'' and ''The New World Order.'' And then, suddenly, we are listening in the dark to voices speaking the words of Belarussian political prisoners, subjected to tortures not unlike those described in the plays.
The work given the most stage time is ''Ashes to Ashes,'' a two-character, 40-minute play that bewildered and exasperated audiences when it was first performed. Here it becomes so piercingly clear that you find yourself regarding it as a sort of Rosetta stone to Pinter's body of work.
''Ashes to Ashes'' is a dialogue between a baffled, jealous man and a woman with a haunted memory of acts of inhumanity she could not possibly have experienced firsthand. It suggests that we have reached a point in civilization where, on some intuitive level, we are contaminated by the force of violent oppression even in far-off places, that our unconscious mind absorbs them against our will. And it could be argued that this instinct informs every one of Pinter's plays.
Pinter is known for his understatement, and there is little that's understated about ''Being Harold Pinter.'' Such overemphasis slightly cripples some sequences, including one that underscores the ecclesiastical element in ''One for the Road.'' But the fierceness, sorrow and theatrical electricity that crackle throughout this extraordinary production are pure Pinter. Early in the show Pinter is heard speaking of his own imminent death. ''Being Harold Pinter'' suggests he never died at all.
BEING HAROLD PINTER
Adapted and directed by Vladimir Shcherban, based on texts written by Harold Pinter and letters of Belarussian political prisoners; produced by Natalia Kolyada and Nikolai Khalezin; stage managers, Aliaksei Shyrnevich, Laur Biarzhanin and Artsem Zhaliazniak. A Belarus Free Theater production, presented by La MaMa, the Public Theater and the Under the Radar Festival. At La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village; (212) 475-7710; lamama.org. Through Jan. 16. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes.
WITH: Nikolai Khalezin, Pavel Haranidski, Yana Rusakevich, Aleh Sidorchyk, Irene Iarochevitch, Dzianis Tarasenka and Maryna Yurevich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Belarus Free Theater in ''Being Harold Pinter'' at La MaMa, part of the Under the Radar Festival.
 Aleh Sidorchyk, seated, and Irene Iarochevitch. The show's design is strategically stark, rendered in black, white and red. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); THEATER (58%); POLICE FORCES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) BELARUS (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

TITLE: Being Harold Pinter (Play)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



175 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Christie Outlines a Plan To Pay for Transit Work

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey laid out a plan on Thursday to pay for five years of work on the state's roads, rails and bridges by borrowing $4.4 billion and asking the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to cover the cost of four projects in the northeastern part of the state.
The governor's request would have to be approved by the board of the Port Authority, whose officials declined to comment. 
It would be highly unusual for the Port Authority, which operates the region's major airports as well as some of its ports, bridges and tunnels, to spend money on outside projects.
But the Port Authority board is jointly controlled by Mr. Christie and New York's governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, and both states are facing immense budget challenges.
Rather than oppose Mr. Christie, Mr. Cuomo could seek a similar amount from the Port Authority for transportation projects in New York, according to advocates of mass transit. If he does, the additional spending could spur an increase in the tolls and fares the Port Authority collects.
Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, declined to comment on the specifics of Mr. Christie's request but said, ''We will work with the Port Authority and with New Jersey to ensure that the transportation system's critical role in the regional economy remains strong.''
Mr. Christie's plan came more than two months after he had scrapped a commuter rail tunnel under the Hudson River, saying that New Jersey could not afford it with its main fund for highway repairs about to run dry. The Port Authority and the federal government had each committed to provide $3 billion toward the tunnel.
The tunnel's supporters had argued that it would alleviate congestion for New Jersey residents who travel daily across the river to work and would stimulate growth of the regional economy. Now, Mr. Christie is instead asking the Port Authority to spend $1.8 billion to build and repair infrastructure that does not span the border between the states, including the Pulaski Skyway, which connects Newark to Jersey City.
The tunnel ''didn't happen, and the money is there to be utilized,'' Mr. Christie said. ''It should be utilized for transportation projects to improve this state.''
Mr. Christie, a Republican, said his plan was more ''fiscally responsible'' than those of his predecessors because it would rely less on borrowing, and more of the $1.6 billion in annual spending would come from cash on hand. The principal and interest on the $4.4 billion in borrowing would be paid off in level payments over 30 years, he said.
''So no big balloon at the end,'' Mr. Christie said. ''No big payments that someone's going to have to swallow 30 years from now.''
The plan would divert some money collected as tolls by the New Jersey Turnpike Authority into the fund for transportation improvements. Over the five years, the amount of annual spending not derived from borrowing would rise from $75 million in 2012 to more than $600 million in 2016, Mr. Christie said.
The governor said that $672 million a year would go toward New Jersey Transit, which operates the state's trains and buses, and an additional $200 million would be spent annually on local projects.
Democratic elected officials and some mass transit advocates criticized the plan as being vague and as lacking any suggestion of an alternative to the tunnel as an aid to commuters who cross the Hudson River every day.
Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, said, ''The plan is more proof that the governor killed the critically needed new tunnel to Manhattan so he could use its funding as part of a fix for his political problems. During Governor Christie's campaign for office, he said borrowing to finance the Transportation Trust Fund is unconscionable. Why is it now acceptable?''
Kate Slevin, the executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, said the financial details of the plan were ''murky to the point of being opaque.'' She said she did not understand where Mr. Christie would find $600 million in the general fund when he has repeatedly told New Jersey residents that their state does not have any money.
Ms. Slevin said she would prefer to see Mr. Christie raise the state's gas tax to pay for road work. She said her organization, which advocates for mass transit, had asked Mr. Cuomo to redirect the money that the Port Authority had planned to spend on the rail tunnel toward other projects that would help trans-Hudson commuters, like improvements to the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Midtown Manhattan.
Along with the Pulaski Skyway, Mr. Christie also wanted the Port Authority to pay for improvements to roads and bridges leading to the Holland Tunnel and the construction of a truck route in Jersey City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie, with Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno, on Thursday described his plan to pay for five years of work on state projects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (64%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



176 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 586 words

PERSON: Frank Bonilla 

HEADLINE: Frank Bonilla, 85, Founder Of Puerto Rican Study Center

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Frank Bonilla, an academic who grew up in two of New York's poorest neighborhoods, faced segregation in the Midwest and went on to create one of the nation's first college-level Puerto Rican studies programs and its first consortium for Latino studies, died on Dec. 28 in Escondido, Calif. He was 85.
His daughter Natasha Bonilla Martinez confirmed his death. 
For 20 years, starting in 1973, Dr. Bonilla was the director of the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College in New York. Already a renowned Latin American studies scholar, he had joined with other professors, students and community activists in pressing the City University of New York to open the center.
Under Dr. Bonilla's leadership, the program integrated various strands of Puerto Rican studies -- history, politics, economics and cultural development -- with the aim of exposing the forces behind ethnic and racial prejudice. The center, which studied the colonial relationship between Puerto Rico and the mainland and analyzed the extensive post-World War II migration from the island, houses one of the nation's largest archives on the Puerto Rican experience.
One of Dr. Bonilla's most influential projects was the Inter-University Program for Latino Research, which he co-founded in 1986. It began as a national consortium of eight university-based research centers and grew to include more than 20 universities that cooperate in interdisciplinary research. Among other studies, the program has analyzed the impact of global, national and regional economic forces on the earnings of Latinos in the United States.
''Dr. Bonilla was this high-powered intellectual taking the lead in bringing together key institutions,'' said Felix Matos Rodriguez, the president of Hostos Community College in the Bronx and a former director of the Puerto Rican research center. ''Nobody had the combination of profound credibility and the trust of academicians, elected officials and community leaders in the trenches to research problems like persistent poverty, lack of access to education, segmented labor markets and the difficulties for immigrants facing entry into institutions in the U.S.''
Born in Manhattan on Feb. 3, 1925, Frank Bonilla was one of three children of Francisco and Maria Bonilla, who had moved from Puerto Rico. He grew up in East Harlem and the South Bronx, but for several years lived with family friends in Tennessee and Illinois, where he came face to face with segregation: he was regularly told to sit in the back of the bus.
After graduating from high school, Dr. Bonilla served in the Army during World War II. He graduated from City College in 1949 and earned a master's degree in sociology from New York University in 1954 and a doctorate in sociology from Harvard in 1959.
Dr. Bonilla began his academic career in 1960 as a member of the American Universities Field Service, doing research in South America. In a 1962 report, ''Rural Reform in Brazil,'' he found that 75 percent of the farmland was owned by 8 percent of the farmers, and that two-thirds of the rural population was illiterate and therefore could not vote.
He went on to teach political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1963 to 1969, and at Stanford from 1969 to 1972. He then returned to New York to begin work on creating the Center for Puerto Rican Studies.
Besides his daughter Natasha, Dr. Bonilla is survived by another daughter, Sandra Bailey; a son, Francisco; a sister, Esther Miller; five grandchildren; and one great-grandson.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Bonilla (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUNTER COLLEGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); IMMIGRATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



177 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: 2 Environment Rules Halted in New Mexico

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Acting on a campaign promise, New Mexico's new Republican governor, Susana Martinez, has scuttled a state regulation requiring annual 3 percent cuts in greenhouse gas emissions.
A second environmental rule intended to control the discharge of waste from dairies in southern New Mexico was also dropped before publication. A different state rule that caps greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources like power plants remains in effect for the time being. 
During her campaign, Governor Martinez described the regulation of heat-trapping emissions as burdensome for industry and harmful to the state's economy. Her swift action upon taking office comes as the newly elected governors of two other southwestern states, Arizona and California, are setting a different tone, firmly advocating greater reliance on clean energy.
Governor Martinez, who received hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from oil and gas interests, has also said that she does not believe that science has clearly established a link between climate change and human activity.
As if to emphasize that point, on Thursday she appointed the geologist and former astronaut Harrison Schmitt, another skeptic, as secretary of the state's Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department.
The measure on cutting emissions by 3 percent was struck on Tuesday, when the governor's office instructed a senior official at the state's records center not to publish it in the next state register, to be issued on Jan. 14.
Because state regulations become final on publication, that rule, which was adopted in December by the state's Environmental Improvement Board, now appears to have no force. Bruce Frederick, a lawyer for the New Mexico Environmental Law Center, called Governor Martinez's action ''underhanded'' and ''illegal,'' adding: ''It's beyond the power of the governor. What she's trying to do is change the result in a case after the judgment has been rendered.''
Before scuttling the rule, the governor's office sent e-mails to members of the Environmental Improvement Board informing them that they had been dismissed. ''Unfortunately, the majority of E.I.B. members have made it clear that they are more interested in advancing political ideology than implementing common-sense policies that balance economic growth with responsible stewardship,'' Governor Martinez said in a press release announcing the dismissals.
In an interview, Gay Dillingham, who had been the board's chairwoman, said that she would have preferred that the federal government acted to address climate change across the board in place of state regulators. In the absence of firm steps, she said, the board felt it had to act.
On Election Day, the board voted 4 to 3 to establish an emissions cap on stationary sources like power plants and a system permitting polluters to trade emission allowances that would take effect in 2012.
''I think we designed a very good regulation,'' Ms. Dillingham said. ''Rate payers are not going to suffer; nobody's going to suffer.''
Staff members in the state Environmental Department were instructed to refer calls to the governor's press secretary, Scott Darnell. He did not answer repeated phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); LAWYERS (65%)

PERSON: SUSANA MARTINEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



178 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: MBIA Fights Banks For Its Life

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
MBIA, an insurance company whose very existence is imperiled because it underestimated the risks involved in mortgage lending, says the banks owe it billions because they lied about the mortgages backing securities that MBIA insured. The insurer's financial statements show it is solvent in large part because that money will be coming in.
The banks disagree. Their financial statements reflect no such obligation.
Just who is right will be determined over time, by courts and by negotiations. It is unlikely that much more will be known before annual reports come out this spring, but pressure is building on both sides to provide more complete disclosure of possible outcomes, and of how they reached their conclusions. 
In the meantime, many of the same banks being sued by MBIA are trying to persuade a judge that the company is now and has been insolvent for a couple of years. That case was supposed to come to trial this month, but it has been delayed in part by the refusal of the New York State Insurance Department, MBIA's regulator, to let a judge see e-mails between department officials when the department was approving a plan that reorganized MBIA in ways that left some MBIA-insured policyholders -- notably banks -- less likely to be paid if there are defaults.
In the last couple of weeks, two seemingly contradictory verdicts were rendered on MBIA's health. First, Standard & Poor's downgraded MBIA's bond rating to the lower regions of junk, warning that the company's ''capital adequacy is very weak,'' although it did have enough assets to meet all claims for at least a few years. Then the stock leaped 35 percent over five trading days.
The apparent cause for the increase was the disclosure that three banks -- JPMorgan Chase, Barclays and Royal Bank of Canada -- had withdrawn from the suit challenging the insurance department approval of the MBIA reorganization. It seems unlikely that that in itself would be very important, since the other banks seem committed to pursuing the case. The banks are not seeking damages, just a reversal of the reorganization, so the number of plaintiffs is important only in determining who shares the costs of the case.
But there also is speculation that MBIA and the banks that withdrew from the suit reached other deals that could bolster MBIA's position. Did the banks agree to pay some of the money MBIA says it is owed? If so, that could go a long way toward validating MBIA's decision to book $2.2 billion in payments from the banks, even though up until now it has reached only one settlement, and that for an amount so small that the company deemed it immaterial.
Alternatively, did one or more of the banks reach an agreement on policy commutations? In such a deal, the beneficiary of insurance -- in this case the banks as owners of securities insured by MBIA -- agree to accept a payment now in return for canceling the insurance. That could provide evidence that MBIA's eventual exposure will not be as great as S.& P. feared when it cut the bond rating of MBIA Inc., the parent company, to B-minus.
The stock market reaction would seem to indicate that whatever happened may have been material, but neither the banks nor MBIA will say if any other agreements were reached, but MBIA disclosed this week that it had dropped a lawsuit claiming it was defrauded by Royal Bank. MBIA says it will have something to say on March 1, when it releases its annual financial statements.
All of this stems from the run-up to the financial crisis, when no one took steps that could have halted irresponsible lending before it rose to crisis proportions. Instead, everyone involved thought it profitable to assume that all was well and to book immediate profits. The banks making the bad loans sold them off in securitizations. The rating agencies gave AAA ratings to securities without actually looking at the loans. MBIA and its competitors insured the securities without bothering to look at the loans. Now MBIA claims that the banks defrauded it because many of the loans did not meet the stated underwriting criteria. Institutional investors -- among them banks themselves -- bought the securities without doing much homework either.
One disclosure in MBIA's third-quarter filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission provides an insight into just how fictional those ratings were on the most exotic securities, what are known as multisector collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s. and C.D.O.-squareds. A C.D.O. is backed by securities that are backed by actual loans. A C.D.O.-squared is backed by securities that are backed by securities that are backed by actual loans.
MBIA said that 99 percent of such securities that it insured were rated AAA at issuance, with the remainder rated AA, also a very high rating. Now 1 percent are rated AAA and another 7 percent have lesser investment grade ratings. The remaining 92 percent have junk bond ratings. MBIA insured $18 billion in such securities, and now expects to pay $2.3 billion in claims, an amount it says ''could increase materially.''
The outlook seems to have been getting worse, but that has not been reflected in MBIA's balance sheet. In the third quarter of last year, the company concluded that it would have to pay out $107 million more than it had expected on insured securities backed by residential mortgages. But its expected loss on such securities fell. How could that be? It was simple: the company increased the amount it expected to get from the banks.
The differing views of what will be paid have raised eyebrows both at the S.E.C. and at the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which regulates auditors. The S.E.C., in letters to financial institutions, warned in October that an accounting rule ''requires you to establish accruals for litigation and other contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.'' Even if those criteria are not met, ''disclosure of the contingency is required to be made when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss has been incurred,'' the S.E.C. added.
Last month the accounting board followed up with a message to auditors warning that there was a ''risk of material misstatement'' in financial statements, in part because of litigation over mortgage securitizations.
Warnings to accountants cannot produce certainty when there is none, even if they can produce better disclosures regarding the range of possibilities. Much hinges on just how big the losses from bad mortgages are going to be. MBIA thinks S.& P.'s fears regarding its capital are based on assumptions that the losses could be much larger than they actually will be. Given how badly S.& P. once underestimated the risks, it is certainly possible that it is now overestimating them. But the opposite is also possible.
MBIA's hopes of going back into the business of writing new policies are based on its reorganization -- or transformation, as the company calls it -- which split its existing policies into two groups. One, covering municipal bonds issued by American state and local government agencies, still has the support of all of MBIA's assets. The other, covering foreign bonds and all structured finance transactions, is backed by only some of the assets.
The New York State Insurance Department concluded that both parts would be solvent, and authorized the complex arrangement. The fact the company had made a detailed proposal was not disclosed to the public until after it was approved in early 2009.
In reaching its decision, the department made clear that it was trying to keep muni bond insurance available. The case pending in New York State court challenges the department approval, claiming it was arbitrary and capricious.
The judge hearing the case ordered the department to turn over to a hearing officer all e-mail regarding the deal sent by five department officials to each other in the two months before the transaction was approved. The hearing officer is supposed to look for evidence of bias and, if he finds any, turn those e-mails over to the banks. This week the New York attorney general's office, which is representing the department, notified the court it wanted to appeal that order and keep the documents secret. It said such disclosures would be unprecedented and could harm the department's ability to have frank internal discussions in future cases.
Officials from the insurance department and the state attorney general's office refused to discuss the issue this week, but Robert J. Giuffra Jr., a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell who is representing the banks, was happy to do so. ''They seem to be fighting hammer and tong to avoid any public disclosure of the internal basis of their decision,'' he said, adding that the banks believed they could prove that MBIA was insolvent and that the regulator's ''so-called thorough review was window dressing.''
MBIA will not be able to write new muni bond insurance unless and until the reorganization survives legal challenge. The company had hoped to have a ruling by now, but further delays seem inevitable. This week the judge hearing the case, James A. Yates, announced he was leaving the bench to become counsel to the speaker of the New York Assembly, Sheldon Silver. It will take time for a new judge to understand the facts in the case. At MBIA, the tone is upbeat. Last spring, when the stock price was under pressure, the company resumed its stock repurchases, and through October had spent $28 million buying back shares. That is not a lot of money for a company with billions in assets, but MBIA is also a company whose most recent balance sheet would have shown no net worth had it not been able to book the expected payments from the banks and deferred tax assets whose value will be realized only after the company returns to profitability and is able to avoid paying taxes on those profits.
''Our continued solvency and payment of all claims and obligations since our transformation confirms that the New York State Insurance Department was correct in concluding that the transformation was fair and equitable to all policyholders and fully consistent with New York insurance law,'' Jay Brown, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert J. Giuffra Jr., who is representing the banks, said they believed they could prove that MBIA was insolvent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); DAMAGES (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); BONDS (70%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (81%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); RY (TSX) (81%); RY (SWX) (81%); RY (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



179 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Sales in December Were Weaker Than Expected

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Retailers did not get all that they wanted for Christmas, with December sales coming in lower than expected. But the holiday season altogether was still the strongest since 2006, and several categories including luxury continued their growth.
Sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.1 percent in December compared with the same month a year ago, according to a tally of 28 retailers by Thomson Reuters. That was below analysts' expectations of 3.4 percent, a prediction buoyed by reports of rising foot traffic, online spending and early holiday sales.
Though December was weaker than expected, the overall holiday season was relatively strong, analysts said, especially when November's 6 percent increase in sales is taken into account.
The two months together posted an increase of 4.4 percent, the biggest holiday-season increase since 2006, Thomson Reuters said. 
''A lot of companies and sectors out there did well, better than analysts expected,'' particularly the more exclusive retailers, said Chris Donnelly, a senior executive in the retail practice at Accenture, the consulting firm.
The mixed results among specialty retailers suggested that stores with tepid sales had problems with merchandise or operations, he said, since other stores were doing fine.
''You'll see folks with good numbers that are in the same malls as those companies and are catering to, relatively, the same customer base,'' Mr. Donnelly said. ''It's not that customers forsook the specialty apparel space -- they went in the same malls, they just happened to walk by some stores.''
Since specialty stores all designed and sold exclusive clothing, the problem was probably in the clothes, he said.
But ''for most customers out there, the fundamentals of the economic situation haven't changed substantially,'' Mr. Donnelly said. Customers might be saving a bit less or earning a bit more in the stock market, and small shifts in how consumers felt could push sales higher. ''Instead of spending $100, people spent $103,'' he said, referring to the December 3.1 percent increase. ''It doesn't take much.''
The International Council of Shopping Centers, which tracks sales at chain stores, said on Thursday that December sales rose 3.1 percent for stores open at least a year, compared to December 2009. For the November-December holiday period, same-store sales rose 3.8 percent, which was the biggest holiday increase since 2006.
While concerns were rampant about how the post-Christmas snowstorm on the East Coast would affect December results, only a handful of retailers cited that as a factor. BJ's Wholesale Club, for instance, said that comparable sales rose in every region except the New York City area, where results were hurt by the storm. On the other hand, J. C. Penney said its Manhattan store outperformed the company average for the month, and that the Northeast was one of the best-performing regions in December.
The day after Christmas tends to account for only 2 to 2.5 percent of sales for the month, making it one of the lower-ranked spending days in December, according to MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which estimates overall spending.
Luxury items continued to rise, even more so than analysts had expected, with the two higher-end stores reporting results -- Nordstrom and Saks Fifth Avenue -- beating estimates by the biggest amounts. At Saks, sales at stores open at least a year, a measure called same-store sales, rose 11.8 percent, beating estimates of 3.9 percent. And Nordstrom's rose 8.4 percent, versus estimates of 3.4 percent.
Other data showed strength in luxury. Even at a middle-market store like J. C. Penney, more expensive items like fine jewelry were among the top performers for the month. December jewelry sales rose 10.4 percent compared with the month a year ago, according to SpendingPulse. And luxury sales outside of jewelry rose 8.5 percent.
Some apparel stores were among the worst performers for December, missing estimates by big margins, including -- American Eagle Outfitters(down 11 percent), Aeropostale (down 5 percent) and Gap-owned stores (down 3 percent).
But that seemed to be more a store-specific problem than a mark of a troubled sector. Other apparel stores did well, like Abercrombie & Fitch, where sales rose 15 percent; Limited Brands, which owns Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works, up 5 percent; and stores aimed at teenagers, like the Buckle, which was up 6.1 percent.
Overall apparel sales rose 10.9 percent in December from a year earlier, according to SpendingPulse, which measures consumer spending. That was the biggest increase since March 2007, and the teen apparel category increased 12.2 percent.
For stores with wide arrays of merchandise, a good performance in apparel did not totally offset lackluster categories elsewhere, particularly in electronics. SpendingPulse said that the consumer electronics category was up just 1.5 percent from a year ago, one of the weaker results among the sectors it measures.
At Costco Wholesale, for instance, same-store sales rose 6 percent, just a bit below analyst expectations of 6.2 percent. There, the category that includes apparel, jewelry and housewares rose in the high single digits compared to a year ago, but electronics was weak, declining in the high single digits versus a year ago. Costco said that a big reason for that was declining television prices -- while the number of TVs sold rose, revenue from TVs dropped in stores open at least a year.
Targetsaw a similar pattern. It posted a same-store sales increase of 0.9 percent for the month, which was 3.1 percent lower than what analysts had predicted and ''below expectations,'' Target said in a press release. Though apparel was up for the month, electronics and some other categories decreased compared to a year ago.
''Target saw a weakness in consumer electronics, and we saw that coming from a number of different chains, including, of course, Best Buy,'' said Michael B. Koskuba, a senior portfolio manager at Victory Capital Management, which owns shares in Target, referring to Best Buy's lackluster earnings report from last month. ''It's difficult to get that incremental buyer to buy another flat-screen television, and I also think consumers in general have been looking for greater bargains. The prices of consumer electronics should continue to come down, so maybe they're waiting.''
Measuring double-digit increases over last December in categories like jewelry, apparel and e-commerce (up 17.6 percent, the highest increase since December 2007), SpendingPulse had a brighter take on the holiday season than the Thomson Reuters numbers. Categories including apparel, auto parts and services, e-commerce and grocery are now above 2007 levels in terms of dollars spent (though electronics, jewelry, luxury and home furnishings still lag behind), said Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis at SpendingPulse.
''This is the longest sustained period of improvement, from a consumer-spending standpoint, that we've seen since the recession,'' Mr. McNamara said. ''It's really strong growth across a number of retail categories.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers and others using the subway in New York. The overall holiday season was the strongest for retailers since 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Healthy Holiday Finish for Shoppers: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the five weeks that ended Jan. 1, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: company reports
 Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (79%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (58%); ACCENTURE PLC (55%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



180 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: A Marriage of Design, Aged in the Wood

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
Yankee ingenuity, visionary imagination and the particular aesthetic of the Arts and Crafts movement are a neat fit in ''The Artistic Furniture of Charles Rohlfs,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, a small show tucked in among the period rooms in the American Wing.
The exhibition is the first at a major museum to focus on Rohlfs (1853-1936), an actor turned stovemaker turned furniture designer who worked in Buffalo during the first years of the 20th century. The show does much to disentangle Rohlfs from Gustav Stickley and other American Arts and Crafts contemporaries, though it leaves you unsure exactly where he fits into the history of decorative arts. 
Born in Brooklyn and educated at Cooper Union, Rohlfs made his living as a foundry patternmaker, a designer of cast-iron stoves and (less successfully) a Shakespearean actor before getting into cabinetry. He came to it, as many designers do, because he couldn't find what he was looking for in the market. ''I wanted a certain kind of furniture and had seen nothing that particularly appealed to me,'' he later explained.
His designs mix and match various styles of the day, with Asian-influenced fretwork, carved ornamentation with Art Nouveau flourishes, and the Medieval-inspired lines of much Arts and Crafts furniture. They sometimes resemble housewares from the Stickley workshop, though Rohlfs did not aspire to Stickley's scale of production or share his belief in the socially redemptive power of well-made furniture.
As constructions Rohlfs's pieces reflect his experience as a patternmaker and stove designer. His creations, no matter how beautifully ornamented, are essentially interlocking panels -- stiff and boxy. (Several desks look suspiciously stovelike.) His workshop was in business for roughly a decade. And though he evolved from a hobbyist into a critically acclaimed professional, he never found many buyers for his unusual pieces. Many of the 50 objects in the Met's show once decorated the home Rohlfs shared with his wife, the successful mystery writer Anna Katharine Green, and their two children.
Green is an interesting and imposing figure. She was the couple's main breadwinner, thanks to the royalties from her extremely popular novels, and also collaborated with her husband on many of his designs. In this show and the accompanying book the Rohlfses come to look like an earlier version of the Bauhaus power couple Josef and Anni Albers.
One of the most persuasive examples of the Rohlfses' partnership is a striking desk chair from 1898-99. The intricate, asymmetrical carvings on its high, narrow back are based on the cellular structure of oak as seen under a microscope. They combine Rohlfs's love of naturally occurring patterns with Green's interest in forensic science. (Crime-scene evidence often figured in her novels.)
Rohlfs worked almost exclusively in oak, which is harder to carve than mahogany but has a more visible grain. This grain, enhanced by a matte-brown stain, was the main source of inspiration for the squiggly motifs that punctuate his furniture. In a quotation printed on the museum wall, he rhapsodizes, ''See in the marking of the natural wood the story of storm and calm, of zephyr and breeze, and conclude that there in the wood is the record of their music.''
Though there's material poetry in Rohlfs's carved surfaces, the imagery in his fretwork is often appropriated from other cultures. He attempted fashionable Chinoiserie in the circular panels on the sides of a rocking chair, while looking to Middle Eastern inlaid tables as the source for the pierced panels of an octagonal cabinet.
Objects like these impressed critics at the ''Art and Crafts Exhibition'' in 1900 at the National Arts Club in New York and the International Exposition of Decorative Modern Art in Turin, Italy, in 1902 but did not attract large numbers of clients to the workshop.
It wasn't for lack of trying. The show includes some of Rohlfs's advertising pamphlets, which cleverly peddle items like a man's chair. (''The cigars are on me if this is not comfort.'') Also here is the ''Graceful Writing Set'' he sold through Marshall Field's department store in Chicago, a rotating desk and high-backed chair intended perhaps for the home offices of 19th-century aesthetes like Oscar Wilde.
But the economy was in decline, and the Panic of 1907 was just around the corner. Accessories, like candleholders, sold more briskly than large pieces of furniture. These included Rohlfs's '' 'Chinese' Candle Stand,'' adjustable in height and with a built-in snuffer, and a pair of delicate oak-and-copper ''Sylph Stands.''
As a couple of photographs reveal, Rohlfs lived among his own designs in meticulously coordinated (and, it must be said, not very comfortable-looking) interiors. In keeping with the Aesthetic Movement, everything -- from the hanging shelves to the salad servers -- was an expression of individual taste.
The book offers a better look at the furniture in situ than does the Met's exhibition, which tends to treat the objects individually rather than as elements in a room. (Its author is Joseph Cunningham of the American Decorative Art 1900 Foundation, who also organized the show with help from the Chipstone Foundation, the Milwaukee Art Museum and the Met's American decorative arts curator, Alice Cooney Frelinghuysen).
Only at the end of the exhibition do the curators give us a sense of how Rohlfs's designs looked in his home and in the homes and clubhouses of his (few) customers. A large desk made for the department-store founder Marshall Field is shown next to a photograph of the baking-soda magnate William Ziegler's retreat in the Adirondacks; the aesthetic is best described as ''corporate rustic.''
Also here is an exquisite lamp Rohlfs designed in memory of his son Sterling, who was killed in a plane crash. It has a base of carved pine trees and a shade of kappa shells, and though it commemorates a death, it is full of conviction about how one ought to live.
''The Artistic Furniture of Charles Rohlfs'' continues through Jan. 23 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Settee for the Rohlfs Home,'' about 1888, by Charles Rohlfs and Anna Katharine Green. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FOUNDRY PATTERN & CORE MFG (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (85%); MARRIAGE (85%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); WRITERS (61%); EVIDENCE (60%); FORENSICS (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



181 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM SEOUL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Lessons Learned, South Korea Makes Quick Economic Recovery

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER; Su-Hyun Lee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- When the global financial crisis struck more than two years ago, customers disappeared from the Dongdaemun market, a cramped maze of clothing and fabric shops in the shadow of a medieval city gate. But in contrast to the economic conditions in the United States and Europe, business quickly rebounded here and in the rest of this vibrant, technology-driven nation, a resilience that many South Koreans attribute to their bitter experience of having survived an even worse downturn, the currency crisis of 1997.
''This time didn't feel so much like a real crisis,'' Kim Soon-nam, 70, said as she surveyed customers from her small stall, which is filled with running pants and brightly colored dress shirts. ''It was hard back then, but that hardship made me stronger.''
The Asian currency crisis is known popularly here as the I.M.F. crisis because the danger of economic collapse forced South Korea to swallow a tough bailout package from the International Monetary Fund that closed big banks and industrial companies, led legions of workers to be laid off and prompted citizens to donate their gold to the national treasury. It was a collective trauma that is remembered here on the scale of the Great Depression in the United States. 
But South Korea was able to bounce back and resume the soaring growth rates that have enabled its gross domestic product to double since 1998, catapulting South Korea into the ranks of the world's wealthiest nations. The latest surge began within months of the financial panic of late 2008 and has continued in every quarter since, according to the Bank of Korea, with the South Korean economy now ranking as the 15th largest in the word. The nation's capacity to emerge from not one but two debilitating financial crises without prolonged stagnation is drawing attention in a world that suddenly needs economic role models.
''Korea has many differences with the United States, but they certainly did financial reform right,'' said Barry Eichengreen, a professor of economic history at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Korea under the I.M.F. did radical surgery.''
Economists are quick to caution against making sweeping comparisons between South Korea and the United States. In the late 1990s, South Korea suffered from a ''crony capitalism'' in which banks lent too freely to corporate customers, while the United States' financial troubles are rooted in excessive borrowing by individuals. South Korea remains a developing, manufacturing-led nation that is still catching up to the postindustrial economy of the United States.
The dollar's status as the world's reserve currency also gives American policymakers options that were not available in 1997 to South Korean officials, whose most immediate problem was a collapse in the value of their currency, the won.
Still, economists say, South Korea's hard-landing approach can offer pointers to the United States, especially at a time when Republicans have taken over the House of Representatives with vows of ''restoring fiscal sanity.'' One such lesson, they say, is to avoid relying too much on stimulus spending and to make painful structural changes so that the economy can find its natural bottom and resume its growth. Another is to make the changes quickly and decisively to restore the public's faith.
''Sooner or later, the U.S. must make some cruel choices,'' said Chung Duck-koo, who was a Finance Ministry official during the 1997 crisis and is now a professor at Korea University. ''Making them sooner is the best way to restore confidence.''
In 1997, the Korean economy almost collapsed under the weight of profligate corporate borrowing and a growing trade deficit and was forced to accept a $60 billion bailout from the I.M.F. The package pushed South Korea to shut down excess production capacity, causing the collapse of 14 of the nation's large industrial conglomerates, like the once formidable Daewoo group. The survivors, like Samsung Electronics, emerged with less debt and healthier balance sheets.
Mr. Eichengreen and other experts said the most noteworthy changes came in South Korea's then-crippled banking industry. The government closed or restructured 12 of the 32 largest banks and spent about $60 billion to write off bad loans and replenish the cash reserves of the remaining banks. The Korea Asset Management Corporation, a public fund, bought about two-thirds of the problem loans on the banks' books, freeing up capital to restart a virtuous cycle of lending.
By contrast, analysts fault Washington for keeping many struggling banks afloat after the subprime-lending fiasco and for failing to clean up enough of the mortgage-related securities that are clogging the American financial system.
''Korea did a better job of moving quickly to clean up its banking system once and for all,'' said Naoko Nemoto, a banking analyst in Tokyo for Standard and Poor's. Ms. Nemoto, who wrote a book on the South Korean reforms, compared the South Korean response with that of her native Japan, where officials' reluctance to close ''zombie'' corporate borrowers contributed to the country's economic stagnation since a financial crisis in the early 1990s.
Ms. Nemoto and other analysts say that the United States should resist the temptation to mimic Japan's reliance on quick fixes. South Korea's central bank was forced to raise interest rates during the 1997 crisis to shore up its currency and restore investors' confidence.
The higher rates were unpopular because they helped cause the hard landing that forced 1.4 million Koreans, about 7 percent of the work force, out of their jobs. But South Korea's ability to endure such hardships and bounce back points to another lesson: the need for a sense of shared national purpose and willingness to sacrifice. South Koreans rallied to help their nation, spending less, saving more and learning to be more competitive.
''Nobody was buying back then, so I slept less, worked harder,'' said Ms. Kim, the stall owner in the Dongdaemun market. ''And I saved and saved and saved.''
Economists say the United States needs a similar national consensus to reduce borrowing and to invest more in education and other ventures that will raise productivity, which they say is the only way to regain a sustainable growth rate. Some worry that the United States may have missed its best chance, now that the worst of the public's crisis-inspired worries have subsided.
''Our commitment to education and our diligence were what helped Korea in 1997,'' said Kang Man-soo, who served as vice minister of the Finance Ministry during the 1997 crisis. ''The U.S. needs to get back to basics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The scene at a Seoul bank on Monday reflected the economic health of South Korea, which has recovered from the downturn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEON HEON-KYUN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); HISTORY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MARKETING SURVEYS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



182 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Recession Threatens Scholarships in Georgia

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
ATHENS, Ga. -- Students here at the University of Georgia have a name for some of the fancy cars parked in the lots around campus. They call them Hopemobiles. But there may soon be fewer of them.
The cars are gifts from parents who find themselves with extra cash because their children decided to take advantage of a cherished state perk -- the Hope scholarship. The largest merit-based college scholarship program in the United States it offers any Georgia high school student with a B-average four years of free college tuition.
But the Hope scholarship program is about to be cut by a new governor and Legislature facing staggering financial troubles.
The lingering effects of the recession and the end of federal stimulus funds have sunk many states into a fiscal quagmire. The seriousness of the problem, and a growing concern over how much worse it might become, have many states struggling to find ways to trim services or raise revenues. 
In Georgia, that means taking a slice out of the Hope scholarship.
When it was begun in 1993, the program was covered easily by Georgia's state lottery. Politicians enjoyed how happy it made middle-class constituents. Educators praised the way it improved SAT scores and lifted Georgia from the backwaters of higher education.
It was considered so innovative that 15 states copied it. And while the lottery-based scholarship programs in states like Tennessee are dipping into reserves to cover the costs, none have fiscal woes as big as Georgia's.
Part of it is the program's popularity. A majority of freshmen in Georgia have grades good enough to qualify for Hope, which covers tuition, some books and fees -- but not housing costs -- at any Georgia university or technical school.
And even though as many as two-thirds of Hope students let their college grades slip so much that they no longer qualify -- ''I've lost Hope,'' they joke when it happens -- Georgia still gives away more financial aid per student than any other state. Since the program started, 1.3 million Georgia students have received a total of $5.6 billion in educational support. The program offers as much as $6,000 a year for some students.
But the program has become so popular it cannot sustain itself. Lottery sales, which by law can pay for only the Hope scholarship and a free prekindergarten program, will be short $243 million this fiscal year and as much as $317 million the next, according to state budget estimates.
Last year, lawmakers had to pull millions of dollars from the state's reserve fund just to cover the cost. But this year, there is nowhere to turn.
Like the other states that are facing the worst fiscal crisis in recent memory, Georgia heads into its legislative session next week staring at a budget deficit of as much as $2 billion. And that is after billions of dollars in cuts over the past two years that have reduced the state's spending power to $17.9 billion for fiscal year 2011.
But trim the program that for years has paid to educate the children of the most reliable voters in the state?
''Undoubtedly, this is, in every sense of the word, a very strongly ingrained entitlement for a certain segment of voters, and politicians are indeed reluctant to touch it,'' said Christopher Cornwell, a professor of economics at the University of Georgia, who has studied the effect of the Hope scholarship on the state, including an analysis of the positive impact the scholarship has had on car sales.
Politicians are hoping for mercy as they begin this month to make decisions that will surely have the parents of college-bound students scrambling to find new ways to pay for tuition.
''We trust and we hope the people in the state of Georgia understand the position we're in,'' said State Representative Len Walker, a Republican who leads the House Higher Education Committee.
They do and they don't.
Cathy Ottley, a part-time office manager, and her husband, a management consultant, are raising three children in Marietta, north of Atlanta. One is a sophomore at the University of Georgia, courtesy of the Hope scholarship. A daughter who is a high school senior had her heart set on the University of North Carolina but has come to see an in-state college as the practical way to go. And then there is the youngest, a high school freshman with a promising future in athletics. Without the scholarship, Ms. Ottley said, college for her children would be a stretch at best.
''This just gives you options,'' she said. ''I don't have peace about kids just starting out at 22 with $200,000 in debt for their education.''
Mr. Walker said no one was talking about cutting the program completely.
''It appears at this point that it will not be a 100 percent scholarship. It might be 90 percent. It might 80 percent,'' he said. But the cost of books and fees will most certainly be eliminated.
Other options include raising the required grade-point average, which would cut the number of students who qualify, or giving more to exceptional students and less to merely above-average performers.
''That would make it so much harder,'' said Myisha Price, a junior at Clayton State University in Atlanta, who relies on the scholarship and also works. ''I don't go to clubs. I don't drink. I don't smoke and I don't party and it's already hard.''
Another idea is to work economic need into the equation, though that idea does not have much support, both lawmakers and educators said.
The most likely plan, and one that Governor-elect Nathan Deal, a Republican, has indicated he supports, would be to create a flat rate for each student, regardless of the tuition bill.
At a cafeteria table here this week, a group of Hope recipients defended the program and debated a range of ideas to keep Hope alive, including raising taxes.
Allie McCullen, who is majoring in English and women's studies, is in her fourth year at Georgia. She is the only child of a single mother who in 2006 lost her job in the mortgage industry. Ms. McCullen pieces together her living expenses and extra book costs through a small grant and two jobs.
''If I didn't have it, I might not be able to attend at all,'' she said. ''Or I would just be in such severe debt that I might not ever be able to get out of it.''
If the scholarship ends or gets cut drastically, it could send the most promising students out of state and even end the era of new cars for incoming freshman.
Lauren Rice drives a Hopemobile (though, she concedes, it is only a Honda Civic). Her parents told her she could go to college anywhere. She was considering Auburn in Alabama. But her parents offered her what she called ''the car incentive.'' That, plus the daunting out-of-state tuition helped her select the University of Georgia.
But without Hope, Ms. Rice's decision might have been different.
''If you're going to have a bill in-state anyway,'' she said, ''then what does it matter?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robbie Ottley, left, Katie Black and Josh Delaney, Hope scholarship students at the University of Georgia, discussed the program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOTTERIES (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MERIT PAY (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



183 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Diversify, Investors Bet on Catastrophe Bonds

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Investors, still reeling from one disaster, are betting on the likelihood of another.
Amid the volatility in the markets, wealthy individuals and big institutions are flocking to hedge funds that buy so-called catastrophe bonds and other investments tied to the probability of Gulf Coast hurricanes, Japanese earthquakes, large snowfalls in Canada and other natural disasters.
It is a diversification play, as investors continue to look for assets that do not move in tandem with equities and traditional fixed-income products. 
A Credit Suisse hedge fund that specializes in insurance-linked securities has doubled, to more than $3 billion, since the middle of 2009. Early last year, the New Zealand Superannuation Fund, which manages and invests money for the country's retirees, pledged $250 million to a hedge fund focused on catastrophe bonds and the like. And a new $80 million fund, started by an alumnus of the hedge fund Citadel, just listed on the London Stock Exchange.
''Any other hedge fund might have had problems raising money after the Lehman collapse, but these guys have been going gangbusters,'' said Judy Klugman, managing director at Swiss Re Capital Markets, the world's largest underwriter of catastrophe bonds.
The market for catastrophe bonds, or cat bonds, first emerged in the 1990s, in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew. Insurers, hurting from $17 billion in losses, began tapping into the capital markets as an alternative to traditional reinsurance.
Here is how the typical deal works: An insurer will issue a bond whose returns are tied to the likelihood of one or more natural disasters over a certain period of time, say a major hurricane's hitting Florida in the next three years. If the event does not happen, investors earn a yield on the bond, from 2 to 14 percent. But the principal can be wiped out if a devastating storm does strike.
Last year, companies issued more than $5 billion in catastrophe bonds, bringing the total amount outstanding to nearly $14 billion, according to data from Credit Suisse and Swiss Re.
Hedge funds even step directly into the role of insurer, writing their own contracts instead of buying the securitized bonds. The volume of such deals now amounts to roughly $300 billion, including coverage for things as varied as crop damage and terrorist attacks.
''We've graduated from the science project mode of the early 2000s to being an actual market,'' said Frank Majors, a founder of Nephila Capital, a hedge fund that manages about $3 billion of insurance-related investments. ''It's still not a huge market, but it's a market where people are there because there is a meaningful value proposition.''
The securities suffered a serious blow during the financial crisis. After the collapse of Lehman Brothers, which served as a trading partner on four major deals, buyers started taking a closer look at the underlying collateral on the catastrophe bonds. Many found it lacking.
The dearth of leverage to amplify gains further spooked big players, including large, diversified hedge funds. In 2010, so-called multistrategy funds made up just 2 percent of catastrophe bond buyers, down from 14 percent in 2007, according to data from Swiss Re.
''The big securities dealers are providing a lot more leverage in other areas than they are in catastrophe bonds,'' said Brett Houghton, managing partner at Fermat Capital, a roughly $2 billion hedge fund that focuses on insurance-related investments. ''I don't think it's as easy for those guys to make the 15 to 20 percent return targets they're trying to promise their investors without leverage.''
What is left now is mainly a small group of funds like Fermat that specialize in insurance-linked investments. It is a boom time for the group, which is benefiting from investors' push to find new ways to diversify their portfolios. The New Zealand fund cited such reasons for making its first foray into the catastrophe bond market, with a $250 million commitment to a hedge fund run by Elementum Advisors.
Catastrophe bonds and other insurance-related securities have no correlation to the broader markets. In 2008, the Swiss Re catastrophe bond index rose 2.3 percent, compared with a loss of 38 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The catastrophe bond index returned 10.5 percent from 2007 through 2010, compared with an 11 percent fall in the S.&P.
''The fact that we demonstrated positive returns has been very helpful in getting new funds into the space,'' said Paul Schultz, president of Aon Benfield's investment banking division, which packages and sells catastrophe bonds. ''We have more investors participating in this asset class than ever before. There's a growing following and growing level of interest.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An aerial view in September 2005 of the destruction in Empire, La., a week after Hurricane Katrina hit the region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LaFORET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WEATHER (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (74%); SECURITIZATION (72%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); SWISS RE CAPITAL MARKETS CORP (55%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



184 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Looking to Diversify, Investors Bet on Catastrophe Bonds

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Investors, still reeling from one disaster, are betting on the likelihood of another.
Amid the volatility in the markets, wealthy individuals and big institutions are flocking to hedge funds that buy so-called catastrophe bonds and other investments tied to the probability of Gulf Coast hurricanes, Japanese earthquakes, large snowfalls in Canada and other natural disasters.
It is a diversification play, as investors continue to look for assets that do not move in tandem with equities and traditional fixed-income products. 
A Credit Suisse hedge fund that specializes in insurance-linked securities has doubled, to more than $3 billion, since the middle of 2009. Early last year, the New Zealand Superannuation Fund, which manages and invests money for the country's retirees, pledged $250 million to a hedge fund focused on catastrophe bonds and the like. And a new $80 million fund, started by an alumnus of the hedge fund Citadel, just listed on the London Stock Exchange.
''Any other hedge fund might have had problems raising money after the Lehman collapse, but these guys have been going gangbusters,'' said Judy Klugman, managing director at Swiss Re Capital Markets, the world's largest underwriter of catastrophe bonds.
The market for catastrophe bonds, or cat bonds, first emerged in the 1990s, in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew. Insurers, hurting from $17 billion in losses, began tapping into the capital markets as an alternative to traditional reinsurance.
Here is how the typical deal works: An insurer will issue a bond whose returns are tied to the likelihood of one or more natural disasters over a certain period of time, say a major hurricane's hitting Florida in the next three years. If the event does not happen, investors earn a yield on the bond, from 2 to 14 percent. But the principal can be wiped out if a devastating storm does strike.
Last year, companies issued more than $5 billion in catastrophe bonds, bringing the total amount outstanding to nearly $14 billion, according to data from Credit Suisse and Swiss Re.
Hedge funds even step directly into the role of insurer, writing their own contracts instead of buying the securitized bonds. The volume of such deals now amounts to roughly $300 billion, including coverage for things as varied as crop damage and terrorist attacks.
''We've graduated from the science project mode of the early 2000s to being an actual market,'' said Frank Majors, a founder of Nephila Capital, a hedge fund that manages about $3 billion of insurance-related investments. ''It's still not a huge market, but it's a market where people are there because there is a meaningful value proposition.''
The securities suffered a serious blow during the financial crisis. After the collapse of Lehman Brothers, which served as a trading partner on four major deals, buyers started taking a closer look at the underlying collateral on the catastrophe bonds. Many found it lacking.
The dearth of leverage to amplify gains further spooked big players, including large, diversified hedge funds. In 2010, so-called multistrategy funds made up just 2 percent of catastrophe bond buyers, down from 14 percent in 2007, according to data from Swiss Re.
''The big securities dealers are providing a lot more leverage in other areas than they are in catastrophe bonds,'' said Brett Houghton, managing partner at Fermat Capital, a roughly $2 billion hedge fund that focuses on insurance-related investments. ''I don't think it's as easy for those guys to make the 15 to 20 percent return targets they're trying to promise their investors without leverage.''
What is left now is mainly a small group of funds like Fermat that specialize in insurance-linked investments. It is a boom time for the group, which is benefiting from investors' push to find new ways to diversify their portfolios. The New Zealand fund cited such reasons for making its first foray into the catastrophe bond market, with a $250 million commitment to a hedge fund run by Elementum Advisors.
Catastrophe bonds and other insurance-related securities have no correlation to the broader markets. In 2008, the Swiss Re catastrophe bond index rose 2.3 percent, compared with a loss of 38 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The catastrophe bond index returned 10.5 percent from 2007 through 2010, compared with an 11 percent fall in the S.& P.
''The fact that we demonstrated positive returns has been very helpful in getting new funds into the space,'' said Paul Schultz, president of Aon Benfield's investment banking division, which packages and sells catastrophe bonds. ''We have more investors participating in this asset class than ever before. There's a growing following and growing level of interest.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An aerial view in September 2005 of the destruction in Empire, La., a week after Hurricane Katrina hit the region. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LaFORET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WEATHER (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (74%); SECURITIZATION (72%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); SWISS RE CAPITAL MARKETS CORP (55%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



185 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Shortfall Gives Hope to Disability Rights Advocates

BYLINE: By EMILY RAMSHAW. 
eramshaw@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Disability rights advocates try year after year to persuade lawmakers to close Texas' state-supported living centers, the large, institutional-care settings that the United States Justice Department has monitored for dangerous conditions. Every time, their efforts have been rebuffed -- by the adamant parents who rely on the facilities to care for their loved ones and by the lawmakers who count on the centers as economic drivers in their districts.
This session, advocates say they have a big plus in their column: the state's giant budget crunch. They hope lawmakers, facing an estimated $15 billion to $28 billion shortfall, will have to shutter some of the centers, which cost Texas $500 million a year to operate. 
''Does this economic reality make it easier for legislators to do it? I sure hope so,'' said Amy Mizcles, governmental affairs director for The Arc of Texas, which wants people with disabilities to receive community-based care. ''We keep hearing this fiscal-responsibility mantra. We have a real opportunity to provide better quality care in a much less expensive setting.''
So far, there is little evidence that state officials will take this course. State Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan, the key Senate budget writer who has been most open to downsizing the state schools, declined to comment.
Meanwhile, the Department of Aging and Disability Services, which operates the centers, said it was prohibited by state law from closing any of the state-supported living centers without legislative direction.
''We can't,'' said Cecilia Fedorov, a spokeswoman for the department. ''But that doesn't mean the Legislature can't.''
Even with the budget shortfall, advocates for community-based care are not optimistic. Since state leaders ordered agencies to trim their budgets to help close the gap, the Department of Aging and Disability Services has recommended cutting new community-based care slots and slashing Medicaid reimbursement rates for workers at nursing homes, group homes and in-home facilities.
Meanwhile, money for the state-supported living centers has grown, a requirement of the state's five-year, $112 million settlement with the Justice Department over conditions inside them.
''I've heard that everything will be on the table,'' Ms. Mizcles said. ''But every bit of action that's been taken thus far is completely to the contrary.''
Parents who rely on the centers to care for their adult children say the influx of money is having an enormous positive impact. The settlement agreement ''has been a wonderful thing,'' said Nancy Ward, with the Parent Association for the Retarded of Texas. ''We need to give them a chance to keep on doing the improvements with the money they got.''
According to advocates for community care, however, the state-supported living centers do not make financial sense. A third of the disability department's budget for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities serves the 4,600 people living in 13 state-supported living centers -- a comparable amount finances more than 17,000 people receiving care at home or in small-group settings. The annual cost per resident in a state-supported living center is roughly $120,000, compared with nearly $50,000 in community-based care.
Parents of residents at state-supported living centers say that is an unfair comparison because the people currently remaining in the institutions have some of the most acute medical needs.
''There are people who cannot survive without being in the state school,'' Ms. Ward said.
But advocates for community care say many of these people can be cared for far more efficiently in less-restrictive settings.
In the wake of highly publicized abuse in Texas' institutions for the disabled -- from physical beatings and restraints to medical neglect -- state health officials have had to increase payments to the centers by thousands of dollars per patient annually, a cost that opponents argue comes at the expense of community-based care.
''There's a bell curve of people, from some who want to close them to other people who think we ought to do more of them,'' said State Senator Robert Deuell, Republican of Greenville. ''And they'll all use the current situation to promote their agenda.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tamika Mays, an employee of one of Texas' state-supported living centers for the disabled, with a resident of the facility. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD WISEMAN/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MEDICAID (79%); MENTAL RETARDATION (79%); MENTAL RETARDATION FACILITIES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); AGING (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); NURSING HOMES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



186 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: A Man With a Cape And a City to Salvage

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
The Gotham of Christopher Nolan's Batman movies (''The Dark Knight,'' ''Batman Begins'') is a bleak-looking place where the light is charcoal, and the mood is caught between 1970s Manhattan and Dante's ''Inferno.'' Crime rates are high; so too is the general misery index. A sense of grim deterioration is ever present.
Palm City, the fictional metropolis at the center of ''The Cape,'' is similarly blighted, but you would never know it from the panoramic shots supplied. The skies are sunny; the tall buildings gleam against the waterfront. There is a culture of food bloggers. You are in San Diego, you say to yourself, or Vancouver, or Orlando relocated to a coast. 
This unusual visual rendering of a city in crisis, one meant to suggest that terrible things still happen in prosperous environs, is one of the more distinctive elements of a series (beginning Sunday on NBC) that operates energetically within the conventions of the superhero story. The Cape is a guy named Vince Faraday (David Lyons) who is as morally unbending a cop as they come. Although framed for a spate of murders and thought dead, he is alive and costumed and trying to extinguish the malevolent forces bringing the city to further ruin.
The chief enemy in town is both a personified villain -- Peter Fleming, whose alter ego is the even more pernicious Chess -- and an idea: privatization. Fleming (portrayed by the wonderfully squirrely looking British actor James Frain) runs a dubious conglomerate known as the Ark Corporation, which has meted out private security in Iraq and Afghanistan to very unsettling results and now aspires to take over Palm City's Police Department and penal system. Should Fleming succeed in capitalizing on the corruption already fomented within the ranks of the city's law enforcement, the outcome will certainly not be good, and police benevolent association dances will be hard to come by.
Philosophically, the superhero narrative belongs to the thinking of the right: lone guns combating evil beyond the purview of inefficient bureaucracies. But ''The Cape'' subscribes to the belief that collaboration is king, that systems are good. In addition to rooting for Faraday, you are invited to get fully behind the city's doltish but well-meaning head of prisons.
Faraday is made from a different mold than some of his most prominent pop-cultural forebears. Neither a self-isolationist nor someone instinctively programmed to preserve the peace at any personal cost, he is a husband and a father who assumes the rule of supreme vigilante to reclaim his identity and get back to his family. The opening shot of the series immediately establishes that we are, at least in part, safely within the confines of domestic drama. Faraday is seen cuddling his son and reading to him from the child's favorite comic book, one called ''The Cape.'' What Faraday seems to want above all is a return to the comforts of a bedtime ritual.
That he happens on a very special garment, the foundation of his superheroism, allows him to fulfill his son's fantasies of paternal exceptionalism and the show to align itself with the notion that talent extends beyond genetic design. Faraday wasn't born with extraordinary powers; he works to acquire them, learning at the hands of a magician how to use a uniquely constructed cape as an ultraweapon. The house of Chanel has nothing on the creator of this outerwear.
NBC has tried and failed with comic-book narrative before in its defunct series ''Heroes,'' whose labyrinthine plot and overpopulated cast eventually drove viewers away. ''The Cape'' is far more economical in its storytelling, far less weighted by its own mythologies and a much better time. Someone in network land as learned a lesson.
THE CAPE
NBC, Sunday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time. Produced by Universal Media Studios and BermanBraun. Created by Tom Wheeler; Mr. Wheeler, Gail Berman, Lloyd Braun, John Wirth and Gene Stein, executive producers.
WITH: David Lyons (Vince Faraday), Jennifer Ferrin (Dana), Ryan Wynott (Trip), James Frain (Peter Fleming), Keith David (Max Malini), Summer Glau (Orwell), Dorian Missick (Marty Voyt), Martin Klebba (Rollo) and Vinnie Jones (Scales).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Lyons as the title character in ''The Cape,'' a series beginning Sunday on NBC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LUBIN/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MURDER (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); CORRUPTION (71%); RELOCATIONS (69%); PRISONS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (74%); AFGHANISTAN (69%)

TITLE: Cape, The (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



187 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Blue Shield of California Plans to Raise Some Rates Up to 59%

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Blue Shield of California, the insurer, submitted a proposal on Thursday to raise rates on individual policyholders by as much as 59 percent beginning March 1. 
The company, a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, said the increase was needed because of rising provider fees, greater use of medical services by its members, and ''the fact that healthier people are dropping coverage during a bad economy,'' Johnny Wong, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.
The increase comes less than a year after WellPoint's Anthem Blue Cross unit tried to raise rates in California by as much as 39 percent for those who buy individual policies. Eventually the company lowered the proposal to an average 14 percent increase. ''Even with these rate increases, Blue Shield of California expects to lose tens of millions of dollars on its individual health care business in both 2010 and 2011,'' Mr. Wong said in the e-mail.
Mr. Wong said about 193,000 policyholders would have to pay higher rates averaging about 30 percent. He did not cite a number for those who would face the 59 percent increase. Blue Shield of California has about 3.3 million members, he said.
The increases ''reflect trends that were building long before health reform,'' Mr. Wong said in the e-mail.
The California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones urged Blue Shield to delay the rate increases for 60 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%)

COMPANY: BLUE SHIELD OF CALIFORNIA (95%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (83%); WELLPOINT INC (57%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



188 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: An Inside View of QE2

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Deep inside the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the $600 billion man is fast at work.
In a spare, government-issue office in Lower Manhattan, behind a bank of cubicles and a scruffy copy machine, Josh Frost and a band of market specialists are making the Fed's ultimate Wall Street trade. They are buying hundreds of billions of dollars of United States Treasury securities on the open market in a controversial attempt to keep interest rates low and, in the process, revive the economy.
To critics, it is a Hail Mary play -- an admission that the economy's persistent weakness has all but exhausted the central bank's powers and tested the limits of its policy making. Around the world, some warn the unusual strategy will weaken the dollar and lead to crippling inflation.
But inside the Operations Room, on the ninth floor of the New York Fed's fortresslike headquarters, there is no time for second-guessing. Here the second round of what is known as quantitative easing -- QE2, as it is called on Wall Street -- is being put into practice almost daily by the central bank's powerful New York arm. 
Each morning Mr. Frost and his team face a formidable task: they must try to buy Treasuries at the best possible price from the savviest bond traders in the business.
The smallest miscalculation, a few one-hundredths of a percentage point here or there, could unsettle the markets and cost taxpayers dearly. It could also embolden critics at home and abroad who say QE2 represents a dangerous expansion of the Fed's role in the markets.
''We are looking to get the best price we can for the taxpayer,'' said Mr. Frost, a buttoned-down 34-year-old in a striped suit and rimless glasses.
Whether Mr. Frost will reach that goal is uncertain. What is sure is that market interest rates have risen, rather than fallen, since the Fed embarked on the program in November. That is the opposite of what was supposed to happen, although rates might have been even higher without the Fed program.
Mr. Frost's task is to avoid paying top dollar for bonds that could be worth less when the Fed tries to sell them one day.
Louis V. Crandall, the chief economist at the research firm Wrightson ICAP, said Wall Street bond traders were driving hard bargains. The Fed has tipped its hand by laying out which Treasuries it intends to buy and when, giving the bond houses an edge.
''A buyer of $100 billion a month is always going to be paying top prices,'' Mr. Crandall said of the Fed. ''You can't be a known buyer of $100 billion a month and get a good price.''
Nevertheless, Mr. Frost and his team have been praised on Wall Street for creating a simple, transparent program. Neither the Fed nor Wall Street want any surprises. The central bank is even disclosing the prices at which it buys.
Mr. Frost and his team work out of a small, beige corner office with arched windows that used to be a library. There, at about 10:15 most workday mornings, one of them pushes a button on a computer. Across Wall Street, three musical notes -- an F, an E and a D -- sound on trading terminals, alerting traders that the Fed is in the market.
On one recent Tuesday morning, what Mr. Frost and his five young colleagues did over a 45-minute period might have unsettled even a seasoned Wall Street hand: they bought $7.8 billion of Treasuries.
Mr. Frost and his team drew up the daily schedule for what the Fed calls its Large-Scale Asset Purchase program. And that program is, by any measure, large scale: through next June, these traders will buy roughly $75 billion of Treasuries a month -- on top of another $30 billion it is reinvesting in Treasuries from its mortgage-related holdings.
But depending on daily market conditions, Mr. Frost can decide not to buy certain bonds if they are already in short supply.
As offers to sell Treasuries flash on a bank of trading screens, a computer algorithm works out which ones to accept. The computer compares the offers from Wall Street against market prices and the Fed's own calculation of what constitutes a ''fair value'' price.
The real work is done by three traders who sit at a long table against the wall, tapping at seven screens.
The lead trader one recent morning was Tiffany Wilding, 26. While she reviewed the offers accepted by the algorithm, a second trader, Blake Gwinn, 29, double-checked her decisions and a third, James White, 29, made a duplicate of everything in case the computers crashed.
Mr. Frost stood behind his colleagues, ready to intervene -- even cancel the Fed's purchases -- at any sign of trouble.
They have their work cut out, trying to outwit the 18 investment firms that deal directly with the Fed. These so-called primary dealers -- the Goldmans and Morgans of the world -- employ some of the sharpest minds on Wall Street.
Mr. Frost -- a Rutgers math grad who has worked at the Fed for 12 years, lives in the Borough Hall area of Brooklyn and takes the subway each day to work -- is fairly well known within the dealer community. He and his team talk to the big banks most days.
The job carries great responsibility and is prominent within the Fed. But outside the Fed he and his colleagues are still seen more as staid central bankers doing a job, bankers say, not necessarily Wall Street hotshots likely to be snapped up by the likes of Goldman Sachs.
When devising the program, Mr. Frost and his team decided to focus most on buying Treasury notes with an average maturity of five to six years. That is because the yields on these notes have the biggest impact on interest rates for mortgage holders, consumers and companies issuing debt, and on banks' decisions to lend to businesses. Over the weeks and months of the program, his purchases should drive up the prices of these securities -- because they will be in greater demand -- and consequently push down their yields.
The trouble is, though yields fell sharply between August and November as the markets anticipated the new program, they have risen since it was formally announced in November, leaving many in the markets puzzled about the value of the Fed's bond-buying program.
Mr. Frost, and his boss, Brian P. Sack, insist the program has succeeded. Mr. Sack, 40, joined the Fed 18 months ago to run the entire markets group. He has a Ph.D. from M.I.T. and worked most recently for a Washington consulting firm. In 2004, he wrote a paper with Ben S. Bernanke, the future chairman of the Federal Reserve, and another economist about unconventional measures for stimulating the economy in extraordinary times -- just like large-scale purchases of Treasuries.
''We didn't know then that the Fed would be putting it to the test,'' he said.
He said the Obama administration's $858 billion tax compromise with Congressional Republicans in December complicated the macroeconomic picture.
But the biggest reason for the rise in interest rates was probably that the economy was, at last, growing faster. And that's good news.
''Rates have risen for the reasons we were hoping for: investors are more optimistic about the recovery,'' said Mr. Sack. ''It is a good sign.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



189 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: How to Replace Oprah? They're Working on It

BYLINE: By JIM KIRK. 
jkirk@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
With the collective attention of the television industry centered this week on the launch of OWN, Oprah Winfrey's new cable channel, the Chicago television station where it all started was preoccupied with the question raised many months ago: how to replace Ms. Winfrey when her daily show ends in September?
In the hope that lightning can strike twice, Emily Barr, president and general manager of the ABC-owned WLS-Channel 7, decided to take the risk of developing a new local program instead of the cheaper route of buying a syndicated show.
In the works is a one-hour, live local program, five days a week in front of a studio audience at the station's headquarters at 190 North State Street. A three-minute promotional tape outlining the broad idea of the show over the summer, reported by the media columnist Robert Feder, had the working title of ''Morning Rush.'' Ms. Barr, 52, who has led the station for the last 13 years, has hired two producers to develop the show and is hunting for a host or hosts for the program. 
Bill Rancic, a former winner on ''The Apprentice,'' and his wife, Giuliana Rancic, news anchor on the E! network, are said to be under consideration. A station spokeswoman would say only that the station is looking at a lot of people for the host position. Representatives for Mr. Rancic and Ms. Rancic did not return phone calls.
Though Ms. Winfrey was plucked from a Baltimore TV station by Channel 7 bosses to host a local, live show 25 years ago called ''AM Chicago,'' Ms. Barr insisted that the new show would not be back-to-the-future for the station. ''We are not trying to recreate the 'Oprah Winfrey Show,' '' Ms. Barr said in an interview. ''I don't think that's possible. I think we would be foolish to even attempt it.''
Yet, nowhere has Ms. Winfrey left a more indelible mark than on Channel 7, where many viewers turned on her show at 9 a.m. and never changed the channel, helping boost the station atop the ratings for several years. Though Ms. Winfrey and her program rose to international stardom on hundreds of stations, Chicagoans still considered her show a local Channel 7 production, even after she took over the rights of the program and moved it to her West Side Harpo Studios years ago, laying the groundwork for a media empire.
Her consistently high ratings and broad programming in recent years made her a natural draw for advertisers as well. Media buyers are watching closely how Channel 7, and other stations around the country, attempt to fill the lost ratings. ''What we are losing is something we knew was a consistent rating and a strong rating,'' said Kevin Gallagher, executive vice president and director of local activation at Starcom USA, the Chicago-based media agency. Media buyers want to know ''how are we going to make up those ratings?'' he said. ''Viewers will settle on something eventually.''
What viewers have wanted over the past few years has been a moving target. Critics contend that trying a live, local show is a big risk at a time of increased cost pressures on local television stations during a sluggish economy. At stake are the ratings Ms. Winfrey delivers, which in turn allow the station to charge more for advertising. Television executives in town suggest that viewers missing their daily fill of Ms. Winfrey at 9 a.m. will sample programming on other stations.
With Oprah now running in a lucrative time slot that affects the number of viewers who tune in the rest of the day, Ms. Barr said that doing nothing is a greater risk. More aggressive steps are needed to keep the audience intact, she said.
Many stations around the country that run the ''Oprah Winfrey Show'' in the late afternoon can more easily add news at that hour because, for them, the show usually leads into the late afternoon newscasts. According to Mr. Gallagher, that allows many stations to stretch their costs and control more of the advertising revenue.
In addition, the marketplace is much more fragmented than it was 25 years ago, when cable television was not a threat, three networks ruled the airwaves and no one had the Internet or smart phones to distract them from viewing. Critics contend that Channels 7's strategy is a throwback to a time when it was easier to take a chance on new, live, local programming.
''We never know what viewers are going to do,'' Mr. Gallagher said.
Now viewers have hundreds of channels to choose from, thanks to cable TV providers. Even local stations, including Channel 7, have separate digital channels to provide more options to viewers. The NBC-owned WMAQ-Channel 5 recently launched ''Chicago Nonstop,'' hyper-local news and lifestyle programming on one of its digital channels in an effort to attract even more local viewers.
Other stations in the market may shake up their programming to try to take advantage of more viewer sampling when Ms. Winfrey's show goes away.
''We've been competing against a huge show, and we've counter-programmed against that,'' said Mike Renda, vice president and general manager of the Fox-owned WFLD-Channel 32. ''The Oprah Winfrey Show,'' Mr. Renda said, ''sets up their day and rolls from there. People are going to look around for options. We've got some stuff up our sleeve.''
For Ms. Barr, the dilemma at Channel 7 is far more challenging than it is at other stations that carry the Oprah show in the late afternoon. The 9 a.m. slot is sandwiched between two programs that are fairly strong, especially with women: ''Good Morning America'' and ''The View.'' ''Something has to complement those shows,'' Ms. Barr said. ''It's like that second cup of coffee.''
''Here, Oprah really remained a local show,'' Ms. Barr said, adding that the idea is to provide continuity you get with a show done in front of an audience, but making sure it's local. ''We're not looking for a show that will go into syndication. That's not our plan.'' Ms. Barr is giving few details on the development of the new show. She hired Marlaine Selip, as the new show's executive producer, and Cindy Patrasso, as supervising producer. Both worked together for the former talk show host Phil Donahue.
''My only marching orders were that I want it to be live, I want it to be fun and local and we should try to take advantage of things that didn't exist 25 years before,'' Ms. Barr said, referring to things like Skype and Twitter. ''Whatever the 'ittering' thing of the day is,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oprah Winfrey in the control room as seen in ''Season 25: Oprah Behind the Scenes'' on her new channel, OWN. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARPO PRODUCTIONS)
 Emily Barr, of ABC 7 Chicago, has one of the toughest tasks in TV: finding a replacement for ''The Oprah Winfrey Show.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



190 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Beijing, Tendering Financial Support to Europe, Also Helps Itself

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Judy Dempsey contributed reporting from Berlin and Julia Werdigier from London.

 BODY:
PARIS
WHAT'S with China's charm offensive in Europe?
Chinese officials have stepped up their vows of support for European economies in the last several weeks, pledging to help Europe contain a sovereign debt crisis and accelerate a recovery.
This week, Beijing renewed a promise to buy debt from Spain and other countries feared to be facing a bailout. 
China's increasingly vocal backing appears aimed at curbing losses on its growing financial investments in Europe, as well as helping to thwart a deeper downturn in an economic bloc that has overtaken the United States as China's largest trading partner.
Although surging growth has helped transform China into an economic powerhouse, a worsening of Europe's crisis would be bad for business because the European Union buys a quarter of all goods made in China.
''If you're an export-driven economy like China, and the E.U. and the euro zone are your key export markets, it's in your interest to stabilize the financial and economic situation,'' said Ken Wattret, chief euro zone economist at BNP Paribas in London.
This week, a delegation led by China's executive deputy prime minister, Li Keqiang, is reinforcing that message in a series of visits to European capitals.
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain are rolling out the red carpet at each stop.
Mr. Li, who is expected to become China's next prime minister, is pledging to buy bonds worth billions of euros and to commit billions more in business deals.
In newspaper opinion pieces published in all three countries this week, Chinese officials emphasized Beijing's support for European leaders as they seek to exit the crisis.
Having failed so far to dig Europe out of a hole or quell fears that the crisis will spread, European officials are welcoming Mr. Li's spending spree.
This week, the Pacific Investment Management Company, the largest bond fund in the world, said it had stopped buying the government bonds of Portugal, Greece and Ireland, where bond yields have risen, reflecting concerns of a possible default.
In an interview with the German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung, Andrew Bosomworth, Pimco's manager in Munich, said the fund was also not investing new money in countries that were solvent but considered risky, including Spain and Italy.
China, on the other hand, is looking to diversify some of its $2.7 trillion in foreign currency reserves away from United States Treasury debt and its low yields, and into other investments, including euro-denominated debt.
And China could profit handsomely if its pledges of support helped countries like Greece and Portugal avoid a restructuring.
On Wednesday, the Spanish news media reported that Mr. Li said China would buy 6 billion euro ($7.8 billion) worth of bonds from Spain.
Support for Europe could have another beneficial effect for Beijing. Although China is not saying how much debt it is buying, analysts said the mere pledge to buy debt made it difficult for investors to bet against the euro, helping to bolster the currency.
A sharply weaker euro, which has already slid nearly 10 percent against the dollar in the last year, would make high-quality goods produced in countries like Germany more affordable on world markets, providing a greater challenge to Chinese exports.
Continued purchases of troubled European debt could carry risks further out for China, especially since Europe has decided to force some sovereign debtholders to take losses for defaults on investments made after 2013.
If part of the Chinese strategy is to ''ensure that they get repaid when others don't, they're kidding themselves,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard and a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
A further benefit redounds for China in its European strategy, analysts say. This week, Mr. Li presided over more than a dozen business deals with Spanish companies, including one between China Petrochemical and Repsol, Spain's largest oil company, to expand oil exploration in Latin America.
Both Spain and Portugal have significant strategic holdings in Latin America and Africa, two parts of the world where China wants to continue expanding.
''Spain and Portugal are not as much a beachhead for China into Europe -- how strategically important are they, really?'' said Marko Papic, a senior Europe analyst at Stratfor, a geopolitical intelligence company in Austin, Tex. ''But they do have these cultural, colonial and historic links to two regions that China is interested in.''
Mr. Li arrived in Berlin on Thursday for talks with the economy minister, Rainer Bruderle. On Friday, he is scheduled to meet with Mrs. Merkel; the German president, Christian Wulff; and the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle.
German exports to China amounted to 36.5 billion euros in 2009, and imports totaled 55.5 billion euros. Germany is China's biggest trading partner by far in Europe, and trade is surging, especially for high-value electrical and electronic goods. Germany's car industry, which suffered during the downturn, has recovered thanks to an increase in Chinese demand.
But German companies want Mrs. Merkel to lobby for the ability to invest more in China. So far, Beijing has been noncommittal to such requests.
Instead, China intends to use this visit to ask Germany to open its doors further for Chinese investment.
Mr. Li's visit is also seen as crucial in Britain, two months after Mr. Cameron helped win significant industrial orders during a trip to Beijing with ministers and business executives.
Mr. Cameron has pledged to strengthen economic ties with faster-growing economies, and hopes to build on his success in Beijing as a counter to a strict austerity program that is stifling the British economy.
China has made it clear, though, that its dealings with Britain are a part of its broader relations with the European Union.
''China alone may not be able to solve the problem for Europe,'' Liu Xiaoming, China's ambassador to Britain, wrote in The Telegraph on Tuesday, ''but it is willing to help as a true friend and partner when Europe is in need.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); BONDS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BOND FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (64%); BNP PARIBAS SA (59%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (59%); BNP (BIT) (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (79%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (56%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); DAVID CAMERON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) EUROPE (99%); CHINA (98%); SPAIN (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



191 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Asks Congress to Raise U.S. Debt Limit Quickly

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration warned Congress on Thursday that the government would reach its legal borrowing limit as early as the end of March and no later than May 16 and urged House and Senate leaders to move quickly to raise the debt ceiling to avoid an unprecedented default. 
The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, sent a formal notification to Capitol Hill a day after a new Congress convened with Republicans now holding a majority in the House and a larger minority in the Senate, and with many of the newcomers pledged to vote against any increase in the debt limit.
Raising the limit is among the least popular actions that Congress must take, and legislative brinkmanship between presidents and lawmakers has played out a number of times in past decades. The coming months promise to add another chapter to the history of budget showdowns: Republicans have said that they will try to force President Obama to accept deep cuts in domestic spending as the price for enough Republican votes to lift the limit.
''The American people will not stand for such an increase unless it is accompanied by meaningful action by the president and Congress to cut spending and end the job-killing spending binge in Washington,'' the new House speaker, Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said in a statement on Thursday.
On Tuesday, the House approved the new rules of Republicans, effectively making it harder to pass a debt-limit increase. No longer will an increase be automatic with passage of a budget resolution; it will have to be voted on separately.
Treasury officials, in a briefing for reporters, said the administration was leaving to Congress the decision on how much to raise the limit.
Mr. Geithner, in his letter to Congressional leaders of both parties, said the outstanding gross national debt stood at $13.95 trillion, $335 billion below the $14.29 trillion debt limit that Congress set last February. That ''headroom,'' as he called it, is enough to get through the first quarter, but exactly when the government will hit the ceiling this spring depends on the strength of the economy and the amount of tax revenue flowing into the Treasury.
''Failure to increase the limit would be deeply irresponsible,'' Mr. Geithner wrote, and added: ''It is important to emphasize that changing the debt limit does not alter or increase the obligations we have as a nation; it simply permits the Treasury to fund those obligations Congress has already established'' -- under presidents and Congresses of both parties.
He listed several ''exceptional actions'' that the Treasury could take to delay hitting the limit -- as the Clinton administration under former Secretary Robert E. Rubin did in the mid-1990s when it faced a recalcitrant Republican-controlled Congress. But those steps would buy only several weeks, Mr. Geithner added.
A failure to increase the limit in time would force the Treasury to default on legal obligations and payments to bondholders here and abroad ''causing catastrophic damage to the economy,'' Mr. Geithner said, threatening the dollar and stopping payments for a range of federal benefits, including military salaries, Social Security and Medicare.
''Given the gravity of the challenges facing the U.S. and world economies, the world's confidence in our creditworthiness is even more critical today,'' Mr. Geithner said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



192 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Remarks Introducing His New Chief of Staff

 BODY:
Following is a text of the remarks made on Thursday by President Obama and his newly selected chief of staff, William M. Daley, as released by the White House:
The President: Please have a seat, everybody. Happy New Year. Last October, when my former Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel departed to pursue other opportunities in Chicago, I asked Pete Rouse, one of my most trusted aides, to step into the breach and lead us through a very difficult time. And I also asked Pete to help us think about how the White House should be structured and run over the next two years. 
Thanks in no small part to his efforts, a period that everybody thought would be one of retrenchment turned out to be one of great progress for our country. And Pete's leadership is all the more remarkable when you consider that when I first met him and asked him to lead my Senate staff, he told me in that gruff voice of his that his strong inclination was to leave government. (Laughter and applause.) The reason everybody is applauding is because they've heard him say that every day -- (laughter) -- they've heard him say that every day for the last six years. And yet, each time I've asked him to accept one more assignment, he's saddled up and he's taken the job. And it's fair to say that I would not be where I am today without his extraordinary counsel.
Pete didn't volunteer to serve as interim Chief of Staff. He made it clear that that was not his preference. But he accepted the responsibility, and as he oversaw our strategy during the lame duck session of Congress, he also was working to develop a structure and a plan for the next two years that I believe will serve the White House, and more importantly the American people, very well. One of those assignments was providing me recommendations for candidates to serve as Chief of Staff moving forward.
As part of that process, today I am proud to announce the appointment of an experienced public servant, a devoted patriot, my friend, fellow Chicagoan Bill Daley, to serve as my Chief of Staff.
Few Americans can boast the breadth of experience that Bill brings to this job. He served as a member of President Clinton's Cabinet as Commerce Secretary. He took on several other important duties over the years on behalf of our country. He's led major corporations. He possesses a deep understanding of how jobs are created and how to grow our economy. And needless to say, Bill also has a smidgen of awareness of how our system of government and politics works. You might say it is a genetic trait.
But most of all, I know Bill to be somebody who cares deeply about this country, believes in its promise and considers no calling higher and more important than serving the American people. He will bring his tremendous experience, his strong values and forward-looking vision to this White House. I'm convinced that he'll help us in our mission of growing our economy and moving America forward. And I very much look forward to working with Bill in the years to come.
Before I ask Bill to say a few words, I should also confess that I have prevailed once again on Pete's sense of duty -- or sense of guilt, I'm not sure which -- and I'm grateful that he has agreed to one more tour of duty as my counselor for the next two years.
As you might have noticed, people like Pete. He is a unique and indispensable asset to me and to this administration. I cannot imagine life here without him, and I told him so. And I'm delighted that we're able to keep him a little bit longer.
I'll be making further announcements in the days and weeks ahead, and I am absolutely confident that we will have a great team that's equal to America's task in the years to come. But with that, what I'd like to do is to introduce my new Chief of Staff, Bill Daley.
Mr. Daley: Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. You have honored me and my family by giving me an opportunity to serve you and to serve our nation.
Fifty years ago this month I visited the White House with my parents and my brothers and sisters to visit a young President who went on to show great strength, leadership and vision in the face of enormous challenges in those times.
You, Mr. President, are proving your strength, your leadership, your vision during a most difficult time for our nation and for the world. You have also shown through your example that public service is an honorable calling, and I am pleased to answer your call.
I look forward to working with the wonderful staff which you have assembled, and I know my job will be made easier by the great work and direction of Pete Rouse, the direction and great work he has provided over these past couple of months, and the President talked about the enormous successes under Pete's watch.
Pete, too, has dedicated his life to public service and to our nation, and I'm grateful for his efforts, and I am proud to call him my colleague. I assure you, Mr. President, as they have done in the last two years, that this team will not let you down, nor the nation.
Thank you very much for this extreme honor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); JOB CREATION (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETE ROUSE (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



193 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: A Shift in Tactics, Not in Ideology

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Most of the talk in Democratic circles on Thursday, after it became known that President Obama had chosen William M. Daley as his chief of staff, was of going back to the 1990s. The consensus was that Mr. Obama, who once held himself out as the clear alternative to the political expedience of the Clinton years, had, in the end, chosen the path of Clintonian centrism over a return to more boldly progressive ideals.
If the conventional wisdom was right, though, then it was only half right, and it missed the larger significance of Mr. Obama's decision. The president is, in fact, reaching back to the Clinton era, but that shift has less to do with ideology than with a theory of presidential power and how to use it. 
Since the November elections, Mr. Obama has found himself buffeted by critics on both sides of his party's longstanding ideological divide. Liberals have argued that the defeat was brought on by a lack of populist conviction and have pleaded with the White House to get tough with conservatives and corporations. Democrats in the Clinton mold, meanwhile, have pointed to the elections as proof that the administration and its allies in Congress lurched too far left, and they have urged a more bipartisan approach.
Both sides interpreted the announcement of Mr. Daley's hiring -- along with the pending addition of Gene Sperling as the administration's top economic advisor -- as a sign that Mr. Obama has essentially decided to throw in with the centrists.
''He's got a lot of views that will tend to take the administration in the exact wrong direction,'' Roger Hickey of the liberal Campaign for America's Future said of Mr. Daley. Meanwhile, in a statement, the centrist group Third Way, which counts Mr. Daley as a board member, celebrated him as someone ''who knows exactly how to best help the president recapture the center of American politics.''
It's certainly fair to say that Mr. Obama seems to be repudiating the progressive theory of the election; rather than go to war with Republicans and big business, Mr. Obama intends to reset both relationships. And yet, if the appointments of Mr. Daley and Mr. Sperling portend some kind of ideological break from where the Obama White House has been the last two years, then it isn't entirely clear how.
Mr. Daley's politics are essentially indistinguishable from those of the man he replaces, his fellow Chicagoan and protege Rahm Emanuel (who, like Mr. Daley, got rich working for an investment bank). Both men are said to be pragmatists who care less about political theory than about getting things done, and progressives were never any happier with Mr. Emanuel than they are with the choice of his successor.
Similarly, Mr. Sperling, who worked for Goldman Sachs before joining the Obama administration, may fairly be called a centrist thinker, but he's certainly no more of a centrist than his immediate predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, another veteran of the Clinton administration who also spent a profitable interlude on Wall Street.
In other words, if anything, this week's appointments would seem to represent a continuation of the ideological course Mr. Obama has been following since before he took the oath of office, rather than any substantive shift in his worldview.
But in filling two of the most critical roles in his administration, Mr. Obama did look to the example of the Clinton years in a more consequential way. He signaled that he is ready to take the campaign for his legislative priorities directly to the American people, as Bill Clinton often did, rather than confining it to the 535 Americans who do their business on the other side of Pennsylvania Avenue.
The first senator elected directly to the presidency in 48 years (and only the third ever), Mr. Obama designed the most Congressionally centered White House in modern history. His West Wing is dominated by former Congressional aides, led by a vice president who served for 35 years in the Senate and, until recently, anyway, a chief of staff plucked from the House leadership.
That relentless focus on Congressional relations helped Mr. Obama pass a series of major initiatives in his first half-term. But it also had the effect of embroiling Mr. Obama in the arcane details of legislative negotiations -- wooing moderate Republicans over a deal on Medicaid reimbursement formulas, for instance -- when he might have been better served making a sustained case for his agenda to a jittery public.
Now Mr. Obama seems inclined to turn his attention outward, toward the rest of the country. Mr. Daley might not know his way around all the labyrinthine passages of the Capitol, but he brings a campaign mind-set to the administration. He directed the successful White House effort to win approval for the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and later ran Al Gore's presidential campaign, fighting to the last hanging chad.
''He's got a set of experiences and skills that are going to be very helpful to Obama,'' says John D. Podesta, Mr. Clinton's former chief of staff. ''This is really useful in getting out of the mode of thinking that the presidency is defined simply by your relationship with Congress, as opposed to using all the tools of authority you have as president.''
In the same way, Mr. Sperling, unlike the less-than-diplomatic Mr. Summers, is known to be politically sophisticated, a policy nerd with long experience as an adviser to Democratic politicians going back to Mario M. Cuomo. His advice to the president will be informed not just by economic theory but also by a sense of what can sway voters and how.
What these appointments suggest is that Mr. Obama is now readying himself for an extended public campaign -- or, rather, for two of them. The first begins now, as the president tries to recast himself as a reformer beholden to neither party, a grownup parrying the partisan thrusts of pettier adversaries.
The second will kick in soon enough, as Mr. Obama looks toward 2012 in hopes of becoming only the second Democratic president since Franklin D. Roosevelt to be elected twice. The other, of course, was Mr. Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



194 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Anticipates Deep Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House has ordered the Pentagon to squeeze almost all growth from its spending over the next five years, which will require eventually shrinking the Army and Marine Corps and seeking controversial increases in the fees paid by for retired, working-age veterans for their health insurance, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Thursday.
The reductions of up to 47,000 troops from the Army and Marine Corps forces -- roughly 6 percent shrinkage -- would be the first since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, reversing the trend ever since. They will be made easier by the withdrawal under way from Iraq, and will only begin in 2015 -- just as Afghan forces are to take over the security mission there according to agreements with NATO. 
But Mr. Gates said the cuts in Pentagon spending were hardly a peace dividend, and were forced by a global economic recession and domestic pressures to find ways to throttle back federal spending. Indeed, the announcement of his proposal, which Congress would have to approve, came on the same day as word that he would be adding about 1,400 Marines in coming months to the forces fighting in Afghanistan.Mr. Gates said the budget proposals reflect the ''extreme fiscal duress'' felt by the United States Government, and he acknowledged that protecting American global interests and sustaining the entire gamut of American power required the military to take a tough look at its spending practices.
The Pentagon's proposed operating budget for 2012 is expected to be about $553 billion, which will still reflect real growth, even though it is $13 billion less than expected. But then the Pentagon budget will begin a decline in the rate of growth for two years, and then will stay flat -- even with inflation -- for fiscal years 2015 and 2016. Over five years the reductions would amount to $78 billion. (The Pentagon operating budget is separate from a contingency fund that pays for the military's combat and stability efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq.)
The actual size and shape of future military budgets will continue to be reset by annual spending proposals from the president, and those in turn will be based on shifting economic factors decline or growth and threats around the world, as well as by Congressional action.
But, for now, the Army is expected in 2015 to begin cutting its active-duty troop levels by 27,000, and the Marine Corps to reduce its active-duty ranks by up to 20,000. Together, those force reductions would save $6 billion in 2015 and 2016.
Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said all four service chiefs supported the proposals, and that the military would still be able to manage global risks.
The Army's current active-duty end strength is 569,600, and the Marine Corps, which like the Army has grown in numbers since 2001, has just over 202,000 in its active component. Senior Marine Corps officials had already been examining cutting their force size to more efficiently and effectively carry out the Corps' historic mission. And both services would remain larger than when Mr. Gates became defense secretary four years ago.
Had the armed services and Pentagon bureaucracy not already found significant ways to operate more efficiently, the impact of the budget cuts ordered by the White House would have been far more significant on troop levels and war-fighting equipment.
The armed services had identified about $100 billion in savings over five years: The Army had found $29 billion, the Air Force $34 billion and the Navy and Marine Corps $35 billion.
About $70 billion of those savings -- found through operating efficiencies and cancellations of weapons systems -- are to be reinvested by the services into personnel and quality-of-life accounts, as well as into weapons purchases and weapons modernization.
But $28 billion of those efficiency savings must be devoted to paying unexpected bills for such things as rising fuel costs and maintenance, but that was preferable to raiding current operating funds to meet those unanticipated expenses.
Separately, the Defense Department bureaucracy had identified about $54 billion more in savings over five years, from such things as reducing contractor hiring, freezing personnel numbers and reducing the number of admirals, generals and senior civilian slots, as well as closing or consolidating headquarters.
Many of those changes can be carried out unilaterally by the Pentagon or the armed services. But some -- especially increases in fees for the military's health-care system, called Tricare -- require Congressional approval, and have been rejected before.
A battle over increasing Tricare fees will pit the efforts of the Pentagon to contain the exploding cost of health care for eligible retirees against the pain and emotions of those who say they have already ''paid up front'' with service in uniform. Congress has been reluctant to raise those fees.
Total health care costs for the Pentagon, which is the nation's single largest employer, top $50 billion a year, a tenth of its budget and about the same amount that it is spending this year on the war in Iraq. Ten years ago, health care cost the Pentagon $19 billion; five years from now it is projected to cost $65 billion.
But Tricare fees have not increased since 1995. Mr. Gates was expected to press for increasing the cost of health insurance premiums and spot fees for retirees and their families, not for those on active duty or military retirees 65 and older.
Mr. Gates said his proposals for Tricare would save $7 billion over five years.
Mr. Gates also announced cuts in several weapons systems, led by the cancellation of the Marine's Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, a combined landing craft and tank for amphibious assaults. The Marines had already spent over $3 billion on the $14.4 billion program.
Mr. Gates also said that the Pentagon would save $4 billion by delaying purchases of the new F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, made by Lockheed Martin. He said the structure and propulsion system of one of the three versions might need to be redesigned, and he was placing that model, made for the Marines, ''on the equivalent of a two-year probation.'' He said that if that model could not be fixed, ''then I believe it should be cancelled.''
Mr. Gates said the Navy would have to buy or refurbish more than 150 F/A-18's as a hedge against further delays on the F-35, adding billions in additional costs.
Federal officials said Mr. Gates had been seeking to increase the basic Pentagon budget, excluding war costs, to $566 billion for fiscal 2012, but had to push the White House to approve $553 billion, or $13 billion less.
That would be a slight increase over the $549 billion that the Pentagon had sought for 2011 and the moderately lower numbers that Congress is considering for this year.
Gordon Adams, a Clinton administration budget official who served on Mr. Obama's transition team, said he understood that White House budget officials initially wanted to shave the Pentagon's request by at least $20 billion for 2012.
Mr. Adams said Mr. Gates viewed this as breaking an earlier promise, and he met with President Obama three times before Christmas to get at least $8 billion restored. Mr. Gates was also able to persuade the White House to reduce its demands for cuts over the next five years to $78 billion from $150 billion.But even so, Mr. Adams said, ''I think the floor under defense spending has now gone soft'' But given the Congress authorizes government spending a year at a time, he said, the projected numbers beyond 2012 ''are up for grabs. Don't count on any of it.''
Once Mr. Obama releases his budget proposals in February, the battle will shift to Capitol Hill, where it is hard to predict how the cross-currents will shake out now that the Republicans control the House. Some of the most senior Republicans want to keep increasing the Pentagon budget, while new members linked to the Tea Party think the military should shrink along with the rest of the government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); TERRORISM (70%); APPROVALS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



195 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Obama Plan Aims to Ease Mexican Trucking Ban

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration offered a proposal on Thursday to allow long-haul Mexican trucks to move cargo in the United States.
The proposal, which the Mexican government greeted as a positive step, was the latest sign of a new willingness by the Obama administration to support free-trade measures backed by Republicans and by businesses despite objections from labor unions and other liberal constituencies.
The United States has effectively barred Mexican trucks from operating on American roads since March 2009. Mexico said the ban violated the North American Free Trade Agreement, which took effect in 1994, and retaliated by imposing $2.4 billion in punitive tariffs on a wide range of American agricultural and other products imported to Mexico. 
On Thursday, the United States transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, offered a ''concept document'' that could help resolve the dispute.
Under the plan, Mexican long-haul trucking operators could seek permits to operate in the United States so long as they agree to safety, insurance and other monitoring requirements. The proposal would not cover the movement of hazardous materials.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce applauded the proposal, the latest indication of a thawing in the frosty relationship between the administration and the giant business lobby, which spent tens of millions of dollars to defeat Democrats in November.
''It's past time that we kept our word and complied with the promise we made to allow carefully inspected trucks to move across the border,'' Thomas J. Donohue, the president of the chamber, said in a statement. ''We will closely study the U.S. proposal and hope we can help implement a modern cross-border transportation system that provides certainty for trucking companies and shippers throughout North America.''
Mexican officials responded positively but cautiously to Mr. LaHood's proposal, saying they would offer a fuller response on Monday. If a final agreement is reached -- a process that could be months away -- the tariffs would probably be lifted in a matter of weeks, officials said.
''Mexico will carefully and constructively evaluate the U.S. proposal to solve the longstanding trucking dispute,'' the Mexican ambassador to Washington, Arturo Sarukhan, wrote in a Twitter post.
However, the proposal by the Transportation Department was denounced by the Teamsters union, which represents long-haul truckers and fears that expanded Mexican trucking within the United States will threaten jobs.
''I am deeply disappointed by this proposal,'' the union's president, James P. Hoffa, said in a statement. ''Why would the D.O.T. propose to threaten U.S. truck drivers' and warehouse workers' jobs when unemployment is so high? And why would we do it when drug cartel violence along the border is just getting worse?'' Mr. Hoffa also raised safety concerns.
Democratic lawmakers reacted cautiously to the proposal.
Senator Patty Murray of Washington, who is active on agricultural issues, said in a statement: ''I am glad that the administration is moving forward with a plan to finally end the devastating Mexican tariffs on Washington State agricultural products.'' But she did not explicitly address the trucking dispute or the objections by unions.
The trucking ban took effect after Mr. Obama signed legislation containing a provision that ended a pilot program, begun in September 2007, to allow Mexican trucks north of the border. For months, the administration had said it was working to resolve the dispute, but offered little sign of progress.
Transportation Department officials emphasized that the proposal was only a ''starting point for negotiations'' and that it would solicit public comment on the final rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCKING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); TRUCK SAFETY (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); CARTELS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAY LAHOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



196 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Carbon Dioxide, the Bane of Environmentalists, Is in Demand in the Oil Industry

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
The Obama administration views carbon dioxide as a pollutant that warms the earth, and it imposed new regulations at the beginning of the year to begin to control CO2 emissions. But to Texas oilmen, carbon dioxide is a useful -- and scarce -- commodity that is vital to extracting hard-to-reach oil reserves.
In Texas, the nation's largest oil-producing state, the demand for CO2 is soaring -- because carbon dioxide can help squeeze oil out of formations deep underground -- and new carbon dioxide-producing plants are in the works. 
Last month, Texas air-quality regulators approved crucial permits for two coal-fired power plants that will capture their carbon dioxide emissions and sell them for use in nearby oil fields. Also in December, a major new pipeline operated by Denbury Resources of Plano began ferrying carbon dioxide from Mississippi to oil fields near Houston.
''The demand for carbon dioxide is very, very large,'' said Steve Melzer, president of the Texas Carbon Capture and Storage Association.
Some oil-extraction projects have been delayed, Mr. Melzer said, because they cannot buy enough carbon dioxide.
The idea of capturing carbon dioxide and pumping it underground is gaining traction in the power sector. It sounds like an exercise in environmental idealism: Take the heat-trapping gas -- belched profusely from coal plants, which generate 45 percent of the nation's electricity -- and bury it, benefiting the atmosphere and combating global climate change. Of course, it is something of an environmental paradox that stowing the greenhouse gas can also help to produce more fossil fuels.
Carbon dioxide is a ''fantastic solvent,'' said Susan Hovorka, a scientist with the Gulf Coast Carbon Center at the Jackson School of Geosciences at the University of Texas. In a nearly liquid form, it can mix with the underground oil, making the oil more fluid and easier to extract. Water is pumped in before the carbon dioxide; when carbon dioxide is unavailable, water suffices, but it is not as effective.
Some of the carbon dioxide comes back out with the oil, but that gets separated and reused in the wells. When the project has finished producing oil, the vast majority of the carbon dioxide stays underground and will not leak out of the tiny pores it is wedged into, said Ms. Hovorka, whose team has monitored two oil fields in the state and verified that the gas did not escape.
Capturing carbon dioxide can increase a coal plant's capital cost by about 30 percent -- a key reason no major power plant with that capability has been built in the United States. One pilot project, slated to expand, has been operating in West Virginia since 2009, and another plant that may capture and store carbon dioxide is under construction in Indiana. In addition to the two proposed Texas plants, projects are in the planning phases in California, Illinois, Kentucky and Mississippi, said Julio Friedmann, director of the carbon management program at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory.
Texas, however, has a major advantage over most other states: it can put the carbon dioxide to use. The West Virginia plant pumps carbon dioxide underground just to keep it out of the air, but Texas plants can sell it to oil companies.
Texas has been using carbon dioxide to help extract oil since the early 1970s. Much of the state's supply is piped in from New Mexico and Colorado, where dome formations yield abundant CO2. In recent years -- due to high, though fluctuating, oil prices that motivate oil producers to expand operations -- demand for carbon dioxide has far outstripped supply in the Permian Basin. Prices there for carbon dioxide for new projects have more than doubled in the past five years and are now close to half the wellhead price of natural gas, measured by volume, Mr. Melzer said.
It seems odd that Texas, which because of its heavy industry discharges more carbon dioxide into the air than any other state, would need to import it. But this could begin to change, in a modest way, with the construction of the two coal plants that received air permits last month. One is a $3.5 billion to $4 billion plant called the Tenaska Trailblazer Energy Center near Sweetwater; the other is a $2.2 billion plant near Odessa built by Summit Power.
Neither power plant is being built yet, but they plan to capture 85 percent or more of their carbon dioxide emissions and sell them to oil companies. Laura Miller, Summit Power's director of projects in Texas, said the Odessa plant would get one-third of its revenue from selling power, one-third from selling fertilizer -- a byproduct of a coal-gasification process to be used by the plant -- and one-third from selling carbon dioxide.
Some environmentalists -- in effect acknowledging that the country cannot quickly wean itself off coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel -- have tepidly endorsed the concept of capturing carbon dioxide from coal plants and storing it underground. James D. Marston, the Texas head of the Environmental Defense Fund, which received a written commitment from Tenaska to using carbon-capture technologies, noted that the state's planned plants would help show that the technology works..
Whether Texas' plants actually get built remains to be seen. Around the country, some similar projects have folded or stalled due to cost. The failure last year of federal legislation that would have in effect put a price on emissions of heat-trapping gases hurt the economics of the plants, which will sell power at market prices in Texas.
But federal and state help have pushed the Texas projects along. Both Texas and the federal Environmental Protection Agency have recently issued new rules governing carbon-capture projects designed to provide clarity for the industry -- and have also provided financial help.
The Summit Power plant received $450 million in federal incentives, and is eligible for state incentives, including a tax credit, approved in the last legislative session, worth up to $100 million.
Some Texans are already looking far ahead, to when carbon dioxide, because of its heat-trapping properties, gets buried for its own sake -- not just in oil fields.
The Gulf Coast Carbon Center recently received $10 million from the federal stimulus package and Texas' General Land Office to study the possibility of storing carbon dioxide emissions below the Gulf of Mexico -- ''not that anyone is going to want to do it tomorrow,'' Ms. Hovorka said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Denbury Resources began pumping carbon dioxide into this oil field in Alvin, Tex., last month. The gas is piped in from Mississippi and helps extract oil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENJING ZHANG FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (75%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); APPROVALS (69%)

COMPANY: DENBURY RESOURCES INC (56%)

TICKER: DNR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011



197 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: For House Members Looking to Save Money, a Day at the Office Never Ends

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Hansen Clarke, a newly elected Democrat from Michigan, is coming to Washington with a ''warrior's mentality'' to help stave off unemployment and foreclosures in metro Detroit. He plans to hole up in his ''bunker'' -- his Longworth House office, where he will work (''practically around the clock''), eat (''healthy options'' like microwaved sweet potatoes) and sleep (most likely on a mattress and sleeping bag combination).
''Washington is not going to be a home for me -- I'm only there to work,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''I need to be able to work up to 20 hours a day and still get some decent sleep, and if I sleep in my office I'll be able to do that.''
Mr. Clarke is one of as many as a dozen freshman House members who plan to bunk in their offices when Congress is in session. Though no one has hard numbers, anecdotal evidence suggests that at least 40 to 50 House members, both new and old, will be sleeping at work. 
For many of them, joining the unofficial Couch Caucus is a practical way to save money and a symbolic gesture that they are both fiscally conservative and serious about changing how business is done in Washington.
''It just seemed like sleeping in my office, just focusing totally on my work when I'm here, made the most sense,'' said Joe Walsh, Republican of Illinois. ''I don't want to think about where I'm living, I don't want to think about what I'm eating; I want to get in, do my work and then get home and talk to the people who sent me here.''
For Todd Rokita, Republican of Indiana, and James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, the choice came down to money.
Mr. Rokita simply found it unpalatable to pay $2,000 for the 600-square-foot basement apartment that his wife begged him to at least consider.
''I am much too fiscally conservative, not only with the people's money but with my own, to pay that much money,'' Mr. Rokita said.
The group of office sleepers, which stretches across party lines, is a male-heavy crowd. No one knew of any women who had gone public with plans to sleep in their offices, although Kristi Noem, a Republican from South Dakota, toyed with the idea before ultimately renting a small basement apartment near the Capitol.
Ms. Noem is ''not afraid of roughing it,'' she wrote in an e-mail.
''I've gone on weeklong elk hunting trips with my brothers, after all, but sleeping on a couch four nights a week for the next two years is a little much,'' she said. ''The rent is more than I'd like to pay, but getting a good night's sleep will hopefully mean I'm more productive in the work for my constituents for the few days I am in Washington each week.''
There are logistical hurdles to consider. Every new member's office comes equipped with basic furniture and a couch, but the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer said it did not provide futons, sleeper-sofas or air mattresses. Every office also includes a bathroom and sink, but when it comes to showers, members will find themselves heading to the members' gym in the Rayburn House Office Building.
''A robe?'' asked Mr. Walsh, who admitted that he is ''not a real solid details guy'' and that he had not yet puzzled out all the specifics of his living situation. ''I'm a big sweats guy, so I imagine I'll sneak down in my sweats and a T-shirt, because I'm going to want to work out.''
Sleeping in Capitol Hill offices, which is not a new practice, became especially popular when Dick Armey decided to bunk near his desk, said Kirsten Fedewa, who worked on the Hill as a press secretary in the 1990s.
''When members realized he was doing it, he made it really in vogue,'' Ms. Fedewa said. ''It was kind of like, wow, the icon is doing it, it makes a lot of sense.''
These makeshift sleeping arrangements do provoke some grumbling. Skeptics argue that the arrangements do not actually save the taxpayers money -- if anything, they say, members should have to pay Congress a small stipend for the added resources they use at night. They also complain that the practice can feel like a macho boys club, that it promotes a fierce anti-Washington sentiment that hurts bipartisanship and that, frankly, it just seems weird.
New members considering the option are not lacking in role models.
John Sullivan, Republican of Oklahoma, moved into his office when first elected in 2002, switched to a town house, and then changed back to sleeping at work four years ago. (In 2008, he even ran a campaign ad that showed him blowing up an air mattress as he explained: ''I don't even spend money on an apartment in D. C. Just keep an inflatable bed in my office closet. I watch your pennies, and I watch mine.'').
Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who came to Congress in 2008 carrying a cot wrapped in duct tape under his arm, said he had been asked for advice by a dozen or so new representatives.
''As the freshmen come in, in particular the spouses, they want to see the cot, they want to see how you get back and forth to the gym,'' he said. ''The profile is usually the married ones. They've got a young family at home, trying to save some money; they don't come to Congress as millionaires.''
The few single folks, he said, prefer ''a bachelor pad.''
Mr. Chaffetz is happy to share his own time-tested tips -- tape a ''Member Resting: Do Not Disturb'' sign on the door before turning in, keep a ready stash of Pop-Tarts and popcorn for late-night hunger, and avoid the vending-machine cheeseburger at all cost. Oh, and beware of the mice.
''You need some d-Con and mousetraps,'' he said, cheerfully. ''We've got a mouse problem up here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a picture caption on Friday for an article about members of Congress who are choosing to sleep in their offices referred incorrectly to Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, who was shown setting up a cot. As the article correctly noted, Mr. Chaffetz came to Congress in 2008; he is not a freshman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Jason Chaffetz's office doubles as his quarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CONSERVATISM (70%)

PERSON: HANSEN CLARKE (90%); TODD ROKITA (70%); KRISTI NOEM (58%); JASON CHAFFETZ (58%); JAMES T WALSH (58%); JAMES LANKFORD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



198 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
GERMANY HALTS EGG SALES
After Finding Deadly Toxin
German officials halted sales from 4,700 small farms and pulled millions of eggs from the shelves after dioxin was discovered in feed for chickens and pigs, and authorities announced that the contamination might have started months ago. The news set off a scramble in countries that import food from Germany, with two banning the sale of some animal products. Page A4
RECOGNITION FROM CHILE 
Chile formally recognized an independent state of Palestine, becoming the seventh South American country to take such a step in the past month. Page A6
AFGHAN BOMBER KILLS 17
A suicide bomber killed a senior border police commander, two other police officers and 14 civilians in an attack in a crowded bathhouse in the southern Afghanistan, Afghan officials said. Page A7
BRITAIN RAISES TERROR ALERT
The British authorities raised the terrorism alert level for airports, rail stations and other transportation hubs, but left unchanged the threat level for the rest of the country, security officials said. Page A8
SHOOTING BY ISRAELI SOLDIERS
Israeli soldiers shot and killed an unarmed 65-year-old Palestinian in his bedroom in the West Bank, in what appeared to be a case of mistaken identity. Page A8
GATES RETURNS TO BEIJING
In late 2007, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates flew to Beijing bearing pledges of harmony and vows to strengthen the Pentagon's ties with China's booming military. This weekend, he sets forth on the same journey, but with mostly conflict and suspicion to show for the three years that have elapsed. Page A8
National
A PUBLISHER SHOWCASES
Student Research Papers
William H. Fitzhugh, the cantankerous publisher of The Concord Review, a journal that showcases high school research papers, is returning to the idea of requiring students to dig deeply and write at length. Page A10
OBAMA SIGNS DEFENSE BILL
President Obama signed a major defense bill that includes strict new limits on the government's ability to transfer detainees out of the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He sharply criticized those restrictions, but did not claim that he had the constitutional authority to disregard them. Page A11
COURT TO WEIGH CONFLICTS
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether states may forbid government officials to vote on matters where they appear to have a personal conflict. The case, which concerns a member of a City Council in Nevada, was one of seven the court added to its docket. Page A11
New York
A LIFE SENTENCE REQUESTED
By Prosecutors for Bomber
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan asked a judge to impose a life sentence on Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, the former Guantanamo detainee who was tried last fall in the 1998 bombings of two American Embassies in East Africa, according to a government court filing. Page A17
Obituary
VANG PAO, 81
He was a charismatic Laotian general who commanded a secret army of his mountain people in a long, losing campaign against Communist insurgents, then achieved almost kinglike status as their leader-in-exile in the United States. Page A19
Business
AT ACCOUNTING FIRMS,
Flex Time Flourishes
The peak season for the nation's accounting firms is beginning. In the past, this time often fuels marital spats, missed dinners and children's tantrums over forgotten basketball games. But now, at the nation's major accounting firms, workplace flexibility has been built into the culture even at crunch time. Page B1
EDITOR AT FRENCH VOGUE
Less than a month after Carine Roitfeld announced she would leave the editor in chief's job at French Vogue, the magazine named Emmanuelle Alt to succeed her. Page B4
OBAMA'S NEW ADVISER
President Obama completed the midterm makeover of his core economic team as it turned from crisis management to recovery measures, naming Gene B. Sperling as senior economic adviser in the White House. Page A3
Arts
EXPLORING A PERENNIAL
In an Elusive Way
Daniel Kitson's solo theater work -- his show is playing at St. Ann's Warehouse in Brooklyn as part of the Under the Radar festival -- deserves comparison to the best storytelling of Spalding Gray and Mike Daisey, writes Jason Zinoman. Mr. Kitson explores questions about loss and love and meaning too complicated to answer completely. Page C1
SOUNDTRACK FOR CHAOS
Alan Gilbert conducted the New York premiere of the British composer Thomas Ades's ''In Seven Days (Concerto for Piano With Moving Image).'' This riveting, restless and kaleidoscopically colorful 30-minute orchestra piece, written in 2008, writes Anthony Tommasini, incorporates projected videos by Tal Rosner to illustrate the Genesis story through music and imagery. Page C5
Sports
A PARTICULAR CHANT
To Herald a New Hero
Whenever the coaches of the Green Bay Packers show film of the beefy running back John Kuhn carrying the ball -- often on a battering-ram run inside the 20-yard line -- his teammates chant his last name, mimicking the way the fans salute their newest cult hero. Page D2
Op-ed
BOB HERBERT PAGE A21
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A21
Gail Collins Page A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK FEED (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POULTRY (90%); MAMMALS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); SENTENCING (85%); JAIL SENTENCING (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); SHOOTINGS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRISONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); JUDGES (60%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (51%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) CHILE (94%); GERMANY (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHINA (90%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



199 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Small, but Performing Better Than the Big Shots

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
SIZE mattered in investing in 2010. Small was definitely better.
In the United States and other regions of the world, small-capitalization stocks generally rose more than their larger brethren did, continuing a trend that began in the spring of 2009 when stock markets hit bottom during the worst period of the credit crisis. 
As can be seen in the accompanying charts, the Russell 1000 -- the thousand American stocks with the largest capitalization -- rose 13.9 percent during the year. That was little better than half the 25.3 percent rise of the Russell 2000, which includes only stocks not large enough to be in the Russell 1000.
All of the 10 industry sectors that Russell calculates showed better performance by smaller companies, with the widest margin in technology stocks.
The small-is-better phenomenon was true even within the universe of large companies. Russell maintains an index of the top 50 stocks in the country. It rose just 7 percent, about half the overall gain of the top 1,000.
Stephen Wood, the chief market strategist of Russell Investments, the firm that maintains the indexes, noted that smaller stocks tended to perform worse in the sharp market plunge in late 2008 and early 2009, in part because they were less likely to have access to capital. But in the rally since then, capital has gradually become more available, giving those companies a better chance to grow.
There was a similar trend in most other markets around the world. Russell's global indexes, with American stocks removed, also showed better growth for smaller stocks. That was true in both developed and emerging markets. The global index of large stocks gained 9.5 percent, less than half the 23.8 percent rise of the index of smaller issues.
One result of the rise of smaller stocks is that the 10 largest companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 now account for just 17.6 percent of that index's value. That is down from 19.7 percent a year ago and is the lowest since at least 1980, the earliest year for which such data is available.
As recently as 1999, the 10 largest stocks accounted for more than a quarter of the value of the entire index. Half of the 10 most valuable stocks then are still on the top 10 list, but the value of some others -- notably America Online and Lucent Technologies --collapsed when the technology bubble burst. The value of Citigroup, which was then another of the top 10, plunged during the financial crisis.
Of the 10 largest stocks a year ago, only one rose as much as the Russell 2,000 average. That was Apple, which leaped 53 percent during the year and is now more valuable than Microsoft. Exxon Mobil, with a market capitalization of $369 billion at the end of 2010, was the only company worth more than Apple, which was valued at $296 billion. Two of the 10 largest stocks -- Google and Johnson & Johnson -- were among the small minority of issues that lost value during 2010.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Humble in Size, but Not in Returns: In stock markets around the world, smaller stocks did better than larger ones in 2010. Each industry sector of the Russell 2000 -- the stocks ranked 1,001 to 3,000 in market capitalization in the United States -- outperformed the similar sector of the Russell 1000, made up of the largest stocks in the country. Internationally, the same was true of stocks in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region, and for developed and emerging markets. (Sources: Frank Russell Company, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (62%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (56%); AOL INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (62%); ALU (NYSE) (62%); ALU (BIT) (62%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); XOM (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011



200 of 847 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Building An Alliance To Aid Films By Blacks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Ava DuVernay, the filmmaker and publicist, imagines a time when black-theme pictures will flourish in places where African-American film festivals have already found eager viewers.
Fifty such cities would be an ideal black-film circuit, Ms. DuVernay said. In March she will start with five.
''I Will Follow,'' which was written and directed by Ms. DuVernay and stars Salli Richardson-Whitfield (''I Am Legend,''''Black Dynamite'') as a woman sorting through memories of a dead aunt, is set to become the first film from the newly formed African-American Film Festival Releasing Movement.
The plan is to put black-theme movies in commercial theaters, initially from the independent film program recently begun by the AMC theater chain, for a two-week run supported by social networks, mailing lists and other buzz-building services at the disposal of allied ethnic film festivals. 
The films will not be part of normal festival programs, but will screen in all cities simultaneously with promotional backing from the festival organizations, which will share in revenue. The inaugural group of backers is expected to include the Urbanworld Film Festival in New York, the Pan African Film Festival in Los Angeles, the ReelBlack Film Series in Philadelphia, the BronzeLens Film Festival in Atlanta and the Langston Hughes African American Film Festival in Seattle.
A second film, and three more cities -- Chicago, Boston and Nashville -- are expected to follow in August.
And if Ms. DuVernay is correct in her belief that African-American viewers want more movies than they are getting from conventional distributors, the movement will eventually reach about four dozen cities where black-oriented festivals have been gaining strength, even as black film languishes in the studio world.
Speaking over espresso and hot chocolate at the Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills last week, Ms. DuVernay, 38, who helped market studio films like ''Dreamgirls'' and ''Invictus,'' described the new alliance, which she organized, as being less a business than a ''call to action.''
Those who make specifically black-theme movies, she said, should realize that ''no one is ever going to care about their film except the people it's made for, which is, black folks.''
According to a 2009 survey of moviegoing compiled for the Motion Picture Association of America, African-Americans, about 12 percent of the North American population, accounted for only 11 percent of ticket sales and less than 9 percent of frequent moviegoers. (By contrast, Hispanics, who make up 15 percent of the population, bought 21 percent of tickets, according to the study.)
By some accounts, that is because the black film world is shrinking.
Stacy Spikes, a former Miramax Films executive who is the founder and chief executive of the Urbanworld festival, is one of several executives who said the distribution of black-theme films began to evaporate in the last five years. That happened, he said, as New Line Cinema, Warner Independent Pictures, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and other companies that had specialized in midbudget comedies and dramas shrank or disappeared.
''There's a breakdown in distribution, especially at the indie level, for things like this,'' Mr. Spikes said of films whose primary audience is black.
Films in a long-running Tyler Perry series have continued to do well -- Mr. Perry's ''Why Did I Get Married Too?'' brought in $60 million in domestic ticket sales for Lionsgate last year, and was the best-performing black-theme film of 2010. For the most part, though, movies by black filmmakers with a largely black cast barely registered at the box office.
As recently as 2002, the success of ''Barbershop,'' which cost a little more than $10 million to make and took in nearly $76 million at the domestic box office for MGM, seemed to point toward a resurgence in black-theme films. Chris McGurk, who was then vice chairman of MGM, even tried to position the studio as a gathering point for black filmmakers.
But the strategy faltered, Mr. McGurk said, as costs rose, and black-theme films, which generally underperform in foreign markets, outgrew their niche. ''The economics of that business really only work if you're able to produce them for $10 million or less,'' he explained.
Told of Ms. DuVernay's new alliance, Mr. McGurk, who is now the chief executive of Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corporation, said, ''They're doing the right thing.'' Low budgets and precise marketing, he said, are critical to reviving the genre.
Others warn that great passion and a festival network cannot match the power of a well-heeled studio distribution mechanism. And Ms. DuVernay acknowledges that her alliance can do little more than get a picture on screens; turning a profit will depend on what happens to a film at additional theaters and in home entertainment markets after its brief introduction.
Still, Mr. Spikes said, filmmakers and studios could learn something from glad-handing politicians, who have long used networking and physical presence to build support. Films distributed by the new alliance, he said, will be backed by directors and stars who are willing ''to go on the road and do that heavy-lifting'' with festival-style appearances at screenings.
As opportunity diminished in feature films, Mr. Spikes noted, black actors and filmmakers -- like more than a few white counterparts -- have turned increasingly to television. He cited Regina King, who plays the detective Lydia Adams on ''Southland,'' as someone who was once better known for her work in feature films like ''Boyz N the Hood,'' ''Poetic Justice'' and ''How Stella Got Her Groove Back.''
Yet this year's Sundance Film Festival has a strong run of work by black filmmakers, including ''Pariah,'' about the struggles of a Bronx teenager, from the writer and director Dee Rees, and ''Gun Hill Road,'' another Bronx tale, written and directed by Rashaad Ernesto Green.
John Cooper, the Sundance festival's director, said his programmers had not consciously reached for black-centered films but came up with a bumper crop anyway. ''It's almost natural selection,'' Mr. Cooper said. He noted, however, that almost all of those films arrived without distributors.
When Sundance gets under way in Park City, Utah, on Jan. 20, Ms. DuVernay said she would be there to introduce her alliance with a couple of filmmaker dinners. And she applauds Mr. Cooper for having put the spotlight on at least a dozen black-theme pictures at this year's event.
''I'm calling it Blackdance,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ava DuVernay at a screening of her film ''I Will Follow,'' which will be the first to benefit from a campaign to widen the distribution of black-theme films. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUGH HAMILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Salli Richardson-Whitfield and Omari Hardwick in ''I Will Follow.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIDNEY BALDWIN)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (93%); FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TICKET SALES (71%); MOVIE THEATERS (57%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

 
