

401 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Spending Bill Feared Likely to Repeat 1998 Fiasco

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
Congress tells itself year after year to craft a budget carefully and stick to it when spending the tax money Americans send in. Last year, it failed miserably, but this year could be worse, many members say.
No one wants a repeat of October's fiasco -- a last-minute bill, 4,000 pages long, lashed together in secret, larded with $21 billion of extra "emergency" money and approved without anyone actually having read more than a handful of pages. 
 But no one knows precisely how to avoid it.
"They know there's a disaster coming," says a senior House Republican staff member. "They just want it to be magically solved."
Representative David R. Obey, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, put it plainly: "We are in never-never land."
This is the lay of that land: The Republican Congress, meeting its deadline for the second time in a quarter-century, gave final approval to a $1.75 trillion budget plan on Thursday. (Think of a dollar as a second. One million seconds is less than 12 days; 1.75 trillion seconds is about 57,000 years.)
Most of the $1.75 trillion goes to mandatory programs like Medicare, Social Security and interest on the debt. That leaves about $537 billion. The Pentagon will take more than half of that.
What remains is roughly $246 billion in the Republican budget plan to run the Government -- about $37 billion less than this year. Expressed as a percentage of the American economy, this spending is at its lowest in 37 years. It works out to about $2.50 a day for every American.
This frugality was enacted into law in the landmark balanced-budget agreement reached between President Clinton and Republicans in 1997. Together they created spending caps to restrict the budget.
"We intend to stay within the caps," Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said on Thursday. "That was a promise we made to the American people." The President and his party also pledged to keep the caps.
That promise will be hard to keep. There has been a good deal of dissembling about this. Mr. Obey said he had seen fellow members of Congress "tell the President the caps should be raised, and then go out of the White House, look at the cameras and say the caps have to be kept."
The caps require cuts in spending, and thus a consensus on what to cut. None exists now. No consensus, no spending bill; no bill, no way out of another ugly debacle, some members say.
If such a spectacle occurs again, it could cost House Republicans control of the House next year, said Representative Sonny Callahan, the Alabama Republican who heads the Appropriations subcommittee for foreign operations.
Mr. Callahan, whose conservative credentials are paid in full, said the greatest challenge to consensus comes from the right. "Some of our own people, who dislike one percent of the bill, will vote against it all" on principle, he said. "If we have members of our own party who are willing to stop the machine for some minor issue, the Democrats will win. It's up to us, if we want to maintain a majority."
With the memory of last year's spending disaster still fresh, "there's hardly a member of Congress that doesn't realize the caps will be lifted," Representative John Edward Porter, the Illinois Republican who heads the Appropriations subcommittee for Federal labor, health and education programs.
His Appropriations Committee colleague, Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York, agrees. "The question is not if, but when," she said.
But the extra money has to come from somewhere, and no one agrees where that might be. Republican leaders have pledged to cut taxes sharply and spend billions more on the Pentagon. This lacks a certain "political reality," said Jim Dyer, staff director of the Appropriations Committee.
In fact, Republicans who want to spend billions more on the military than even their own budget writers propose may have a golden opportunity, come Tuesday. The White House wants a $6 billion supplement to this year's budget to pay for American involvement in NATO's war in Kosovo, and some Republicans want to add as much as $14 billion more -- not for the war, but for the national arsenal. The money could come from "offsets" -- in plain English, cuts -- in domestic programs from food stamps to Federal medical research.
But "there's no way we can find offsets for the Kosovo bill," Mr. Callahan said. "It's got to come out of the surplus." But most, if not all, of this year's surplus is supposed to be devoted to Social Security.
These are the kinds of conundrums faced under the caps.
Mr. Dyer said Congress "can gimmick and trick" its way around the caps, which he called "basically numbers picked out of the air." Or, he said, "we can use or abuse the emergency declarations. And there are taxes and fees we can impose." Or Republicans and Democrats can fall off the wagon and drink deeply from the surplus, which next year will come exclusively from excess Social Security revenue.
None of that is palatable. And Republicans do not want another Government shutdown like the one that began in December 1995, which they think also cost them political capital.
But "without some decisions from the leadership, and without a new deal between Congress and the White House on tax cuts and spending caps, we are heading for the same disaster as last year," a senior Republican staff member said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALABAMA REPUBLICAN (64%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); MEDICARE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM DAVE OBEY (59%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



402 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: COALITION TOPPLES IN INDIA, DEFEATED BY JUST ONE VOTE

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 17

 BODY:
The Hindu nationalist-led Government that turned India into a declared nuclear power collapsed today. It lost a vote of confidence by 269 to 270, the narrowest parliamentary defeat for a government in independent India's 51-year history.
The opposition Congress Party, led by Sonia Gandhi, the Italian-born widow of an assassinated Prime Minister, will now try to cobble together a new government coalition. 
 Within hours of the vote, India's President accepted the resignation of Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, but asked him to stay on as a caretaker while efforts to form a new government go forward.
Leaders of the Congress Party, which has dominated Indian politics for most of the last half century, said they would immediately begin talking to other political parties with the aim of forming India's sixth national government in a politically turbulent three years.
Mrs. Gandhi, president of the Congress Party and heir to the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, greeted thousands of well-wishers at her home. They showered her with red rose petals, garlanded her with marigolds and danced on the tops of their cars.
But Mrs. Gandhi, who drew huge and ecstatic crowds when she campaigned across India in the last election but who has drawn some criticism for her foreign birth, made no comment about whether she will seek to become the next Prime Minister. Several party leaders credited her with rebuilding the party and said they hoped she would head a new government.
"Under the leadership of Soniaji, the shape and structure of the alternative government will be decided in consultation with the Congress Working Committee," said the Congress Party spokesman, Arjun Singh.
Shaken by the prospect of more political instability, the Bombay stock exchange's sensitive index plunged 7 percent after the confidence vote. It was unclear what impact the change of government will have on the modest steps taken recently by India, a nation of 980 million people, to open its economy, lower trade barriers and build better ties with Pakistan and the United States.
The past year marked the Hindu nationalists' first real taste of power. For decades, they had been unable to challenge the Congress Party's dominance. And as champions of the idea that India was fundamentally a Hindu nation and culture, they had been seen as antithetical to the country's secular traditions and dangerous to religious minorities, particularly Muslims.
The party has come under fire over the last year as attacks on India's small Christian minority climbed. Those attacks, opposition leaders contended, were incited by associates of the party, a charge it denied.
In laying out his Government's record today, Mr. Vajpayee, 72, touted its decision to conduct nuclear tests in the Pokhran desert and develop a full-fledged nuclear deterrent, as well as its efforts to build closer ties with Pakistan.
In February, Mr. Vajpayee took a much-heralded bus trip to Lahore, Pakistan, to meet with Pakistan's Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, and to discuss the core issues that divide them. The two nations have fought three wars since independence.
India's nuclear tests last May inspired Pakistan to respond with its own nuclear tests and stirred international fears that the two nations would soon be engaged in an arms race. This week, India and Pakistan conducted tit-for-tat tests of ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear weapons more than 1,000 miles.
"Our Pokhran tests and my bus trip to Lahore are two sides of the same coin," Mr. Vajpayee said.
His Government had a very rocky year in power as it struggled to hold its fractious coalition together. It was particularly plagued by the threats of its largest coalition partner -- a party from the state of Tamil Nadu that has 18 votes and is led by the flamboyant Jayalalitha Jayaram -- to quit the Government. This week, Jayalalitha, who is known here by her first name, went through with her threat, depriving the Government of its majority and forcing the confidence vote.
The capital's political class -- or chatterati, as they call themselves -- has not yet begun its post-mortems on the Government, or attempted to fathom the impact of its fall on the crucial questions of governance. Rather, the hot topics today were the horse-trading and political intrigue that came with this test of the Government's majority.
Politics here in the world's largest democracy is "a game of numbers," Mr. Vajpayee said in his address to Parliament today. His Government believed Friday night that it had the votes to win. But it received several nasty surprises today when members of Parliament pushed the buttons on their electronic voting machines, with the most devastating one delivered by a small party with a grudge against the Bharatiya Janata Party.
Mayawati, who heads the Bahujan Samaj Party, which draws its support from lower caste people, had declared Friday that the five members she controlled would abstain, rather than oppose the Government. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders rejoiced.
But her promise was a ruse. Still furious about what she believed was the Hindu nationalists' betrayal of her party in the state of Uttar Pradesh in 1997, when the two parties were part of the same coalition, Mayawati -- who like many lower caste women goes by one name -- got her revenge by voting against the Government today.
It was appropriately symbolic that a low-caste woman should have dealt the blow that helped bring down the Government. It is in large part the upsurge of political participation by restive lower and middle castes, as well as regional parties, that has shaken the foundations of Indian politics. Their rising power helped undo the dominance of Congress, once the umbrella party that sheltered Brahmins and untouchables, Muslims and Hindus, political scientists say.
The Government had only a year to try to build a record, not the five years it had hoped for. Mr. Vajpayee, who insisted his Government had safeguarded people of all faiths, said in interviews he gave after a year in office that the precariousness of the coalition had made the job of governing very difficult. "I have been trying to meet the challenges, but at almost every step I have had to compromise," he told one journalist.
Now, the diverse opposition parties will try to put together their own coalition. To obtain a majority, they may well have to include the mercurial Jayalalitha, whose unmanageable demands brought an end to the current Government. The chatterati here say that even if the Congress Party succeeds in forming a government, it will likely face many of the same problems as the Government it just ousted. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS PARTY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS PARTY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%); RESIGNATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA; GANDHI, SONIA; VAGPAYEE, BEHARI (PRIME MIN) SONIA GANDHI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



403 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Tribe in Utah Fights for Nuclear Waste Dump

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: SKULL VALLEY GOSHUTE RESERVATION, Utah, April 14

 BODY:
The desert here is silent, but for birdsong and wind. The vegetation is springtime green, the mountaintops covered with snow for the next month or so, and all is still except for the jack rabbits, hawks and occasional antelope, and a rare car on the two-lane blacktop road. But this is a rough neighborhood, environmentally speaking.
Behind the Stansbury mountains, which are the only source of potable water here, the Deseret Chemical Depot holds half the nation's chemical weapons and an incinerator. 
 To the north, a magnesium factory has let clouds of chlorine gas loose into the reservation's air. To the northwest, a private company buries low-level nuclear waste under a license obtained after the operator gave gold coins and a condominium to a state environmental regulator. Three sites nearby store toxic chemicals.
To the southwest, the Army tests protective gear for chemical and biological warfare at the Dugway Proving Ground. And to the west, the Air Force trains F-16 pilots, who sometimes crash.
The reservation could also provide storage for more than half the nation's civilian nuclear waste, says the tiny Skull Valley Band of the Goshute. The tribe has signed a 50-year lease with eight electric companies, led by Northern States Power Company of Minnesota and including Consolidated Edison Company of New York, to use 840 of the reservation's 18,000 acres for storage.
The tribal chairman, Leon D. Bear, argues that the project is safe and that his tribe is using its last asset, its land, to assure its preservation.
But Governor Michael O. Leavitt, who grew up downwind of atmospheric nuclear tests, says he will do whatever it takes to stop the plan.
"I have seen with my eyes the effects of radioactive material," Governor Leavitt said. "I had friends in childhood die, farmers lose herds of sheep only to be told by the Federal Government, it must have been something they ate."
The Skull Valley Band has about 120 members ( depending on who is counting), half of them adults, but only 24 people live here, about 50 miles west of Salt Lake City. Nuclear waste could bring the others back, Mr. Bear said.
"It's because of the economics, that's why people left," he said. "There's nothing there for them."
The waste storage site, which would be a concrete pad covered with concrete silos, surrounded by a barbed-wire fence, would produce 40 or 50 permanent jobs, Mr. Bear said, for guards, technicians and administrative workers.
Today, a plant on the reservation that tests rocket motors employs a few tribal members as security guards. A tribally owned convenience store sells gas, six kinds of beef jerky and beaded knickknacks, but most of its shelves are empty.
The "village" area, overlooking where the waste would go, is a rundown collection of sheds, shacks, trailers, campers and weather-beaten homes, some abandoned; rusting hulks of cars and farm equipment dot the area. Here, the utilities would pay rent, perhaps millions of dollars a year.
For all their wants, the Goshutes are a sovereign tribe. So the state cannot veto the project, which will begin accepting waste in 2002 if the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which begins hearings later this year, grants a license. The commission has already licensed similar arrangements near reactors, and opponents, who include some tribal members, think it will do so here.
Margene Bullcreek, who lives on the reservation, argued that the lease should have been put to a vote of all the adults, not just those who came to a small meeting where it was approved. Calling the waste dangerous and inconsistent with traditional respect for the land, her faction is asking the Interior Department to overturn the Bureau of Indian Affairs' approval of the lease.
"We need to fall back on who we really are and what we really want," Ms. Bullcreek said. "This is where wisdom comes in. It wouldn't be wisdom if we go for the money.
"It's really pretty down there," she said. "It's not a desert. There are deer in the mountains, eagles, badgers, raccoons, foxes."
 Other members of the tribe see it differently. "It's just land; it just kind of sits here," said Mary Allen, vice chairwoman of the tribe.
Ms. Allen accompanied a reporter past the long row of wood stakes that mark where an access road to the storage site would be built. "What can we do with this?" she said. "There's no water out here."
Dianne R. Nielson, executive director of the state Department of Environmental Quality, said, "Outsiders may say it's in the middle of nowhere, but in fact it's in the middle of everything."
What would happen, Ms. Nielson asked, if an earthquake hit the area and released some nerve gas, and forced an evacuation? A leak of radioactive material at the same time could block people fleeing the area, she said.
Utah took over the paved road from Tooele County and, near the beginning of the 27-mile route from Interstate 80 down to the reservation, erected a highway sign that says, "High Level Nuclear Waste Prohibited." Then the state seized from the county two dirt roads that run near the reservation, effectively blocking the utilities from crossing the roads with a railroad spur to the site.
The roads, officially designated as "highways that serve a compelling statewide public safety interest," thus became the only unpaved highways in Utah.
Mr. Leavitt has vowed to build "a moat" of state-owned land to prevent waste from coming in. Mr. Bear said if so, his people would be the first desert tribe to learn to swim.
The state fears that once the waste gets here, it will never go away.
In theory, storage here would be "interim," until the Energy Department prepares a burial spot. All reactor operators signed contracts with the department in the mid-1980's and paid it fees. In return, the department was to begin taking waste deliveries in January 1998 for disposal. Now the department says it will begin taking the waste in 2010, at the earliest, if Yucca Mountain, near Las Vegas, Nev., can be shown to be suitable. By that time, some reactors expect to be out of storage. Minnesota's Legislature, for example, has limited Northern States Power's construction of silos in Red Wing, Minn.
What would happen to the waste at the end of the 50-year lease?
"The Government is eventually going to want to bury it where it is collected," predicted Arjun Makhijani, president of the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, of Takoma Park, Md.
"The Department of Energy never met a repository location it didn't like," Mr. Makhijani said. "Once you take all the trouble of taking the waste to a certain place, I have a sneaking suspicion they will find geological virtues nobody knew existed," and try to bury the waste there.
Mr. Bear insisted that if the tribe wanted it moved, the utilities would have to take it away: "Do you think they would relinquish it to a bunch of Indians? I don't think so."
But Mr. Leavitt said that wherever the wastes are now, they are better off there. "The nature of technological life is that we all have to live with the rule, 'If you create waste, you take care of it,' " he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The chairman of the Skull Valley Band, Leon D. Bear, near a sign using an old spelling of Goshute, supports a nuclear waste repository. The Skull Valley Band of the Goshute Tribe in Utah has signed a 50-year lease with eight electric companies to store high-level nuclear waste on its reservation. A sign near the reservation says such waste is banned. (Photographs by George Frey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XEL (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC (67%); XCEL ENERGY INC (67%); US AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; SKULL VALLEY GOSHUTE RESERVATION (UTAH); UNITED STATES (95%); UTAH, USA (95%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES; GOSHUTE INDIANS HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); MAMMALS (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); ARMIES (77%); AIR FORCES (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); COINS & COINAGE (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); CHLORINE (71%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MILITARY TRAINING (68%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; BEAR, LEON D; LEAVITT, MICHAEL O (GOV) MICHAEL O LEAVITT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



404 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Archeology Find: Capital's Best Little Brothel

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
Enough of "Monica's Story." Archeologists digging in the Mall have happened upon the historically tantalizing story of Mary Ann Hall, a determined 20-something who built and managed one of this city's finest 19th-century bordellos.
The three-story brick house of the entrepreneurial Ms. Hall flourished for four decades just down from Capitol Hill -- a monument, in its way, to capital power and sex but also to a level of discretion that seems rare in modern Washington. 
 "She was obviously a successful, independent woman and she clearly maintained connections throughout her life," Donna J. Seifert, an archeologist who unearthed the dregs of Ms. Hall's brothel -- champagne bottles and gilt dinnerware shards -- said in a recent interview. It is now a grassy stretch of the Mall where the Smithsonian Institution's new National Museum of the American Indian is to be built beginning in September, immediately east of the Air and Space Museum.
"Unfortunately we never found her little black book," said Elizabeth Barthold O'Brien, an archeology historian, who also worked on the dig three years ago and co-wrote an archeological report with Ms. Seifert that amounts to a new chapter in the underlife of historic Washington.
Without impeaching a soul in retrospect, Ms. O'Brien and Ms. Seifert documented through city and court records Ms. Hall's place in Washington life and how she profited elegantly near the Capitol in an era when lawmakers lived more of the bachelor's life and the lobbying arts included what historians say were the services of prostitutes.
It was a moralizing era, as ever in Washington, but Ms. Hall and her employees never came close to entry on the police blotter, even as hundreds of streetwalkers and prostitutes in shoddier houses were written up routinely as nuisances, despite the legality of prostitution. Rather, Ms. O'Brien found Ms. Hall listed on city records as an upstanding taxpayer as her property value compounded over the years.
The doughty madam stood out as the rare woman who became wealthy across the go-go years of the Civil War. Far from any whiff of Brothelgate, she succeeded scandal-free at a time before houses of prostitution were banned here in 1914 in a wave of civic righteousness.
"Mary Hall was the antithesis of all the moralizing warnings of her day," Ms. O'Brien said. "She lived a long life, made a lot of money, and left a gorgeous grave." Her towering stone memorial in the once-rural Congressional Cemetery, a mile southeast of the Capitol, and just down from a phalanx of smaller stones of departed lawmakers, depicts a beautiful young woman wistfully pondering life's passage.
"I pored over tons of documents, but Mary Hall remains a mystery," said Ms. O'Brien, speaking of such unanswered questions as how the young woman found the money and pluck for her enterprise.
The two researchers tracked a good deal of lost information but found no photograph of Ms. Hall. She maintained a classic "parlor house," their report concludes, a sanctuary where "men of wealth and distinction" were wined, dined and sexually served by women "noted for their youth, beauty and social refinement."
Ultimately, Ms. Hall rented her property to a women's health clinic in her retirement years, about 10 years before she died. This was when prominent Washington women had begun crusading openly in behalf of their "fallen sisters."
"Respectable women bravely introduced Washingtonians to the novel concept that some women turned to prostitution by necessity rather than choice," the archeology report notes of days when cities were largely devoid of economic opportunities for single women.
Ms. Hall's death in 1886 at the age of 71 brought on a court fight by siblings over her fortune and an obituary in The Washington Evening Star that praised her civic integrity and "a heart ever open to appeals of distress." Finding the old litigation record, Ms. O'Brien discovered the contents of Ms. Hall's top-of-the-line brothel, from expensive Brussels carpets to suites of red-plush furniture.
"Her memory will be kept green by many who knew her sterling worth," the obituary concluded. But her memory, as with the dust of her myriad clients, was well faded until the researchers dug into the history of the proposed construction site, as required by Federal preservation laws. Their report was entered into the archives without fanfare in this city of endless homage and ceremony for the more idealized aspects of Americana.
The archeologists found no mention of Mary Ann Hall in history books. But they uncovered bureaucratic records of her bordello in a day when "prostitute" was an accepted occupation in the Federal census. Ms. Hall's house at 349 Maryland Avenue, with 18 "inmates" and fine food and furnishings, was rated at the top of the list of 450 brothels catalogued by the Federal Provost Marshal's office in 1862, when the city teemed with transient men, encamped soldiers and an estimated 5,000 prostitutes.
Her house stood out in what was then the city's tenderloin, dubbed "Louse Alley," a canal-laced warren adjacent to the sprawling "Hooker's Division" neighborhood -- a popular word-play on Gen. Joseph Hooker, whose Union troops bivouacked on the future Mall and patronized local prostitutes.
In undertaking the assignment to research the construction site for John Milner Associates, historic research specialists, Ms. Seifert and Ms. O'Brien delved into a time when sex and politics seemed to have been a far less public sensation than has lately been the case.
"I thought, what's going on here?" Ms. Seifert related when Ms. Hall's old garbage dig yielded masses of corks, bottles and broken plates of long-ago revels, giving her the first clue to the human endeavors that had taken place there. By coincidence, she had previously researched the underpinnings of the new Ronald Reagan Building to the west, near the White House, and there, too, found a brothel's remains.
A muckraking book from 1883, "Mysteries and Miseries of America's Great Cities," told of the finest prostitutes being employed by corporate lobbyists to influence legislation. "The type of house she ran, as well as its proximity to the Capitol, would certainly have made it a possibility," the archeological report carefully concluded.
Ms. Hall managed an "upper-ten" establishment -- a 19th-century New York term for the very best in private trysting places. Ms. O'Brien diligently searched criminal court records for any charges against Ms. Hall but all she found was mention of an angry defendant demanding to know why the authorities never troubled Ms. Hall's house.
"There's some evidence that women came and left with Congress," Ms. Seifert said, suggesting a certain seasonal aspect to the life of democracy. "It was just treated as part of the way things were," she said of the fact of prostitution and the corollary notion of the time "that men couldn't really be expected to control their sexual appetites."
In the scandal-weary eyes of modern Washington, there may be particular relief in the fact that the researchers uncovered no profiteering kiss-and-tell narratives about this buried part of Washington's past.
"Mary Ann Hall's brothel was a large and prosperous household that offered material comforts to its inmates and guests and made Hall a wealthy woman," the researchers concluded with all the sensibility of the departed madam.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Ann Hall, a 19th-century madam, kept her silence in the Congressional Cemetery. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Map of Washington D.C. shows location of the archaeological dig: Mary Ann Hall operated a brothel in the shadow of the Capitol. (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (WASHINGTON, DC); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN WASHINGTON LIFE (54%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (WASHINGTON, DC); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (83%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; HISTORY; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; PROSTITUTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CONGRESSIONAL CEMETERY (WASHINGTON, DC); NATIONAL MALL (WASHINGTON, DC) ARCHAEOLOGY (96%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (95%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PROSTITUTION (90%); HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); WOMEN (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: HALL, MARY ANN (D1886); O'BRIEN, ELIZABETH BARTHOLD; SEIFERT, DONNA J; CLINES, FRANCIS X MARY ANN HALL (95%); ELIZABETH BARTHOLD O'BRIEN (82%); DONNA J SEIFERT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



405 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Edith Anderson, 83, Chronicler of Life in East Germany, Dies

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin. She was 83.
Ms. Anderson, whose last name was originally Handelsman, had returned to Berlin on April 7 after two weeks in New York to promote her new book, "Love in Exile," published in March by Steerforth Press of South Royalton, Vt. 
 The product of decades of reminiscences, journalism and correspondence, the book traces Ms. Anderson's odyssey from a conservative Jewish upbringing in the Bronx, to a stint at the Communist newspaper Daily Worker, to encounters with Richard Wright, Simone de Beauvoir, Anna Seghers, Stefan Heym and other literati. She also wrote of her consuming romance with Max Schroeder, a surrealist poet, editor and antifascist whom she married and followed from his wartime exile in New York back to Soviet-controlled East Germany in 1947.
"Love in Exile" has been hailed by Grace Paley, Doris Lessing and Vivian Gornick, among other writers, as a sharp and gripping portrait of an ideological and human landscape as foreign to today's Americans as the dark side of the moon. A review in The New York Times Book Review found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
In an early section, she described how she landed her job at The Daily Worker in 1942, when she was 26.
"Hastening down Broadway to my Marxist analyst who charged only $5 a session because I was unemployed (he too was still young) I bumped into a former college crony named Milton. He hailed me joyously. 'You're just the person I need!' He told me he was cultural editor of The Daily Worker but had just been drafted into the Army and must find a replacement by the weekend."
She was overwhelmed. She would scrub floors at The Daily Worker. But she had no newspaper experience. She wrote:
" 'I'll break you in,' he said.
" 'In three days?
" 'Less.' "
She asked herself how she had the nerve to pass herself off as cultural editor. "My analyst brushed these scruples aside. He was delighted that I had a real challenge to bite into; life, as Marx said, was a struggle and I was no more a fraud than anyone else."
Still, she was soon dismissed and ended up as one of the women on train crews hired to replace men called to war. Shortly afterward, she met Mr. Schroeder, a craggy and mesmerizing onetime bohemian 17 years her senior. He had escaped from Nazi captivity in Vichy, France, and was editing an anti-fascist publication in New York.
After he returned to Germany in 1946, she followed the next year, via Paris, after almost joining the American Army in a desperate effort to enter restricted Berlin at a time when almost everyone there would have given anything to get out. She was to remain, with only intermittent visits home, for the next 52 years, although her husband died in 1958. They had a daughter, Cordelia, who still lives in Berlin.
In "Love in Exile," Ms. Anderson said that as a widow she considered returning to the United States with her daughter but was deterred by the imagined voice of Max: "What right have you to deprive her of the Socialism for which so many people died or went into exile? It may be imperfect but something can be made of it." The book ends in 1962.
Although clearly enamored of Marxism since youth, Ms. Anderson was not overtly political, said her childhood friend, the writer Helen Yglesias, a classmate at James Monroe High School in the Bronx. "She was highly sympathetic to Max's idealism and his hope that a just society could be built," she said.
But she was a sharp and often corrosive chronicler of the death throes of the German Democratic Republic as Communism collapsed and the Berlin Wall fell in 1989: "a kaleidoscope rolling downhill," as she described it.
In an account of the final days, later included in an anthology, "Without Force or Lies" (1990), she wrote of traveling through East Germany in a train compartment with her grandson and watching a young man and woman, strangers, suddenly shed their inhibitions and take up the taboo subject of politics.
The man, agitated, ripped off his tie, warning that East Germans "had just about had it," she wrote.
" 'I give it one more year before something busts,' he said.
" 'Six months,' she replied."
Her grandson grew alarmed and Ms. Anderson sought to calm him. "But I felt my own scalp creep, as if some law of nature had had broken, a sheep instead of baaing shouted in a human voice, 'Enough!'
"The young woman had hit it right on the nose: six months. The unthinkable happened here."
At the same time, Ms. Anderson also wrote acidly of the former West Germans "tramping around" the prostrate east, flooding it with inferior "Western goods."
Edith Handelsman grew up on Hoe Avenue in the Bronx and graduated in 1937 from New College, a division of Teachers College at Columbia University. In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a brother, John Bernard Handelsman of Hampton Bays, N.Y., a cartoonist at The New Yorker, and a grandson.
Besides her memoir, Ms. Anderson also wrote "Gelbes Licht" ("Yellow Light") in 1956 about her railroad work, and short stories, children's books and radio plays. A play, "Wo Ist Katalin? ("Where Is Katalin?"), was produced in Weimar in 1977. From 1960 to 1977 she was the Berlin correspondent for The New York National Guardian.
Mr. Handelsman said that on her recent book-promotion visit to New York, his sister seemed confused and forgetful, possibly presaging her fatal stroke.
But Ms. Anderson's literary agent, Malaga Baldi of Manhattan, said any infirmities disappeared at a reading the author gave at the New School for Social Research on March 25.
"She started to read an excerpt," Ms. Baldi said, "but the people would not let her stop."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edith Anderson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STEERFORTH PRESS LC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



406 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 6547 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE ROAD TO WAR -- A special report.;
How a President, Distracted by Scandal, Entered Balkan War

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
On Jan. 19, President Clinton's top aides met in the Situation Room in the White House basement to hear a fateful new plan for an autonomous Kosovo from Madeleine K. Albright, the Secretary of State. NATO, she urged, should use the threat of air strikes on Yugoslavia to force a peace agreement to be monitored by the alliance's ground troops.
The President, who had other matters on his mind, was not there. His lawyers were starting their arguments on the Senate floor against his removal from office. That night he was to deliver his State of the Union address. 
 Nearly 5,000 miles away, in Belgrade, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the NATO commander, and Gen. Klaus Naumann, chairman of the NATO military council, were sitting with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. They came brandishing a plastic portfolio of color photographs documenting a massacre of Albanians three days earlier by Serbian security forces in the Kosovo town of Racak. They also came with threats of NATO air strikes.
This was far from their first encounter with the Serbian leader, but this time, they recalled, they found a newly hardened man with a bunker mentality.
"This was not a massacre," Mr. Milosevic shouted. "This was staged. These people are terrorists."
When General Clark warned him that NATO would "start telling me to move aircraft," Mr. Milosevic appeared infuriated by the prospect of bombings. He called the general a war criminal.
Jan. 19 is already seen as a pivotal day in the Clinton Presidency. But it may turn out to be so less for the Senate impeachment hearings and State of the Union address than for the moves toward war over Kosovo.
Kosovo would have presented a daunting foreign policy challenge even to a President whose powers of persuasion and moral authority had not been damaged by a year of sex scandal and impeachment.
It is unclear whether the President's decisions on Kosovo would have been any different if he had not been distracted by his own political and legal problems. But it is clear that his troubles gave him less maneuvering room to make his decisions. Diplomacy that came to rely heavily on military threats reduced the wiggle room even further.
Over the previous year, sharp criticism and questioning of Mr. Clinton's motives arose each time he did take military action, as with the strikes in December against Iraq when the House was poised to vote on his impeachment.
Now, Mr. Clinton is facing mounting criticism for not having acted earlier or more decisively on Kosovo. His critics say that had he done so, Mr. Milosevic would not have been able to move troops and equipment into Kosovo and carry out the massive "ethnic cleansing" of the past four weeks.
As the President viewed the situation, there were only "a bunch of bad options" confronting him, he said earlier this month.
Throughout, the NATO allies hoped, even assumed, that they were dealing with the Milosevic who negotiated the Bosnian peace at Dayton, Ohio, the man who lied and manipulated and ranted in all-night, Scotch-laden negotiations and then cut a deal in the morning when he saw that it was in his interest. Instead they were dealing with the Milosevic of Belgrade, who was willing to employ mass murder to assure his continued dominance of Serbia.
George J. Tenet, the Director of Central Intelligence, predicted in Congressional testimony in February that there would be a major spring offensive by the Serbs in Kosovo and huge refugee flows. But intelligence assessments presented to Mr. Clinton about how Mr. Milosevic would respond to NATO threats of military force were vague. These reports included speculation that the Yugoslav leader would back down in the face of air strikes.
One interagency intelligence report coordinated by the C.I.A. in January 1999, for example, concluded that "Milosevic doesn't want a war he can't win."
"After enough of a defense to sustain his honor and assuage his backers he will quickly sue for peace," the assessment went on. Another interagency report in February stated, "He doesn't believe NATO is going to bomb."
Prodded by such assessments and his advisers, the President pressed ahead with a strategy of threats coupled with negotiations, gambling that Mr. Milosevic would back down. These threats quickly became a test of NATO's credibility, with the added onus of the alliance's looming 50th anniversary, which is to be observed next weekend.
Last September, former Senator Bob Dole went to Kosovo to gather facts for an international refugee group of which he is chairman. On his return, he reported his findings to Mr. Clinton. Afterward Mr. Clinton sat with him alone in the Oval Office and asked for his help in lobbying his former Senate colleagues to vote against conviction in the impeachment trial.
In an interview, Mr. Dole said he thought "a lot of attention was diverted" from Yugoslavia and other foreign policy issues by the impeachment. It was "all consuming," he added, and Kosovo "may have been one of the casualties."
 
The Dangers
A Balkan Firestorm That Slowly Spread
 From the moment Yugoslavia fell apart in 1991, Kosovo -- with its 90 percent ethnic Albanian population, and a Serbian minority that held its land sacred -- was viewed as a place from which a wider war could erupt. The Bush Administration, which had adopted a hands-off policy on the killings in Croatia and Bosnia, warned Mr. Milosevic on Dec. 29, 1992, that the United States was prepared to take unilateral military action if the Serbs sparked a conflict in Kosovo.
The Clinton Administration reiterated the warning weeks after the inauguration. Three years later, when the Administration convened the conference in Dayton to end the Bosnia war, Kosovo was not on the agenda.
"Bosnia was then the emergency, and it had to be stopped," said Richard C. Holbrooke, the American envoy who negotiated the agreement at Dayton, in an interview. "Otherwise there would have been a real risk that Bosnia would merge with Kosovo into a huge firestorm that would destabilize the whole region." Over the next two years, younger, more confrontational ethnic Albanians began to build a ragtag army, supplied with weapons from neighboring Albania and financed largely by the Albanian diaspora in Europe and the United States.
They faced serious obstacles. Mr. Milosevic, who had risen to power on the cause of protecting Kosovo's minority Serbs, took away Kosovo's broad autonomy in 1989 and was unlikely to give it back without a fight.
The killing in Kosovo began in earnest in February 1998, when the Serbs retaliated for rebel attacks on policemen with brutal operations of their own in the Drenica area. Members of the Kosovo Liberation Army and their families were slain.
The Administration sent Robert S. Gelbard, its envoy to the region, to confront Mr. Milosevic with horrific photographs of death and mutilation. A veteran State Department official respected for his tenacity but known for his temper, Mr. Gelbard had experience in Bosnia and Croatia. But he did not have much of a personal relationship with the Serbian leader, whom he castigated in unusually blunt language.
The Drenica killings, Mr. Gelbard felt, were the kind of ruthless act that would further radicalize the restive Albanian population and lead to an explosion that could affect the entire region.
"You have done more than anyone to increase the membership of the K.L.A.," Mr. Gelbard told Mr. Milosevic. "You are acting as if you were their secret membership chairman."
The meeting ended badly, American officials said. Mr. Milosevic was infuriated and would eventually refuse to meet with Mr. Gelbard at all.
 
The Distractions
Foreign Policy Crisis Comes at a Bad Time
 The eruption of violence in Kosovo in early 1998 could not have come at a more inopportune moment for the Clinton Administration.
The President and his aides were consumed by the Lewinsky affair. The Clinton foreign policy team was focused on Presidential visits to China and Africa and on Russia's economic implosion. Legislative electoral politics, especially with an incendiary sex scandal enveloping the White House, was never far from the President's concerns. And Kosovo did not register in any public opinion polls.
One of the President's political advisers said in an interview: "I hardly remember Kosovo in political discussions. It was all impeachment, impeachment, impeachment. There was nothing else."
Nonetheless, the spring of 1998 posed a question: Would the Administration, which had reaffirmed Mr. Bush's Christmas warning, take any action?
Weighing their options, officials said, they quickly ruled out unilateral military strikes, the very response Mr. Bush had promised. If anything was to be done, it would be in concert with the NATO allies, who along with America had troops on the ground as part of the international force in Bosnia. The United States could not start bombing while its allies were exposed in a neighboring country.
From then on, everything about Kosovo was subject to decisions by an alliance that worked by consensus and was soon to grow from 16 to 19 members.
Senior Administration officials who had lived through the years of delay and inaction in Bosnia believed they had learned a few things about how to deal with Mr. Milosevic. Diplomacy could work, but only if it was linked to the credible threat of force.
Ms. Albright began making the case for military action. At one key meeting in May, Mr. Gelbard argued that the time had come for air strikes.
Officials say Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser, was opposed. The United States could not threaten without being prepared to follow up with a specific action.
Mr. Gelbard replied that he had already worked out some bombing targets with the NATO commander, General Clark. But Mr. Berger rejected the plan and no one else in the room supported Mr. Gelbard, who declined to discuss his role, saying only, "When I had the lead role on Kosovo issues I had complete support from the President and the Secretary of State."
The Administration then turned to Mr. Holbrooke. He pressed the Kosovo Albanians' main political leader, Ibrahim Rugova, who was becoming increasingly marginalized in his own camp, to meet with Mr. Milosevic. The payoff for Mr. Rugova was a meeting with Mr. Clinton in the Oval Office on May 27.
In a brief conversation with the President and Vice President Al Gore, Mr. Rugova warned that without direct American intervention, Kosovo was headed for all-out war. He pleaded for urgent American action and an increased American presence to halt the escalating violence.
"We will not allow another Bosnia to happen in Kosovo," a senior Administration official quoted Mr. Clinton as telling Mr. Rugova. The assurances were largely theoretical. Nothing concrete was promised.
After Mr. Rugova presented the President with a gift of a large piece of quartz mined from Kosovo, Mr. Clinton spent part of their time together telling him about similar minerals in his home state of Arkansas.
The two men posed for a photo. The meeting received little press coverage.
 
The Options
From Cruise Missiles To a Force of 200,000
 There was plenty of other news in Washington that spring. Kenneth W. Starr's sex-and-lies inquiry was still preoccupying the White House. There were drawn-out court battles between the President's lawyers and Mr. Starr over whether senior Administration aides, a few of whom were involved in foreign policy issues, should be forced to testify before Mr. Starr's grand jury.
In June, with the six-nation Contact Group on the Balkans warning Mr. Milosevic that he could not count on the West's dithering on Kosovo as it had on Bosnia, NATO was ordered to draw up plans for military action. Mr. Milosevic promised concessions.
The American strategy seemed to be working.
The situation on the ground, however, was far from stable. The Albanian guerrillas used the early summer to take control of some 40 percent of Kosovo, and Mr. Milosevic responded with a major offensive.
NATO's military planners began weighing their options. These ranged from an attack involving only the firing of cruise missiles to a phased air campaign to deployment of peacekeeping troops as part of a negotiated or imposed settlement. The planners also looked at what it would take to invade Yugoslavia. Western officials said the numbers were staggering: As many as 200,000 soldiers would be needed for a ground war.
In a few months in the spring and summer of 1992, Bosnian Serb forces expelled hundreds of thousands of non-Serbs from their homes in Bosnia. In 1995, the Croats in Croatia drove more than 100,000 Serbs from their homes in just a few days.
Seven years later, officials said, no one planned for the tactic of population expulsion that has been the currency of Balkan wars for more than a century and that Mr. Milosevic adopted in Kosovo: the expulsion, this time within weeks, of hundreds of thousands of people.
"There were a lot of Milosevic watchers who said a few bombs might do it," a senior NATO official said. "What was not assumed, and not postulated, was that he would try to empty the country of its ethnic majority."
NATO officials were wrestling with several legal and political hurdles, officials disclosed. Some NATO members were worried about imposing a peace without the approval of the United Nations Security Council.
Alexander Vershbow, the United States representative to NATO and a former National Security Council aide who had been deeply involved in Bosnia policy, suggested an answer in a classified cable titled "Kosovo: Time for Another Endgame Strategy."
Mr. Vershbow's plan, officials said, arrived with a heavy political price tag: The possible dispatch of NATO soldiers just before a midterm election and in the midst of the impeachment fight.
The cable spelled out a plan to impose a political settlement in Kosovo with the cooperation of the Russians, longtime allies of the Serbs. Moscow and Washington would then go together to the Security Council.
"Kosovo endgame initiative could become a model of NATO-Russian cooperation," Mr. Vershbow wrote. "No kidding."
The proposed deal called for creation of an international protectorate in Kosovo. The settlement would be policed by an international military presence, or ground force. If a peace settlement was negotiated in advance, as many as 30,000 troops might be required to enforce it. But Mr. Vershbow also left open the possibility that NATO might have to impose a settlement without Belgrade's consent, requiring 60,000 troops. To help sell the idea in Congress, Mr. Vershbow said, the American contribution could be limited.
"Sooner or later we are going to face the issue of deploying ground forces in Kosovo," he wrote in his cable. "We have too much at stake in the political stability of the south Balkans to permit the conflict to fester much longer."
Beyond concerns about the American ground troops in Bosnia, there were fears that a Kosovo war could spread, and even engulf Greece and Turkey, both NATO members.
The cable landed in Washington on Aug. 7, the day bombs exploded outside the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. It was circulated as Mr. Clinton was preparing for his pivotal appearance before the grand jury investigating the Lewinsky affair and the White House was planning the cruise missile attack against Sudan and the Afghan bases of Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile suspected of directing the attacks.
The plan generated some interest among midlevel officials in Washington. Senior officials agreed that it underscored the need to come up with a comprehensive strategy. In the end nothing came of it.
Mr. Clinton was under attack for his grand jury testimony and faced questions about whether his military decisions were motivated by domestic politics.
Jokes about the movie "Wag the Dog" became commonplace. Fittingly, the President in the movie seeking to distract attention from a sex scandal stages an ersatz conflict in, of all places, Albania.
 
The Politics
No Will for Troops On Eve of Election
In Washington, impeachment was on Mr. Clinton's mind. Returning from a September visit to the region, Mr. Dole stopped in to see Mr. Clinton and Mr. Berger.
"The President listened carefully," Mr. Dole said in interview. "I don't recall him saying a great deal. He agreed it was terrible. Sandy Berger didn't say much, either." Then Mr. Berger left the room. "We discussed impeachment," Mr. Dole said. "This was a critical time in the Monica events."
Midterm elections were also at hand, and the Democrats were perceived to be on the run. Republicans fired another shot across Mr. Clinton's bow, warning against bombing Serbia.
"The Serbians have done what they wanted," Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader, said in an interview broadcast Oct. 4. "Now they're pulling back and now, only now what appears to be -- will be -- three weeks before an election, we're going to go in and bomb."
Senate Democrats were warning at the same time that they had little appetite for military involvement of any kind in Kosovo.
Senator Joseph R. Biden, the Delaware Democrat who favored action on Kosovo, said then that several Democratic colleagues approached him at a party caucus on Oct. 6 and said, "Don't count me in, Joe, don't count me in."
At the White House, the Democrats' leading Presidential contender for 2000, Vice President Gore, was keeping an eye on his own political future.
Officials say he supported air strikes in Kosovo but was careful to say little in meetings attended by large numbers of officials. His national security adviser, Leon Fuerth, prodded intelligence officials to scour the files for evidence that might implicate Mr. Milosevic in war crimes.
In October, the President outlined the plan for NATO air strikes in a letter to leading senators. The attacks, he said, would start out strong and "progressively expand in their scale and scope," especially if Mr. Milosevic and his forces remained in Kosovo.
"There will be no pinprick strikes," the President said in the letter.
NATO had agreed to the approach in a meeting of defense ministers in late September, in Vilamoura, Portugal. At the private meeting, William S. Cohen challenged his colleagues to embrace a new role for the alliance. If NATO could not muster a threat to Mr. Milosevic under these circumstances, he asked, what was the point of the alliance?
The Defense Secretary's toughened stance was striking. During the Bosnia crisis, he had assured his Congressional colleagues that American troops would be out of the region within 18 months.
There were limits. As Mr. Cohen made clear this week in Congressional testimony, his commitment was to air power, not the deployment of American soldiers on the battlefield. Questioned by the Senate Armed Services Committee as to why the United States did not field a credible ground threat last fall, he replied:
"At that time, you may recall there was great discontent up here on Capitol Hill. If I had come to you at that time and requested authorization to put a ground force in -- U.S., unilaterally, acting alone -- I can imagine the nature of the questions I would have received. You'd say, 'Well, No. 1, where are our allies? And No. 2, who's going to appropriate the money? No 3, how long do you intend to be there? How many? How long? How much? And what's the exit strategy?' "
The Secretary concluded, "And that would have been the extent of the debate and probably would have received an overwhelming rejection from the committee."
 
The First Deal
Bargain on Monitors Averts an Air Strike
 Despite the harsh words and warning to Mr. Milosevic in the fall of 1998, no one, either in the Administration or in NATO, was eager to use force against the Serbs. So the White House turned again to Mr. Holbrooke to broker a deal that would push the issue into the next year.
It was a tall order.
For Dayton, Mr. Holbrooke had softened up Mr. Milosevic for months in advance and had sensed that the Serbian leader wanted a deal. In Ohio, Mr. Milosevic gave up territory in Bosnia, which was a separate country, and ended a war that was costing Belgrade huge sums of money.
When it came to Kosovo, the American envoy was pushing Mr. Milosevic to loosen his grip on land in his own country, a hallowed battlefield on which Serbian soldiers died trying to repel a Turkish invasion six centuries ago.
His only inducement was the threat of air strikes.
Mr. Milosevic and Mr. Holbrooke talked for nine days, and when it was over, the Serbian leader had made some concessions, perhaps significant, but they were only loosely outlined.
He agreed to withdraw the bulk of his forces from Kosovo. He said he would permit 1,800 unarmed international inspectors to monitor the deal and would allow overflights by NATO spy planes.
A token number of Yugoslav officers were to be sent to the NATO air base at Vicenza, Italy, with an equally small number of NATO officers stationed inside Serbia's Defense Ministry.
There was a catch. Mr. Milosevic wanted the lifting of the NATO order that gave authority to launch strikes immediately. Mr. Holbrooke made no promises. But he headed to Brussels, where he summoned NATO representatives to a meeting to report that a deal was nearly clinched.
The representatives voted to suspend the order, not remove it, angering Mr. Milosevic.
In Belgrade the next day, Mr. Milosevic told Mr. Holbrooke he was enraged that the order had not been entirely lifted. "He considered it a declaration of war," said one American involved in the discussions.
President Clinton praised the deal as a triumph of force-backed diplomacy, saying it was the basis for a lasting peace. Mr. Milosevic, he said, has "agreed to internationally supervised democratic elections in Kosovo, substantial self-government and a local police -- in short, rights the Kosovars have been demanding since Mr. Milosevic stripped their autonomy a decade ago."
Within days, there were strong hints that Mr. Milosevic was not cowed. At a meeting in Belgrade to discuss implementing the agreement, General Clark asked him why some of the security forces covered by the agreement had not been withdrawn from Kosovo.
"That was not agreed," Mr. Milosevic shot back, according to an American official familiar with the conversation. "You call Holbrooke. He'll tell you what we agreed."
"No, I won't do that," replied General Clark, a veteran of hours of negotiations with Mr. Milosevic in Dayton. The general walked to a map to point out the locations of the brigades and battalions he wanted removed.
"We have no extra forces," Mr. Milosevic said. "NATO must do what it must do."
And then General Clark moved bluntly to the alliance's bottom line.
"Mr. President, get real," General Clark replied. "You don't really want to be bombed by NATO."
 
The Standoff
Deal With Milosevic Is Quickly Unhinged
 The October agreement quickly fell apart, and Western officials now acknowledge that the Serbs' preparations for a purge of Kosovo were evident in what they did and what they said.
According to NATO officials, the Serbs began infiltrating reinforcements and equipment in violation of the deal. Serbian officers bluntly told General Clark in October that they were just two weeks away from eliminating the Kosovo Liberation Army.
In January, the commander of the main military unit in Kosovo, Lieut. Gen. Dusan S. Smardzic, told local reporters that they could look forward to a "hot spring" in which the problems in the province would finally be resolved.
The Kosovo Albanian rebels were pushing ahead with their own war aims. Sensing that the deal essentially placed the world's most powerful military alliance on their side -- despite NATO's continued assurances that it did not want to become the guerrilla army's "air force" -- the rebels quickly reclaimed territory abandoned by the Serbian forces and mounted a continuous series of small-scale attacks. American intelligence officials warned Congress that the rebels were buying weapons, improving their training and becoming a more formidable force.
The unarmed observers, caught in the middle, could do little. William S. Walker, the American diplomat who headed the observer group, was threatened at one point by a belligerent drunken Serb wielding a gun and a hand grenade. Mr. Walker pleaded privately with old friends at the State Department for some security. The State Department was sympathetic but was struggling to cope with the aftermath of the embassy bombings.
American intelligence analysts struggled to read Mr. Milosevic's intentions. Was he playing for time or preparing for war? Were the troop movements in October a prelude to a major offensive in which the population would be displaced so that the Serbs could more easily root out the Albanian guerrillas?
"The October agreement," read a highly classified National Intelligence Estimate dated November 1998, "indicates Milosevic is susceptible to outside pressure." The estimate is a lengthy formal report drafted by the C.I.A. and vetted by all Government intelligence agencies.
It suggested that Mr. Milosevic "could accept a number of outcomes from autonomy to provisional status, with the final resolution to be determined, as long as he remained the undisputed leader in Belgrade."
Mr. Milosevic, this assessment added, would only accept "new status" for Kosovo "if he thinks he is in danger because the West is threatening to use sustained and decisive military power against his forces."
About the same time, NATO intelligence detected signs of a Serbian military buildup around Kosovo. Western intelligence officials, particularly the Germans, believed that these troops could form the backbone of a military operation to push hundreds of thousands of Albanians out of Kosovo.
Its code name was Potkova -- in Serbian, Horseshoe.
American officials agree that Jan. 16 of this year was a turning point. On that day, the bodies of at least 45 peasant farmers and their children were found on hillsides and courtyards in the village of Racak.
Most had been shot at close range in the head or neck with a single bullet, according to American officials. Some had been mutilated.
Witnesses said a small group of hooded men dressed in black and wearing gloves had carried out the killings. Mr. Walker arrived on the scene within hours, and accused the Serbian security forces of committing "a crime very much against humanity."
The Serbian Government declared him persona non grata and fiercely protested its innocence. The killings galvanized public opinion in the United States and Europe.
Three days after the bodies were discovered, Ms. Albright presented her new plan at a White House meeting.
It again threatened bombing if Mr. Milosevic did not go along with the West. But, for the first time, it demanded that he accept NATO troops in his own country to enforce a deal under which he would withdraw almost all his security forces and grant Kosovo broad autonomy.
Until then, the goal had been to stick to an agreement that had come to be known as "October plus" -- the accord reached by Mr. Holbrooke plus some sort of protection for the observers. Mr. Berger was skeptical of going beyond that.
Mr. Cohen and Gen. Hugh Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had even greater reservations. They had wanted at all costs to avoid a troop presence that would require Americans.
But in the end the advisers embraced Ms. Albright's approach and sent it to the President, who accepted it.
Two days later, President Clinton was on the phone to Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain describing the new approach.
The two leaders agreed that there were two options: to initiate an immediate bombing campaign in reprisal for Racak, or to fashion a diplomatic solution that included ground troops as peacekeepers in Kosovo, according to a White House aide who listened in on the conversation.
"Blair said that ground troops could not be used to fight a war, but only as part of a political strategy," the official said. "The President said, 'I completely agree with you on that. If we sent in a ground force without some sort of agreement beforehand, sooner or later they're sitting ducks for either side who is willing to provoke something.' "
Mr. Clinton said he would instruct his aides to try to bring Mr. Milosevic and the Kosovo Albanians to the bargaining table. "I will try to get Congress to go along with me," he promised Mr. Blair.
Meanwhile, General Clark and General Naumann were confronting Mr. Milosevic.
The two generals refused food and drink. This was to be a serious negotiating session in which they told Mr. Milosevic he was violating the October agreement.
"We figured we'd starve him out," General Clark told colleagues afterward.
Mr. Milosevic was, as General Clark later told reporters, "determined to go his own way."
His face red, his voice cracking, the Serbian leader described the Racak incident as provocation.
"This was not a massacre," Mr. Milosevic insisted, according to a NATO official familiar with the meeting. "It was staged. These people were terrorists. They do these things to people."
Mr. Clark warned that NATO is "going to start telling me to move aircraft" if Serbia did not live up to its agreement.
"You are a war criminal to be threatening Serbia," Mr. Milosevic replied.
Unquestionably, the meeting had gone badly. But General Clark, perhaps because he had lived through the stormy Dayton peace talks, reported to his superiors that he still saw some flexibility.
Two days after General Clark's meeting, two State Department veterans of the Dayton talks, James Pardew and Christopher Hill, delivered a similar message to the Yugoslav President.
This time Mr. Milosevic said that the killings had resulted from a firefight between rebels and the Serbian security forces.
The rebels, he continued, rearranged the bodies and dressed them to make them look like peasants and farmers, shooting the bodies through the heads and necks to make the incident look like a massacre.
Mr. Milosevic's behavior raised a crucial question for Western officials: What were his intentions? Were the troop movements into Kosovo saber-rattling, or preparations for war?
American intelligence agencies governmentwide were utterly divided on how to read the Serbian leader, classified reports show.
"Confronted with a take-it-or-leave-it deal, Milosevic may opt to risk a NATO bombing campaign rather than surrender control over Kosovo," read one late January report, according to a Government official. "He may assume he can absorb a limited attack and the allies will not support a long campaign."
A week later the prediction was the opposite. "Milosevic will seek to give just enough to avoid NATO bombing."
The day the bombing began, March 24, an intelligence report said Mr. Milosevic "would interrupt the offensive and sign the peace plan if he suffers or expects to suffer substantial damage to his armed forces and national level infrastructure from a bombing campaign."
Two days later, the analysts had changed their minds. "Air attacks," they wrote, "will not suffice to shake Milosevic's confidence."
In addition, while it was widely expected that NATO bombing would prompt retaliation against the Kosovo Albanians, officials said there had been no predictions that Mr. Milosevic would try to empty the province of them, as he has done.
After the Racak killings in January, some American officials favored air strikes. But there remained the delicate matter of NATO unity.
On Jan. 28, the NATO allies warned that they were ready to use force immediately, and Britain and France said they were prepared to send in ground troops to enforce a peace settlement. Two days later, after Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General, said that the threat of force was justified to get the Serbs to the bargaining table, the allies decided they had justification enough under international law to authorize air strikes against Yugoslavia if it did not agree to negotiate a settlement.
To try to strike that deal, the Europeans wanted a conference that would be their equivalent of Dayton, Ms. Albright said in an interview on Friday.
 
The Negotiations
Talks at a Castle Set Stage for War
 But the gathering at Rambouillet, a former royal hunting lodge near Paris, was no Dayton.
The Americans approached the negotiations hoping to impose a solution on the Serbs and the Kosovo Albanians, but that attempt quickly broke down. Mr. Milosevic, who was a central figure at Dayton, did not even attend the meetings. The Albanians were balky, too, refusing to accept a three-year autonomy deal offered by NATO because it carried no guarantee of eventual independence.
If Dayton was a diplomatic triumph for the Clinton Administration and Mr. Holbrooke, Rambouillet was a debacle for Secretary Albright. She told friends it was one of the worst experiences of her career.
With the two-week deadline set for the talks almost expired, Ms. Albright went to Rambouillet and implored the Albanians to sign on to the deal. Ms. Albright failed to convince the hard-liners, the representatives of the Kosovo Liberation Army, who insisted on inserting language that held out promise of a referendum on independence after the three years of autonomy. But they also insisted that they needed a two-week pause to sell even that deal to their supporters.
That set the stage for the ultimate failure of diplomacy. By refusing to sign the deal, the Kosovo Albanians had taken the pressure off the Serbs, leaving NATO with no reason to order air strikes at that point. "If this fails because both sides say 'No,' there will be no bombing of Serbia," Ms. Albright said on Feb. 21, as the Rambouillet talks wound down.
Mr. Milosevic, for his part, concluded that there was not enough incentive for him to deal. While Ms. Albright had inserted language to satisfy the Albanian rebels, apparently none of the parties were negotiating any changes that the Serbs might have sought -- particularly changes related to the deployment of NATO ground troops. Two days after Rambouillet ended, said the European Union envoy to the talks, Wolfgang Petritsch, the Yugoslav President decided that he was not going to accept NATO troops -- and mustered his own forces and propaganda to prepare for the military showdown.
The standoff over Kosovo was growing more dire as President Clinton's political fortunes were rising and as the crisis drew more of his focus and energy. On Feb. 12, he was acquitted by the Senate. Only a few days later, on a trip to Mexico with Senator Biden, the President wanted to talk about the Kosovo crisis.
"All the way down on the plane I was reading a book about the Balkans and he saw me reading it," Mr. Biden recalled in an interview.
The book was "History of the Balkans," by Barbara Jelavich (Cambridge University Press). "And you know how he is," Mr. Biden added. "He asked me to give it to him to read. And I said, 'No, get your own copy.'
And I'll lay odds that he eventually got it and read it."
President Clinton believed war could still be averted, though he was prepared to undertake a short burst of bombings, if necessary.
In a meeting with Italy's new Prime Minister, Massimo D'Alema, in the Oval Office on March 5, Mr. Clinton said Mr. Milosevic had "accepted almost everything," according to Italian officials in Europe.
Mr. D'Alema, a rough-around-the-edges former Communist, was skeptical. He asked the President what the plan was if there was no deal and NATO air strikes failed to subdue the Serbian leader. The result, Mr. D'Alema said, would be 300,000 to 400,000 refugees passing into Albania and crossing the Adriatic into Italy.
"What will happen then?" Mr. D'Alema wanted to know, according to Italian officials.
Mr. Clinton looked to Mr. Berger for guidance. NATO will keep bombing, Mr. Berger replied.
After Rambouillet fell apart, a followup conference was called in Paris three weeks later. While the world waited, Mr. Milosevic continued to build up his forces in and around Kosovo.
A defining moment came on March 18 at the International Conference Center on the Avenue Kleber in Paris. To polite applause, four ethnic Albanian delegates signed the peace plan that would give their people broad autonomy for a three-year interim period. The Serbs did not sign. That paved the way to air strikes.
Even though the United States and its NATO allies were now committed to war, three European Foreign Ministers -- Robin Cook of Britain, Hubert Vedrine of France and Joschka Fischer of Germany -- began murmuring about making a final appeal to Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade. Ms. Albright persuaded them to allow Mr. Holbrooke to go instead. But even as Mr. Holbrooke was en route to Belgrade, the situation grew more hopeless.
"The racial hatred was unleashed," said one senior Administration official. "Albanians began to kill Serbs; Serbs were shooting up villages."
Mr. Holbrooke has described his last meeting with Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade's Beli Dvor -- White House -- on March 22 as "unreal." Mr. Milosevic accused the Americans of "sitting at the Albanian side of the table" at Rambouillet.
He insisted that there was no war in Kosovo, just a few terrorists who needed to be rooted out once and for all. Mr. Holbrooke later described parts of his conversation with Mr. Milosevic. "I said to him, 'Look, are you absolutely clear in your own mind what will happen when I get up and walk out of this palace that we're now sitting in?' "
"And he said, 'You're going to bomb us.' "
"And I said, 'That's right.' "
In the end it was Mr. Milosevic who was left to decide whether his country and NATO would go to war. "It was Milosevic who deliberately and consciously chose to trigger the bombing of his own country," Mr. Holbrooke said.
Ms. Albright said that setting up a deal signed by only one side was a crucial step forward. "Signing Rambouillet was crucial in getting the Europeans two things." she said. "Getting them to agree to the use of force and getting the Albanians on the side of this kind of a settlement."
The Serbs had already begun their offensive, she added, and if the signing had not been forced at that time, "we would be negotiating while they were carrying out their 'village a day keeps NATO away.' "
At 12:30 on the morning of March 25, hours after the first bombs fell, the President was wide awake. He had called his key counterparts in NATO and monitored the beginning of the air war that day. His foreign policy team had gone home and there was nothing left to do.
But the President apparently needed to assure and be reassured. So he called his Secretary of State and woke her up.
The President said, "We're doing the right thing here," Ms. Albright recalled. "We've got a long way to go. This is not going to be over quickly and we're all in this. I feel we've explored every option, that we're doing the right thing."
The Secretary said she replied: "I feel the same way. Nobody should ever think that we had gone into this without our eyes wide open."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: American airmen, part of the 20th Fighter Wing, arriving at the Aviano air base in Italy to support air strikes. (U.S. Air Force)(pg. 1); Gen. Wesley K. Clark, center, and Gen. Klaus Naumann of Germany meeting with Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade in January. (Associated Press); The moderate Ibrahim Rugova left, and Hashim Thaci of the Kosovo Liberation Army signing a symbolic peace plan in March. (Reuters); President Clinton explaining the NATO Decision on air strikes to the American public late last month. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); Kosover Albanian women seeking medical attention for their infants soon after arriving at a refugee camp in Kukes, Albania. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. 13); Members of the Kosovo Liberation Army posing in a village early last year. (Wade Goddard for The New York Times); Richard C. Holbrooke at his first Kosovo meeting with Albanian hard-liners, in Junik near the Albanian border in 1998. (Associated Press); Albanians expressing their anger outside a Dayton, Ohio base in 1995 as peace talks proceeded without Albanian involvement. (Associated Press)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); US AIR FORCE (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); US AIR FORCE (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMPEACHMENT WAR & CONFLICT (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCANDALS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR CRIMES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); SEX SCANDALS (62%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; BRONNER, ETHAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



407 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 1; Television 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY;
Reviving a Century's Worth of Memories

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
Eight years ago Sarah Louise (Sadie) Delany, who was 104, and her younger sister, Annie Elizabeth (Bessie), who was 102, welcomed Amy Hill Hearth, a freelance writer for The New York Times, into their Mount Vernon, N.Y., home.
The story that the daughters of a slave who became the country's first black elected bishop of the Episcopal Church told Ms. Hill that day and in a series of follow-up interviews became the basis for the best-selling 1993 memoir "Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters' First One Hundred Years." A play by Emily Mann, based on the book, opened on Broadway in 1995. During its two-year run, theatergoers would occasionally engage in repartee with the actors onstage. 
 Tonight the rest of America will be able to sit down and share in the conversation with the Delany sisters when "Having Our Say" is shown at 9 on CBS.
The film, starring Diahann Carroll as Sadie, Ruby Dee as Bessie and Amy Madigan as Ms. Hearth, reflects upon a century of American life as seen through the eyes of two extraordinary African-Americans who overcame racial prejudice, gender discrimination and conventional wisdom to write their own footnotes to history: Bessie became the first black female dentist in New York State, and Sadie became the first black home economics teacher in New York City.
Theirs is an entertaining oral history, filled with characters who defined the times in which they lived. There are the unnamed "rebby boys," white men of the Jim Crow South who might want to have sex or commit rape or murder, depending on their mood; whites who strongly believed "coloreds" should stay in their place, and black cultural heroes like Booker T. Washington, a friend of the Delany family.
The focus of the two-hour drama is the family of Henry Beard Delany, who became vice principal of St. Augustine's College in Raleigh, N.C., and his wife, Nanny Logan, who was a teacher at the college and also the school's matron. Henry, played by Mykelti Williamson, and Nanny, played by Lonette McKee, had 10 children, born and educated on "St. Aug's" campus.
Like the book and play, the movie, directed by Lynne Littman, and produced by Camille Cosby and Judith James, who also produced the stage version, manages to maintain its original intimacy with the audience.
"We haven't been scared to leave it with the two women talking to Amy in the environment of their home or at a coffee shop in Harlem," said Ms. James. "We went there with the knowledge that we could maintain that intimacy, and that these were two delightful people, and that you'd be happy to sit down and talk to them."
We meet the sisters in the parlor of their comfortable red brick home. We later discover that they bought the house in Mount Vernon in 1957 and were among the first blacks to integrate this Westchester suburb. Sadie is the sweet, quiet one who charmed her way into hearts and out of harm's way. Bessie is the feisty one who nearly got herself lynched for telling some white boys exactly how she felt. Where Sadie openly welcomes Ms. Hearth into their home and their lives, Bessie is somewhat suspicious of the eager young white journalist.
"Amy was interesting to me," said Ms. Madigan. "She thought she was going to spend a two-hour interview, and they became her family. But they also let her in. They could have said hello, had tea and cookies and then said goodbye to this little white girl."
The sisters' lives are indeed an open book and they hold nothing back. Bessie makes it clear that it was harder for her growing up in a race-conscious society because she was darker than her elder sister. Bessie said that she and her sister, neither of whom married, lived so long because "we never had husbands to worry us to death."
In the film, portions of which were shot in Charlotte, N.C., the sisters talk about their childhood recollections before Jim Crow laws, when as children, played by Kiara Harris and Haleigh Porter, they visited their maternal grandparents and noticed the disapproving stares at this mixed-race couple at a time when interracial marriages were forbidden.
Sadie and Bessie's first encounter with Jim Crow comes in 1896 during a family picnic. The girls run ahead of their parents to get a drink of water from a nearby spring. Erected across the middle of the stream, they see a big wooden sign with the word "white" printed on one side, the word "colored" printed on the other.
Under Ms. Littman's direction, the movie unfolds with past and present transcending place and time in the sisters' minds.
"I wanted to create what actors call a sense memory," said Ms. Littman, whose movie "Freak City," is being shown tonight on Showtime. "It's as if a smell puts them in another story. When they come out of the past, and the audience comes back into the present, the sisters are finishing up the story that happened in the past, so you're never quite sure where they're living, which, in fact, is what happens with old age."
Ms. Littman, who in 1977 won an Academy Award for "Number Our Days," a short documentary about elderly Jews, said she had reservations about directing a drama about blacks because she is white. But the parallels between the age and experience of her Jewish subjects and that of the Delany sisters made her feel "legitimate" enough to do this movie, she said.
To portray Sadie and Bessie, the producers decided not to go with Gloria Foster or Mary Alice, the actresses who portrayed the sisters in the Broadway productions.
"We went to Ruby first and asked her who she would feel sisterly with, and she said Diahann," said Mrs. Cosby. "It was amazing how it turned out. We had heavy makeup sessions, about three hours. Yet they brought back the characters, right through the makeup, and right into your heart."
Ms. Carroll, who has her own place in history by becoming the first black woman to have her own television sitcom, "Julia," said it was easy to identify with her character's experiences.
"It was easy for me to recall those feelings of being the first black woman, the feelings of acceptance, the feelings of rejection and the feelings of 'let's move on, my eye is on the goal,' " Ms. Carroll said. "Sadie's eye was always on the goal. The end justified the means. And I think that we are very similar in character. She was much more quiet and manipulative in a nice way to achieve her goal. In that way, I am perhaps like Sadie."
In every other way, Ms. Dee is very much like the Delany she portrays. Of her arrest last month in Manhattan during a civil disobedience march protesting the killing of Amadou Diallo, Ms. Dee said, "It was a very Bessie-like thing to do."
"When 'Birth of a Nation' was released, Bessie was getting people to protest and march," said Ms. Dee. "The sisters were at the backbone of what was progressive, and as educated women were passionate about injustice."
Mrs. Cosby said the story of the Delany sisters should not be viewed as an African-American story but as a story about the human spirit. "We have the opportunity to change attitudes about old people with this movie," she said. "Because it's about two little old ladies, people expect it to be cute. But it's not what they expect. It's interesting and funny and powerful."
Bessie Delany died in 1995 at 104. Sadie Delany carried on. In May 1997 she wrote her last book with Ms. Hearth, "On My Own at 107: Reflections of Life Without Bessie." When she died in January, she was 109.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from left; Sarah Louise Delany, 104, and her sister, Annie Elizabeth, 102, in 1993 (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Judith James and Camille Cosby, the producers of "Having Our Say"; Haleigh Porter and Kiara Harris as the young Delanys, and Amy Madigan (as the writer Amy Hill Hearth) , Diahann Carroll and Ruby Dee. (Photographs by Bob Greene/CBS)(pg. 5); From left, Richard Roundtree as Booker T. Washington and Lisa Arrindell Anderson as the 29-year-old Sarah Louise (Sadie) Delany; Della Reese as Martha Logan. (Photographs by Bob Greene/CBS)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HAVING OUR SAY (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MOUNT VERNON NEON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WRITERS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); WOMEN (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); FILM (74%); HISTORY (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); MEN (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BESTSELLERS (70%); FILM DIRECTORS (67%); GENDER EQUALITY (66%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (63%); THEATER (55%); 

PERSON: DELANY, SARAH LOUISE (SADIE); DELANY, BESSIE (D1995); CARROLL, DIAHANN; DEE, RUBY; WILLIAMS, LENA RUBY DEE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



408 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Despite Deregulation, Utilities Avoid New York

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 17

 BODY:
For years, officials here and in other state capitals have hailed competition as a way to lower electricity bills, and New York is one of just five states that have actually begun letting some customers choose their supplier of power.
But the price framework the Pataki administration has created provides very little room for competition, less than in almost any other state that has begun the process. Customers are learning that they cannot find a price much lower, or even slightly lower, than the one being offered by their old, familiar utilities. 
 As a result, most of the nation's major energy retailers have stayed out of New York, although they are competing aggressively for customers in several other states.
"We are not about to jump into the New York market and lose money," said Howard Fromer, director of government affairs in New York for Enron Corporation of Houston. "I can't believe any outside marketer is making money in the New York market."
Even some officials at the Public Service Commission, the state agency that regulates utilities, concede privately that there is far less competition than they had hoped for. It was the commission, whose members are appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki, that designed the system for competition.
But the commission's chairwoman, Maureen Helmer, said that while New York might have less robust competition than some states have now, it has laid the groundwork for more competition in the future. "I think when you look in one or two years, you're going to see a very different picture," she said.
New York has some of the highest electricity rates in the country, about 50 percent above the national average. Business groups say that makes the state less competitive economically, and they have long pushed for a freer energy market.
Environmentalists, too, have high hopes for competition. They predict that companies marketing "green power," power generated by the cleanest sources, will find ready takers even if the companies charge a little more for electricity, a theory borne out in other states. Power plants, particularly older ones burning coal and oil, are a major source of air pollution and acid rain.
"People are going to realize that the choice of an energy provider is the single most important environmental decision they can make," said Ralph Kavanagh, energy program co-director for the Natural Resources Defense Council.
But if the rate structure does not leave room for the biggest energy marketers to turn a profit in New York, smaller companies offering green power say they stand even less of a chance.
"New York's setup is just not supportive of competition," said Julie Blunden, vice president of Green Mountain Energy of South Burlington, Vt., a leading seller of green power that has shunned New York. "We don't market ourselves as being cheaper, but price competition helps us because it means people are out shopping for a new supplier."
Industry officials and analysts say they believe that New York's regulators wanted to shield the state's seven established regional utilities, including Consolidated Edison, from the pressures of competition. But some also contend that in making trade-offs, the Public Service Commission believed that it had no choice but to restrict competition.
As part of a five-year transition from the traditional monopolies to a competitive market, New York's utilities are being radically reorganized. They are selling their power plants and each one is splitting into two companies, one to own and maintain the transmission and distribution system, and the other to sell power to consumers. The commission was never sure that it had the legal authority to order such changes -- the utilities threatened to tie the state up in litigation for years if it tried -- so it negotiated the transition with the utilities, reaching agreements with them in 1997 and 1998.
At the same time, the Pataki administration was determined to begin the process with across-the-board rate reductions, which turned out to be 10 percent in Con Edison's territory and less in other parts of the state.
"To get the utilities to agree to restructuring and rate cuts, they settled for less competition than they might have gotten," said Larry Shapiro, staff attorney at the New York Public Interest Research Group.
Ms. Helmer said New York has been more aggressive than other states in getting utilities to sell their power plants. That, she said, will mean vigorous wholesale competition among power producers, which will eventually translate into retail competition and lower prices. The result, she said, will be "more sustainable benefits for New Yorkers than they may get in other states."
Advocates of competition laud the sale of the power plants, but they say the price structure the state set still poses a long-term problem.
Competition in New York began last year in Con Edison's territory, New York City and Westchester County, where about one-fifth of the market has been opened up to competitive bidding.
Consumers snapped up that power as soon as it was available, but it is unclear how much real competition that reflects. Retailers were able to offer only a very small savings over Con Edison's rates, based mostly on a tax loophole that the administration has warned it will close this year. And many of the consumers who took advantage of the competition did not sign up with an outside retailer, but with Con Edison's own new, competitive subsidiary.
Even after states introduce competition, the old utilities still hold monopoly control of the system that distributes power and delivers it to homes and businesses. So a portion of every customer's bill will continue to go to the utility, even if the customer buys electricity elsewhere.
In a highly subjective process, state regulators look at the old, monopoly-style utility bill and decide which charges represent those services the utilities will continue to provide and which reflect the actual price of electricity. The electricity portion of the bill is known as a "shopping credit" or a "back-out rate," meaning that consumers can stay with the utility, for now, at that price, or shop for a better deal.
The lower the shopping credit, the higher the guaranteed revenue for the established utility, and the harder it becomes for any company to undercut the utility's price.
Among four of the five states where competition has begun -- New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island -- as well as a few others that have set their price structures but have not yet ushered in competition, New York allows the least room for competition by setting the lowest shopping credits. The fifth state, California, is an anomaly in that regulators did not set specific shopping credits, letting them fluctuate instead, and its system effectively leaves even less of a margin for competition than New York's does.
The rate structure the Public Service Commission created for Con Edison allows a shopping credit averaging about 3.5 cents a kilowatt-hour out of a total bill of about 15 cents per kilowatt-hour, though both figures can vary widely. The credits are smaller, often less than 3 cents, for customers of upstate utilities like Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation.
By comparison, most residents and businesses in Pennsylvania have shopping credits of 4 to 5 cents per kilowatt-hour; the credits are scheduled to rise over the next few years until the average is above 5 cents. New Jersey, which is scheduled to begin some competition on June 1, has decided on a framework with shopping credits generally above 5 cents. In Rhode Island and Massachusetts, the average shopping credit is about 3.5 cents. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ENRNQ (OTC) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ACID RAIN (60%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



409 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Do Computers Help the Economy?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The techno-pessimists you quote (front page, April 14) don't foresee productivity gains in knowledge work. They fail to understand the nature of most knowledge work. 
 Sure, we create and manipulate information. But very little of our work is truly original. Someone else has written the same contract clause, advertising plan or procedures manual. We recreate existing information only because it would be more costly to find and appropriate what has already been created elsewhere. That will change.
The "elsewheres" are rapidly becoming part of a global network. The World Wide Web is still in its infancy, yet most knowledge workers already turn to it first for information gathering. Our productivity improvements may be impossible to measure, but they are real and they are accelerating.
 
KIT SIMS TAYLOR
Bellevue, Wash., April 14, 1999
 
The writer is an economics instructor at Bellevue Community College.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: BELLEVUE COMMUNITY COLLEGE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELLEVUE COMMUNITY COLLEGE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); WRITERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (64%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR, KIT SIMS

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



410 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Just the Rich Who Are Getting Richer

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Victimless Income Gap?" (Op-Ed, April 12): One problem is that house prices have been driven up because of their location in good school districts, which are good because the wealthiest 1 percent of people have chosen to live there. 
 Unfortunately for Robert H. Frank's argument, this gives excellent support to the Pareto criterion, which holds that a change in circumstances must be counted as a good thing if it makes at least some people better off without harming any others. In fact, those middle- and lower-income families who live in the better districts have better schools precisely beause the rich have become richer.
The real problem is that "the quality of public schools is closely linked to local property taxes." The solutions are more efficient management of public schools and a more equitable way to finance them.
 
CHARLES CANTER
Amherst, Mass., April 12, 1999
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; INCOME EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); 

PERSON: CANTER, CHARLES MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



411 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
Statements of United States' policy on Kosovo:

 BODY:
"In the event of conflict in Kosovo caused by Serbian action, the United States will be prepared to employ military force against the Serbians in Kosovo and in Serbia proper." President George Bush in a letter to Slobodan Milosevic, then Serbian President, Dec. 25, 1992.
 "We remain prepared to respond against the Serbians in the event of a conflict in Kosovo caused by Serbian action." Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Feb. 13, 1993 
 "U.S. policy has not changed." Robert Gelbard, U.S. special representative for the Balkans, March 4, 1998, when asked if Bush's "Christmas Warning" was still in effect.
 "The time to stop the killing is now, before it spreads. The way to do that is to take immediate action against the regime in Belgrade." Mrs. Albright, March 8, 1998, in Bonn.
 "I am determined to do all I can to stop a repeat of the human carnage in Bosnia and the 'ethnic cleansing.' And I have authorized, and I am supporting, an accelerated planning process for NATO." President Bill Clinton, June 9, 1998, in Washington.
 "While no decision has been made regarding the use of force, all options -- including robust military intervention in Kosovo -- remain on the table. NATO planning is on track and Milosevic understands that this is no idle threat." Mr. Gelbard, July 23, 1998, to the House International Relations Committee.
 "I believe that the credibility of NATO really is on the line, that one can not continue to prepare for possible military action or indeed threaten military action unless one is prepared to carry it out." Secretary of Defense William Cohen, Sept. 29, 1998, news conference at NATO Defense Ministers' meeting, Vilamoura, Portugal.
 "NATO is prepared to act if President Milosevic fails to honor the United Nations resolutions. The stakes are high. The time is now to end the violence in Kosovo." President Clinton, Oct. 6, 1998, opening the International Monetary Fund/World Bank annual meeting.
 "I think that the threshold has been crossed ... I do not believe that we ought to have to have thousands more people slaughtered and buried in open soccer fields before we do something." President Clinton, March 19, 1999, in Washington, after peace talks ended with only the Albanians signing the proffered agreement on Kosovo.
 "I don't intend to put our troops in Kosovo to fight a war." Mr. Clinton, March 24, 1999, announcing the start of air strikes that he said were designed to prevent a wider war. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



412 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 149; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1856 words

HEADLINE: Best Herb;
This Bulb's Life

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill
<BLB>Shunned for centuries, garlic triumphs again. 

 BODY:
<DC>Hail garlic. The stinking rose, subject of ancient poetry and medical texts, has returned to glory.
For thousands of years, garlic, the most pungent member of the lily family (which includes chives, leeks and onions), had been esteemed by many cultures. The ancient Egyptians, who tucked garlic bulbs into their kings' tombs, swore oaths on the herb -- just as moderns do on the Bible. The sacrificial lambs of China were seasoned with garlic. Hippocrates prescribed raw garlic for an infected lung. And in the first half of this millennium, foods -- and cultures -- lacking in garlic were generally considered backward. By the 1700's, however, especially in Britain and America, the bloom was off the bulb. The smell of garlic had become synonymous with promiscuous, poor and superstitious peasant cultures. Garlic's fall was great -- but its resurrection, over the past half century, has been even greater. 
 At the turn of the current millennium, herbalism flourished, as did the notion of food as medicine. As the Church grew, however, ecclesiastical and medical considerations became more intertwined, especially at the dinner table. Six hundred years later, there was a growing tendency toward milder food -- an early attempt, some food historians suggest, at a holier-than-thou cuisine. Other historians consider this new blandness a reaction against the traditional use of boisterous aromatics, including garlic, to mask the taste of spoiled food.
And thus, over time, garlic became declasse in certain circles. The pro- and anti-garlic camps were largely divided along religious lines, with the mighty bulb more popular within the Mediterranean-based Catholic Church than in the less mystical churches of Northern Europe. During the Elizabethan era, cleanliness was increasingly equated with godliness, and strong scents were associated with lustiness and the Devil himself. In "Measure for Measure," Shakespeare points up the herb's low status when he has Lucio denounce the Duke as a man who "would eat mutton on Fridays" and "would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt of brown bread and garlic."
Nor was garlic favored in the young American republic, especially in polite society. Though it was used occasionally for medicinal purposes, it was generally off-limits in the culinary realm -- unless you were poor or a recent immigrant. Isabella Beeton, in her influential "Book of Household Management" (1861), wrote that "the smell of this plant is generally considered offensive."
But garlic's reputation was about to change. Waverley Root, in his dictionary "Food," wrote that when he left America for France in 1927, you were looked down upon if you ate garlic, and when he returned in 1940, you were looked down upon if you didn't. French cooking -- particularly the provincial style, which made liberal use of the herb -- had become a measure of gastronomic sophistication. As First Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt religiously chewed raw garlic to improve her memory.
These changes, however, occurred far from middle America. When I was growing up, in Columbus, Ohio, during the 1950's, there were two pariahs on the playground: the kids with B.O. and those who stank of garlic. I am embarrassed to recall the slurs we came up with for the Italian Catholics who sweated garlic.
But by the mid-1960's, even in my home economics class in Columbus, garlic had been declared the magical ingredient that would bring us all closer to Julia Child. Though my mother remained unimpressed, I, along with an entire generation, was perfumed by garlic right down to my Birkenstocks. This was a renaissance fueled by both taste and rebellion. Within counterculture circles, garlic became a staple of vegetarian cooking; and because ours was a generation that distrusted authority figures, particularly traditional doctors, garlic also became a darling of countless folk cures, some of which had roots reaching back thousands of years. By the 1990's, garlic had worked its way into the self-cure trinity, along with vitamin C and zinc.
And it looks as if garlic is here to stay. No other ingredient is featured as prominently in today's fashionable peasant cooking, to say nothing of the Mediterranean diet, which, with its emphasis on bread and garlic, bears a strong resemblance to the fare of the pyramid builders. (The recipe for bread-and-garlic sauce below is based on accounts of a mixture that was fed to Egyptian laborers and, later, to Roman soldiers. The recipe for garlic-and-almond soup is garlic grower Chester Aarons's interpretation of the Ur-gazpacho. The chicken recipe is based on a dish that a young fashion model consumed frequently and with great gusto, according to "Garlic and a Lady," an essay by Ford Madox Ford in his book "Provence." And the recipe for mashed potatoes proves that we've become comfortable enough with garlic to use it in the quintessential comfort food.)
By industry estimates, Americans eat more than 250 million pounds of garlic a year, more than four times the amount consumed in the 1970's. Most of it, some 90 percent, is grown around Gilroy, Calif., the only town in America, as Will Rogers said, where you can marinate a steak by hanging it out on a clothesline. Around the country, garlic festivals are booming; in gourmet circles, garlic snobbery runs rampant. Restaurants like Chez Panisse in Berkeley are creating seasonal dishes from green garlic, garlic shoots and bulbil caps (secondary, budlike cloves). Sophisticated epicures are fluent in the distinctions between various garlics: German Red is spicy, Spanish Roja intensely piquant and particularly pure; Inchelium Red, grown in Washington State, gets sharp with age, while Russian Red is faintly sweet. Grocery-store garlic is considered fit for only the unenlightened masses, and garlic salt and powder are beneath contempt. Then there are the debates over cooked garlic versus raw, and the various merits of mincing, chopping or using it whole.
It is safe to say that garlic has become a fetish. While there are no recent accounts of bulbs being tucked into the caskets of deceased heads of state, I do have a friend who rubbed garlic juice on the lips of his firstborn. Baby princes in 14th- and 15th-century England bore the same assault. My friend could not tell me if his act was meant to ward off vampires, or merely to rebel against the the antiseptic hospital room. He thought of it as a religious ritual, he said, although he has no religion. He is a man who trusts his own knowledge of herbal and homeopathic cures more than he does modern medicine. He is close to garlic, reassured by garlic; in his do-it-yourself pharmacopeia -- as well as in his kitchen -- garlic is god.
 
Garlic-and-Bread Sauce With Thyme
 
 4 ounces (about 6 slices) white bread, crusts removed, diced
 1/4 cup olive oil
 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
 2 cloves garlic, minced
 3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
 A few grinds black pepper
 1/2 cup water
 2 teaspoons chopped thyme.
Combine all the ingredients except the thyme in a blender and process until fairly smooth (do not overprocess or the sauce will become gummy). Transfer to a bowl and stir in the thyme. Serve at room temperature or heat very gently over low heat. Serve as a sauce with grilled or roast meat or fish, or cold poached fish or chicken.
Yield: About 1 cup.
 
White Almond-Garlic Soup with Grapes
(Adapted from "The Great Garlic Book," by Chester Aaron, Ten Speed Press, 1997)
 
 1 3/4 cups (about 8 ounces) blanched, ground almonds
 3 slices white bread, crusts removed, diced
 10 cloves garlic, peeled
 6 cups milk
 2 teaspoons sherry vinegar
 2 cups extra-virgin olive oil
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
 36 white seedless grapes, halved, for garnish.
1. In a large bowl, combine the almonds, bread, garlic, milk and vinegar. Working in three batches, transfer about a third of the mixture to a blender and process until smooth. With the motor running, slowly pour in 1/4 cup of olive oil. Strain the soup through a fine mesh sieve into a bowl. Repeat process with the remaining mixture.
2. Season the soup to taste with salt and pepper and chill for several hours. Before serving, taste the soup; if it tastes too strongly of either garlic or vinegar, add a bit of water. Serve the soup garnished with grape halves.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
A Young Lady's Poulet
 
 1 cup olive oil
 1 large roasting chicken, 4 to 5 pounds
 Kosher salt and pepper
 1 pound garlic (12 to 15 bulbs)
 4 large baking potatoes.
1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Put a large pot of lightly salted water on to boil. On another burner, place a large ovenproof casserole over medium heat with 1/2 cup of olive oil.
2. Truss the chicken and season it all over with salt and freshly ground black pepper. When the oil is hot, gently slide the chicken, breast-down, into the casserole. Brown the chicken carefully on all sides. You will need to move the chicken around every two to three minutes so that the skin doesn't stick. The entire procedure will take about 20 minutes.
3. While the chicken is browning, break the garlic into individual cloves, but do not peel them. When the water boils, blanch the garlic for 2 minutes, drain immediately, refresh under cold running water and set aside. Peel the potatoes, cut each into six pieces and set aside.
4. When the chicken is brown on all sides, remove it from the casserole and push a quarter of the blanched garlic into the cavity and set aside. Discard the used olive oil; wipe the casserole. Add 1/4cup of new olive oil to the bottom of the casserole. Add the remaining garlic cloves and toss so that the cloves are lightly covered in olive oil. Add the chicken and baste it with 2 tablespoons of olive oil.
5. Place another skillet over high heat; add the remaining 2 tablespoons of the olive oil. When the oil is hot, quickly brown the potatoes. Discard the oil and arrange the potatoes around the chicken. Cover the casserole, put in the oven and bake for 90 minutes. Allow the chicken to rest at room temperature for 10 minutes before serving.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Garlic-and-Herb Mashed Potatoes
 
 4 pounds (about 6) baking potatoes, peeled and quartered
 8 cloves garlic, peeled
 3 tablespoons unsalted butter
 3/4 cup milk or heavy cream, or a combination of both
 Kosher salt and freshly ground white pepper to taste
 1/2 cup chopped parsley
 2 tablespoons chopped herbs (any combination basil, thyme, chervil or chives).
1. Place the potatoes and garlic in a large saucepan and cover them with cold, salted water. Place over high heat and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer until the potatoes are tender when pierced with a fork, about 20 minutes. Drain.
2. While they are still warm, pass the potatoes and garlic through a ricer or mash with a potato masher. Return the potatoes to the pan and stir in the milk or cream and the butter. (Add more milk or cream if they seem too stiff.) Stir in the parsley and herbs. Season to taste with salt and pepper and serve.
Yield: 6 servings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garlic -- a relative of leeks, chives and onions -- has evolved from culinary pariah to national fetish. (Photograph by Maria Robledo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (56%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (56%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; GARLIC; RECIPES; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); HISTORY (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (78%); POETRY (78%); MILLENNIUM (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); AROMATICS (64%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



413 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: The Best of the First Millennium;
The Ice Age Cometh

BYLINE: By Felipe Fernandez-Armesto
<BLB>When China ruled, Islam rose and a lost sailor glimpsed America.; Felipe Fernandez-Armesto is the author of "Millennium," which is being made into a TV series for CNN.

 BODY:
<DC>Imagine a museum exhibition planned for 10,000 years in the future. The Galactic Museum will inaugurate its special millennium retrospectives on planet Earth with a show called "First Millennium, Christian Era: The Greatest Hits."
Across an immense distance of time and space, the Galactic curators will enjoy a perspective that allows the world to be seen whole. The impact will be paradoxical: refreshingly destructive. Our myths about the past will vanish. 
 The millennium before ours will be remembered not for the events that fill our textbooks -- the triumphs of barbarism and religion over "classical" civilizations -- but for the fact that for the first time cultures reached out and touched or almost touched. The Thule Inuit crossed the American Arctic, while in the opposite direction, the Norse navigated the Atlantic. Polynesians fanned across the Pacific. The Indian Ocean was crisscrossed with cultural contacts. The ideas and inventions of China spread west along developing trade routes. The heat of Arab imperialism forged the Middle East we know today. Indian missionaries and colonists spilled beyond the subcontinent. In Europe, heavy plows threatened the environment, and the stirrup transformed war.
Highlights in the Galactic Museum's retrospective will be genuine extracts from authentic documents -- surviving voices -- of the millennium. Here are some of them.
<DC>Exhibit #0964. From the prison-cell poetry of Boethius, a former secretary of state, awaiting execution for treason in the Ostrogothic kingdom of Italy, A.D. 524.
God's powerful love
Is undenied to all
Who in their search for goodness strove
Back: to the spring from whence they first did fall.
No worldly strain
Can linger without death
Unless love bring it back again a
Back to the source which first inspired its breath.
There were no new departures in the use of the mind -- in the first millennium A.D. or the next. So the main intellectual achievement of the millennium was the transmission of ancient traditions. Humankind relied on the old philosophies of Confucius, Lao-tzu, Buddha, Plato and Aristotle, the Upanishads and the Jewish Scriptures. The last of these inspired the two big, new religions of the period: Christianity and Islam.
Civilization depended on a few sages and monks who understood the ancient wisdom and passed it on. Their work was vital because of the strategic fragility of civilized life: literacy and scientific progress were threatened with extinction during this period in Europe and America. The scribes who kept tradition alive in the New World are unknown by name, but Boethius was one of the heroes of continuity in Europe. He helped to make Christianity an appealing fusion of Jewish and Greek traditions about God. In particular, he helped revive a reasoning method of Aristotle's, called "logic," although this was immensely overrated for the next millennium and a half.
<DC>Exhibit #1247. From the diary of Ibn Wahab, seeker of wisdom, traveler to China from Iraq, A.D. 872.
When I was received by the emperor, he called for a box of scrolls and had them spread before us. Recognizing the portraits of the prophets, I said, "Here is Noah with his ark, which saved him when the earth was drowned. . . ."
At these words the emperor laughed and said: "You have identified Noah correctly, but as for the flood, we do not believe it. It did not reach China or India."
"There is Moses," I said.
"Yes," said the emperor. "But he was unimportant, and his people were few."
"There," I said, "is Jesus surrounded by apostles?"
"Yes," said the emperor. "He lived only a short time. His mission lasted only thirty months."
Then I saw the Prophet on a camel . . . and I was moved to tears.
"Why do you weep?" asked the emperor. "His people founded a glorious empire, though he did not live to see it completed."
China was the millennium's greatest civilization and its greatest state. For most of the history of the human species, the world's best data banks were in China. From the library of the Tang emperors (A.D. 618 to 907), scholars could behold the rest of the world with a degree of objectivity and skepticism almost worthy of Galactic curators. People at the other end of Eurasia, in the west, thought they possessed "the fairest part of the earth and the most civilized portion of mankind." In reality, China had the most advanced technology, the most scientific mind-set, the most cohesive state, the largest population, the most effective imperial vocation.
China was also remarkable for its endurance. Other civilizations stagnated or were overwhelmed. Rome -- China's nearest rival in scale, productivity and inventiveness -- succumbed to barbarians and Christians. The Persian empire fell to barbarians and Muslims. The Maya gave up the struggle to maintain cities in the rain forest. The great monuments of the Ethiopian empire -- at the time, the tallest monoliths ever -- toppled and were never resurrected.
Most history is a path picked across ruins. But in the Galactic Museum, we display the human phase of life on Earth as a mainly Chinese story. Of course, there were moments when the power of one human community to influence the rest passed to other hands. In the last couple of centuries of the millennium, which ended in A.D. 2000, Europeans forced their influence on the world. Their former colonies in America became the world's only superpower. But such moments were an aberration, for history normally unfolded from east to west.
<DC>Exhibit #1368. Paraphrase from a Persian sea captain's "Book of the Wonders of India," c. A.D. 950.
Abhara of Kirman was the age's leading navigator. He sailed to China and back seven times. On one occasion, we found him alone in the Sea of Tonkin, with a skinful of water, in a flat calm. Thinking to rescue him, we invited him aboard our ship. But he refused, except for 1,000 dinars, saying, "Your situation is worse than mine."
We said: "Our ship has much merchandise and many people. It will do us no harm to have Abhara's advice for 1,000 dinars."
So we made the bargain. Declaring, "We have no time to waste," Abhara made us discard heavy merchandise, jettison the mainmast and cut the anchor cables to lighten the ship. A cloud like a minaret then appeared -- the sign of a typhoon. Not only did we survive its onslaught, but Abhara got us profitably to China and, on the way back, steered us to the exact place where some of our lost anchors could be retrieved from barely visible rocks, where, but for him, we should surely have perished.
The first millennium's greatest economic achievement was the conquest of the Indian Ocean. Explorers created trade routes that united the monsoon belt of the world, from the Pacific Rim to Arabia and East Africa. The ocean became the planet's richest arena of wealth and culture. Its eastern half was colonized by Indian ideas and esthetics. Indian cosmogony and myth were carved in the stones of Angkor in Cambodia and Borobodur in Java. Abhara's own religion spread from the west: it was founded in the early seventh century by an Arabian bandit chief who became a holy man and received revelations from an angel.
<DC>Exhibit #2000. An incident recalled in an Icelandic saga, c. A.D. 987.
The fair wind failed. Northern winds and fogs set in. And for many days they had no idea what their course was. After that they saw the sun again and were able to get their bearings. They hoisted sail and after a day's sailing they sighted land. They discussed among themselves what country this might be.
Although its effects were long delayed, the first millennium's best error was the discovery of a way from Europe to America. It happened by accident, when, decades before Leif Eriksson, a Norwegian trader named Bjarni Herjolfsson tried to sail from Iceland to Greenland by a route unknown to his crew. He got lost and sighted a strange land. This small mistake was a sign that two of the most powerful long-term trends on the planet were about to be reversed, however briefly. First, Western Europe -- formerly a stay-at-home civilization -- began to look outward. Secondly, the evolution of life forms on sundered continents, which had been diverging for millions of years, now were on the verge of being brought together by transoceanic commerce -- with prospects of contact and perils of contagion.
Nearly a millennium after Bjarni's blunder, the Atlantic replaced the Indian Ocean as the world's biggest axis of commerce. The period of Atlantic dominance was brief, for by the year 2000 the Pacific carried more traffic. Meanwhile, exploration opened up new routes -- some airborne, some below the ocean's surface -- across the planet's remaining underexploited sea. The Arctic would eventually become the world's most influential arena of activity. At the beginning of their third millennium, the people on Earth thought their planet was warming up. Little did they realize that Earth was destined to enter a new kind of Ice Age, an era dominated and shaped by a frozen ocean.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Chinese dared to dream -- and outlasted the Romans, Persians, Maya and Ethiopians.; Boethius, religious alchemist, helped create an appealing Christianity from Jewish and Greek theological traditions.; "Have Boat, Will Travel" became the motto of Western Europe thanks to a Norse sailor who accidentally discovered America.; Reaching out and touching another culture: A 13th-century Arabic manuscript depicting pilgrims highlights a dominant trend of the first millennium.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (75%); MIDDLE EAST (70%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (51%); NEW WORLD WINES (51%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (75%); MIDDLE EAST (70%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%); EARTH (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: ONE THOUSAND (YEAR) MILLENNIUM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (60%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ-ARMESTO, FELIPE

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1999



414 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Despite a Passion for the Net, Many On-LineVolunteers Want Pay

BYLINE: By LISA NAPOLI 

 BODY:
David Mann has played piano and written arrangements for Frank Sinatra, serenaded President Truman on his yacht and written popular music like the song "In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning."
More recently, from his home in Kinnelon, N.J., he sits at a different keyboard, talking about classical music with the members of a chat room on America Online. By his estimate, he puts in at least five hours a week as a volunteer, moderating a weekly chat session, answering E-mail and filling out an on-line report about his duties. 
 In exchange, he and more than 10,000 other people who perform similar tasks for the on-line service get a free account and the designation "community leader." What they do not get is a paycheck, which is fine with Mr. Mann.
"I am not too concerned with being remunerated, since my purpose was to fulfill an obligation to my art -- my Muse, as it were. I merely believe that I owe it to the cause of good music to steer less knowledgeable people in the right direction," said Mr. Mann, 82, in an E-mail interview. "I deem it not only an obligation for me to do so, but a privilege."
While Mr. Mann considers his role a privilege, some former volunteers for America Online view it as work and have filed complaints with the Labor Department. They say volunteers at the company are treated like employees and perform functions that are integral to the on-line service's mission and should be paid.
In asking the Labor Department to investigate their claims, they have raised two decidedly Internet-age questions: When does taking part in and enjoying a community transcend hobby status and become work? And what does an Internet company owe to the people who give it life, not to mention high valuations on the stock market?
While the Labor Department will not comment on the complaints against America Online or any action it is taking, the industry and the volunteers themselves are looking on with interest. If the department does find America Online in violation of laws like the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, it could change the on-line landscape, since America Online is not the only company that relies on the passions and goodwill of people like Mr. Mann.
Dozens of other Internet businesses, including Prodigy Communications, iVillage and Geocities, are built on the foundation of a virtual community, where volunteer participants establish, lead and police discussion areas. In turn, the businesses proudly boast about the number of members who take part in their communities, and trade on those numbers to attract advertisers and make multimillion-dollar business deals. Without their contributions, company executives acknowledge that their services would be virtual ghost towns.
"They're the core foundation of our business," said Bruce Zanca, a spokesman for Geocities, a Web community where he says four million people have built free home pages. Mr. Zanca said 1,800 volunteers contributed their time to the management of the on-line community, hosting chat rooms and enforcing community standards, among other tasks. In exchange, they get Geo-Points they can use to buy products and services on Geocities.
"The monetary exchange probably wouldn't be an inducement," Mr. Zanca said. "These people are the cyber equivalent of scout leaders and P.T.A. members and the Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs. Why do people participate in these programs? It's the same reason I coach Little League on Saturday mornings. It's something people do for their own personal reasons."
The local Little League is a different proposition, however, than Geocities, a publicly traded company with 300 paid employees that was bought in January by Yahoo in a stock deal worth about $3.6 billion.
The notion of volunteering for a for-profit corporation is an unusual one, so there is little precedent by which to judge these relationships.
But one question the Labor Department might be asking as it looks into the complaints about American Online is whether the volunteer force is providing a service that the company would have to pay for if volunteers did not exist, said Jeffrey Chamberlain, an employment lawyer based in Albany.
"It's the difference between volunteering at I.B.M. to assemble computers and volunteering at the I.B.M. soup kitchen," Mr. Chamberlain said. "The difference between doing good and making computers is relatively conceptually easy to understand."
In the digital age, the lines between volunteering and working without pay are less clear. Many of the people who volunteer on line say they do the work for personal reasons -- not for the corporation.
Terri Bass spends, by her estimation, 20 to 30 hours a week in her home in Middleton, Wis., as a supervisor in the pet care forum on America Online.
She says she loves her virtual, unpaid job: hosting chat sessions, checking bulletin boards for inappropriate comments, responding to E-mail from those who visit the area. Sure, she said, she would like to be paid. "Who wouldn't love that?" she said. But even without financial compensation, she derives great satisfaction from her work.
"We are a close-knit family here," she said. "Most of my best friends are here."
It may seem peculiar to the uninitiated that so many people would give so much time, without financial compensation, to a company with $2.6 billion in revenue last year and a stock market valuation of $130 billion. Perhaps even more peculiar is the notion that volunteers would be so personally invested in the work they do. But it is a phenomenon that is part of an on-line tradition.
"Like sex, it looks funny from the outside," said Howard Rheingold, author of the book "The Virtual Community" (Addison-Wesley, 1993). "Any virtual community that works, works because people put in some time."
But in exchange, he said, what the members of virtual communities need and want is respect. Many Internet businesses, in the frenzied rush to capitalize on industry buzzwords, have used the word "community" in their marketing, but not necessarily in deed.
Mr. Rheingold said he suspected this was the case with the management at America Online.
Scott Kurnit, founder of the Mining Company, a guide to the Internet, chose a different strategy to compensate the people who manage various topics within the company's directory, like "pregnancy" or "Southern food." Mr. Kurnit said he knew when he started the company that he would need a large group of guides to fulfill his promise of a "human-powered" search engine, but that the economics of hiring a large staff were unrealistic for a start-up operation. Instead, he pays the guides a combination of a monthly stipend and a cut of the net revenues generated by advertising on their sections. Mr. Kurnit says the guides, who now number 692, earn between $500 and $11,000 a month, depending on the popularity of the section.
In addition, he said, he issued 200,000 shares of stock to the guides, which is now worth a total of about $10 million. (The company went public last month, making Mr. Kurnit, on paper, worth more than $50 million.)
In exchange, the guides sign over the rights to the sites they create, and agree not to work for other on-line services in a similar capacity.
While for guides who have less trafficked sites, the compensation might not equal a living wage, Mr. Kurnit feels his program offers a fair reward, and that the company benefits more than it would if he relied on volunteers.
"My view is entrepreneurs are the best workers -- they work tirelessly," Mr. Kurnit said. "Volunteers are unreliable, and have an expectation that you owe them something."
However, Mr. Zanca of Geocities disagrees that the quality of work he gets from his volunteers is less than if he were to pay them. He also said he was not concerned that the Labor Department inquiry might affect the way his company is structured.
"We think the Net has a new dynamic," he said, "and in new dynamics, laws and regulations need to be re-evaluated."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Mann, a songwriter and pianist, is a volunteer for America Online. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE INC; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) AOL INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VOLUNTEERS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); CHAT ROOMS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); 

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



415 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
So Many Programs, So Few Bodies

BYLINE: By LAWRIE MIFFLIN 

 BODY:
In an earlier time of broadcast news, marked by far-flung correspondents and high-roller budgets, individual news programs fought for turf, for talent and for money. A correspondent for the NBC "Nightly News" would not be assigned to do a report for, say, a news magazine, nor would a CBS News domestic reporter be sent to cover a war.
For that matter, no one would have dreamed of asking Diane Sawyer to combine her prestigious work as a prime-time news magazine anchor on ABC's "20/20" with a five-day-a-week stint in the folksy world of breakfast-show television. But there she is now, the co-anchor of "Good Morning America" with Charles Gibson -- and, by all accounts, happy to do so. 
 The hierarchies and fiefs of television news are breaking down a bit, driven by the networks' needs to cut costs and by new management philosophies that see a need for broadcast news reports to distinguish themselves from the reporting found on 24-hour cable news networks, radio and the Internet.
Increasingly, correspondents are contributing reports to several programs, not just the one to which they are assigned. Programs are becoming less territorial about stories and staff.
The war in Yugoslavia is providing many examples.
ABC News assembled a team to report on the Kosovar refugees, including a senior foreign correspondent from London (Jim Wooten), a Los Angeles-based domestic reporter (Jane Clayson), a "20/20" correspondent (John Quinones) and Mr. Gibson, co-anchor of "Good Morning America." The result was an hour report for "20/20," the prime-time news magazine, as well as reports for other programs on the network, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company.
The NBC foreign correspondents Ron Allen and Jim Maceda, who have been in Yugoslavia since the war began, have reported for "Nightly News," the morning program "Today," the prime-time magazine "Dateline," the CNBC business-news cable network and the MSNBC all-news cable network and World Wide Web site, which are jointly owned by NBC's parent, the General Electric Company, and the Microsoft Corporation.
Thalia Assuras, a reporter for "CBS This Morning," that network's breakfast-hour news program, began reporting from Tirana, Albania, last week on the refugee crisis, and filed a report for the "CBS Evening News" as well.
Even Dan Rather, the "Evening News" anchor who traveled to Belgrade last week, has contributed reports since then to his own 6:30 "Evening News," "CBS This Morning," the magazine program "48 Hours" and the CBS News Web site as well as six to eight reports daily for the CBS Radio network.
"In today's economic world," said Andrew Heyward, president of CBS News, "we've made it very clear to our correspondents that, with the possible exception of prime-time correspondents, we're asking all our hard news correspondents to contribute to all of our broadcasts and to radio."
Although economics may have kicked off this trend, other reasons played a role.
"We have not just 24-hour cable news, but Internet news, local news, radio news, pager news and everything else," said David Westin, president of ABC News. "In that world, giving people raw data is no longer a way of competing. We need to focus on explanation, on putting things in context, on deeper analysis and meaning."
That means pooling the fact-gathering resources of ABC News with the expertise of producers and correspondents, he said, then directing the results to whichever programs may best serve viewers.
For example, Mr. Quinones of "20/20" and Chris Bury, one of two "Nightline" correspondents, are reporting separate pieces for "World News Tonight," something that would have been unthinkable a few years ago.
"We're working toward a situation where ABC News reports the news, rather than an individual program reports the news," Mr. Westin said. "Does it have cost effects? Of course. But sometimes economic pressures cause us to do what we should be doing."
NBC News, for example, decided the audience for the morning "Today" show was news-savvy enough that the network's two White House correspondents, David Bloom and Claire Shipman, were divided equally between that program and the "NBC Nightly News." They alternate weeks of reporting for each.
NBC News paved the way in this new multitasking world three years ago with the creation of the MSNBC cable network and Web site. Since then, NBC News correspondents and producers have contributed to all programs on all those outlets.
"Viewers benefit from this in getting Tom Brokaw or Brian Williams on the little cable network," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center for People and the Press in Washington. "It's good when the resources of the premier news shows can be brought to bear on smaller shows or on cable."
But, Mr. Kohut cautioned, "working journalists aren't as sanguine about this as the executives are," partly because some feel they are being stretched too thin.
Lawrence K. Grossman, a former president of NBC News who is now a media consultant and a columnist for the Columbia Journalism Review, said there are fewer specialists in network news, which "isn't the end of the world, but it has changed what's reported."
"Basic news gathering is farmed out to news agencies, stringers and freelancers," he said, a major event like the war in Yugoslavia being an exception.
"If a major story develops, the networks will parachute in one of their mainstream correspondents from a bureau," who will do a professional but less expert job, he contended.
But such methods do save money. Last year all three broadcast news divisions had to shrink their costs.
The CBS Corporation gave pink slips to about 120 people in the fall, about 7 percent of the CBS News staff, though none of those dismissed were correspondents. ABC News and NBC News made similar reductions, without setting percentage quotas or publicizing precise layoff figures.
ABC News achieved some savings last year by not renewing contracts of five correspondents, though it has also hired two new correspondents this year.
For example, ABC News told George Strait, a longtime medical correspondent for "World News Tonight," that his contract would not be renewed. In part, this was because Dr. Tim Johnson and Dr. Nancy Snyderman were contributing reports to all programs, enough that news executives felt that beat was adequately covered without Mr. Strait.
Similarly, ABC News did not renew the contract of Tim O'Brien, who has covered the Supreme Court for "World News Tonight" for 22 years, choosing to rely on its recently formed law and justice unit, whose correspondents are John Miller and Terry Moran, formerly of Court TV.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Working Days and Nights at NBC -- David Bloom and Claire Shipman, White House correspondents for NBC News, now divide their time reporting for "NBC Nightly News" and "Today." (NBC): Ron Allen has reported on Yugoslavia not only for "NBC Nightly News," but also for the network's "Dateline," MSNBC and CNBC. Among the Downsized -- Last years, ABC News chose not to renew contracts of five correspondents including, clockwise from top left, George Strait, Mark Mullen, Tim O'Brien and Jim Laurie. (ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (64%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (64%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (62%); 

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (50%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (64%); MICROSOFT CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (88%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); REFUGEES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); 

PERSON: MIFFLIN, LAWRIE DIANE SAWYER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



416 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: The Net's Real Business Happens .Com to.Com;
A Market That Dwarfs Retail E-Sales

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
Each month, Patricia Ruszkay, a purchasing agent for BOC Gases, a global distributor of industrial gases with American headquarters in Murray Hill, N.J., pulls a chair up to a computer, logs on to the Internet, and looks for a bargain.
In this case, the bargain involves not only the price of the product, but an entire cost-saving process set in motion when the on-screen "order" button is clicked. 
 Nearly 7,000 miles away from New Jersey, in a Japanese gas processing plant, a BOC supplier receives the million-dollar order for tungsten hexafluoride, a highly toxic gas used in semiconductor manufacturing, among other purposes. And within minutes, some 2,500 miles miles from Murray Hill, a BOC distribution center in San Diego receives electronic notice from Japan that the shipment is on the way.
No multilingual phone calls or faxes required. No written purchase orders, invoices or shipping notices to lose. And, because the entire process takes place on the World Wide Web, there are no extra charges for handling the order over a special long-distance data network -- which until a few years ago would have been the only way to conduct business electronically.
BOC makes some $20 million worth of purchases from the Japanese supplier a year, and BOC officials say the Internet will save the company several hundred thousand dollars annually.
There may be more headlines about retailers selling books and compact disks on line, or consumers Web-auctioning the contents of their attics to one another. But in terms of dollars and impact, the real electronic-commerce action these days is the business-to-business transactions quietly taking place among companies like BOC and its suppliers and customers.
In 1998, American companies had $43 billion worth of sales to one another over the Internet, five times the consumer retail total, according to Forrester Research, a market research firm in Cambridge, Mass. Within four years, Forrester says business-to-business sales on line will reach $1.3 trillion, or 9.4 percent of corporate America's purchases.
Another research firm, the Aberdeen Group, is even more exuberant in its calculations of business-to-business E-commerce, estimating that the market may now be 10 or more times larger than the on-line consumer arena, and hold at that level.
Word early this year of strong on-line Christmas sales "put visions of sugar plum fairies into people's heads," said David Alschuler, a vice president at Aberdeen, which is based in Boston. "But the fact is, business on the Internet is cutting significant costs out of the supply chain, with better procurement and resource planning," Mr. Alschuler said. In the long run, "that will have a far bigger impact than what you buy from Amazon.com," he added.
While computer companies like Cisco Systems and Dell Computer have been the notable leaders in business-to-business E-commerce organizations in other lines of business have also joined the parade.
Harley-Davidson, Mobil Oil and Los Angeles County are among the disparate cases cited by Alyse Terhune, an analyst with the Gartner Group, a research firm in Stamford, Conn., as evidence that business-to-business E-commerce "is absolutely proliferating beyond the high-tech companies now, into just about everything."
Mobil, for instance, recently implemented an Internet ordering system for its roughly 300 lubricant distributors, saving the company $100,000 a year in ordering costs, and cutting the error rate for such orders from 30 percent to virtually none, Ms. Terhune said.
Certainly, E-commerce has brought fundamental change to businesses like BOC Gases. Its British parent, the BOC Group, has been pushing for on-line supplier and customer transactions throughout its multinational operations, which include a wide variety of warehousing, distribution and cargo-handling services. And the benefits transcend mere back-office efficiency.
Alex Cahill, a BOC purchasing manager in Murray Hill, cites the example of tungsten hexafluoride. The company sells the gas in six-foot steel cylinders that are worth $10,000 each when filled, making for an unwieldy, expensive inventory.
"In previous years, our stock has been bloated to accommodate for miscommunication, upturn in demand, returns or problems with quality," Mr. Cahill said. "So it was typical to have three months of inventory in the system -- which could be between 50 and 60 cylinders, with a bunch en route."
The primary reason for such "blind stocking," as Mr. Cahill put it, was the inefficiency of the order fulfillment process. "We have quite a lot of people interested in each purchase order," he said. "All that communication was handled through faxes, E-mails or the phone, one on one -- which is great until someone goes on vacation or sick leave, or they leave the office for a few hours, or transcribe something incorrectly."
Under the system, which the San Diego site put in place in March 1998, BOC negotiates a bulk purchase with suppliers for a year's worth of gas, and posts the information on a restricted-access Web site. This site, or "extranet," is accessible only to select BOC suppliers and customers, and to BOC employees like Ms. Ruszkay who place orders by choosing from an on-line catalogue of gases that has been screened for price and selection, based on the bulk purchase agreement.
As the order progresses through delivery, both the supplier and BOC will update the Internet order page, noting the shipping dates, quantity, and shipping method. This gives key personnel instant access to the order's status, which cuts down the need for correspondence, slashes the amount of time spent processing purchase orders and greatly reduces the opportunities for human error.
Perhaps more significantly, Mr. Cahill said the system's precision had enabled the company to reduce substantially the number of filled cylinders it keeps in stock, saving his division "several hundred thousand" dollars in annual inventory costs.
Fulton Wilcox, BOC's director of technical business development, conceded that the estimated $60 million worth of business the company transacted last year on the Internet represents but a tiny portion of BOC's annual revenue of $1.2 billion. But because the buyers using the system tend to be the biggest and most valued of BOC Gases' customers, dollar volumes tell only part of the story, he said.
"Even if we had the hard numbers of exactly how much in sales we do on the Internet," Mr. Wilcox said, "it's still chump change compared to what it's doing to deepen the customer relationship and reduce the overall cost of ownership." He was referring to the costs a customer incurs not only in buying gas from BOC, but in storing and tracking it.
That seems to be the case with the military contractor Raytheon Systems, one of BOC's key customers. In 1997 BOC approached what was then the Hughes Aircraft Company (Raytheon merged with Hughes later that year) and offered to put its catalog of gases on an extranet and let the company order around the clock, if necessary. The customer accepted, and now orders as many as 30 cylinders of gases each week for its El Segundo, Calif., plant, for use in research and development.
Despite such headway, there are speed limits on the growth of corporate E-commerce.
While the overall size of the business-to-business market dwarfs the consumer market, the rate of E-commerce adoption among corporations has been -- and will continue to be -- much slower, says Chris Davis, a vice president CSC Inc., an information technology consulting concern.
"The business-to-business space is just a lot more complex," Mr. Davis said. "And organizations don't always behave like consumers."
With layers of bureaucracy to navigate, and with procurement and sales methods ingrained in the corporate culture, he said, those who champion E-commerce within corporations must be prepared to move slowly.
Indeed, "the sun and the moon and the stars have to line up to make this work," said Mr. Wilcox, of BOC. "We're so intertwined with a customer and their processes, we can't just do things suddenly without re-engineering the whole process. That's why business-to-business E-commerce will have a more organic growth than the flash growth on the retail side."
And unlike consumer-oriented E-commerce, there are no ready-made software programs sophisticated enough to quickly apply to most business situations. Analysts and industry executives note that the requisite business-to-business software tends to be expensive -- often more than $1 million for the initial software license, from vendors like Ariba Technologies Inc. and Spaceworks Inc. And making the system fit the specific needs of a particular company, not to mention keeping it in tune, typically requires an internal support staff as well as continued consultation with the software vendor.
"For every dollar that businesses will spend on the packaged application, they'll spend $5 to $50 on system development and integration," said Ms. Terhune, the Gartner Group analyst.
BOC was pulled into E-commerce by a longtime customer, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which has been buying gases from the company since 1989 for use in science experiments and other purposes. Four years ago, seeing the Internet's potential for more efficient business practices, M.I.T. persuaded BOC and another of the university's big vendors, Office Depot, to offer their products for sale in virtual catalogues. Like BOC, Office Depot gave it a try, liked what it saw and has since become an E-commerce evangelist.
BOC hired I.B.M. in early 1996 to custom-design its extranet. But the system also includes a large amount of software written by BOC's own engineers, which helped keep the initial outlay below $1 million, according to Mr. Wilcox, who said annual maintenance now ran around $150,000.
Beyond money, though, companies embarking on E-commerce must also become accustomed to doling out ample portions of trust. BOC, for example, gives its suppliers unprecedented access to its own inventory data, in order to keep its stockpiles replenished. And BOC customers like M.I.T. give BOC access to their cost accounting systems, to avoid having to re-enter data as an order works its way through the process.
Such trust is a departure from traditional business practices, Mr. Wilcox conceded. "But somebody's got to be willing to do something a little differently for this to work."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A parts-order page from Harley-Davidson's H-D Net, the E-commerce network through which the company communicates with dealers. (pg. C6)
 
Chart/Photos: "Order It, Truck It, Use It"
Even when buyer and seller are near each other, as are a Raytheon SYstems site and a BOC Gases distribution center outside Los Angeles, Internet commerce can streamline transactions
 
1. At Raytheon, in El Segundo, Calif., Kerri Wilkerson, an environmental researcher, uses her company's custom page on the BOC Gases on-line catalogue to reorder argon gas, which she needs for a piece of laboratory equipment.
 
2. At BOC Gases, in City of Industry, Calif., Sheri Dahlgren, the site services manager, is able to track the status of customer orders like Ms. Wilkerson's.
 
3. After a Raytheon order arrives electronically at the BOC Gases warehouse, drivers like Gary Corriston load their trucks as specified in the digital bill of lading.
 
4. At Raytheon, it is the job of a BOC employee, Daniel Mata, to manage the customer's inventory of gases.
 
5. As Mr. Mata completes Ms. Wilkerson's order, he uses a scanner to record the delivery - data that will be uploaded to BOC's on-line ordering system.
 
6. In the lab, Ms. Wilkerson measures water samples to be tested by the machine in front of her -- a plasma emissions spectrometer, which uses argon gas to detect metals in water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ABERDEEN (CO) CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); ABERDEEN GROUP INC (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABERDEEN (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (90%); INDUSTRIAL GAS MFG (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (73%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB; ALSCHULER, DAVID ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



417 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Patents;
New thrills from New Zealand: Strapped down and harnessed, piloting a 60-horsepower aircraft.

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
STRUNG across a valley in Queenstown, New Zealand, is an amusement park ride that makes bungee-jumping look tame. It combines bungee features with elements of trapeze and aircraft flight, allowing thrill-seekers to swing through the air at the end of a tethered cable at speeds up to 120 miles an hour, piloting a one-man craft shaped like a B-movie rocket ship in any direction they want.
Neil Harrap invented and built the ride he calls Fly by Wire. Now he has won a United States patent for his daring toy and is scouting locations in this country. 
 Stringing it across the Las Vegas Strip, he says, would be a good place to start.
Mr. Harrap, a property developer in Wellington, New Zealand, got the idea for his ride in the middle of the night a few years ago. "I woke up at 4 in the morning with the idea for a swing that would move in figure-eights," he said while in New York last week. "It was a swing that could change directions in the air, and out of that came the seed of an idea."
That seed grew into a design for a narrow, missile-shaped plane with a cutout for a pilot and powered by a 60-horsepower aircraft engine. A single pilot, lying on his stomach, is strapped into the craft with a five-point harness and ankle clips. His arms extended in front of him, and he controls steering and acceleration with his hands.
In New Zealand, the aircraft is suspended above ground from a cable tethered to a line strung across a canyon. In the United States, Mr. Harrap plans to anchor that line from towers.
"It's 1,400 feet across and 340 feet from the ground," he said. "A single wire, three-eighths of an inch in diameter, comes down from that, and it carries the weight of the plane and pilot and takes care of the additional G-forces generated, because it can pull up to three times gravity during the middle of the flight."
"There's sufficient strength in the steel cable to accommodate that," he continued. "We're running the cable at 10 percent of its load capacity. There's no single load path so there's no single path to break and be catastrophic."
The craft has a conventional-shaped tail for stabilization, a five-bladed rear-mounted propeller inside a circular drum that looks like a giant fan, and a four-stroke aircraft engine. At the beginning of the ride, a winch lifts the plane seven or eight feet off the ground.
"It pulls the plane backward the same way you'd pull a child back on a swing, up to the desired height for launch," Mr. Harrap said. "At any point on the way up, the pilot can release. He can get a little way up and think it's scary and release from there, giving it as much acceleration as he wants. The steering is controlled with both hands, pretty much the way you steer a bike."
The winch can lift a the craft clear of its launch deck and a cautious pilot can simply "give it a bit of gas and fly in a circle, backward, forward or wherever he wants to go," Mr. Harrap said. More daring pilots who let the winch retract to maximum will be released at a 200-degree angle.
"Away he goes, all downhill and up the other side," said Mr. Harrap, who has ridden his own ride. "Lots of people go slowly at the start, but within a minute or two they're flying as fast as they can as they gain confidence."
Pilots can then swish through the air in figure-eights, loops, arcs or wild swings. Mr. Harrap is careful to point out that his ride "doesn't fly; it's a powered swinging device."
"Because of the design, the worst that can happen if you don't pilot it well is it will go slow," Mr. Harrap said. "We believe it is completely idiot-proof. No matter what you do, you can't hit yourself, anyone else or any object. It's not powerful enough to go up and strike the support cables."
Mr. Harrap says none of his passengers in New Zealand have "gotten sick, taken a fit, or passed out" on the six-minute ride, which costs about $70.
He was in the United States to scout locations in Las Vegas, Texas and California and to talk to tower construction companies. "The first in the U.S. will be in year-round locations," he said. He has a Web site at www.flybywire.co.nz featuring a short snippet of video of the New Zealand ride. He also holds patent 5,782,699.
 
Insurance For Trade Secrets
In a nod to the growing value of intellectual property as a business asset, the CNA Financial Corporation of Chicago has announced that it is offering what it says is the first insurance policy to cover financial losses from the theft of trade secrets.
"The secrets must be owned by the company and be in a recorded form, either formulas, patterns, compilations, programs, devices, methods, techniques or processes," CNA said. "The policy includes coverage for ideas designed for commercial use, which have economic value because they are not being generally known."
The plan could pay benefits up to $10 million.
 Patents may be viewed on the Web at www.uspto.gov or may be ordered through the mail, by patent number, for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNA (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6399 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); 

COUNTRY: NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (77%); WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (58%); 

COMPANY: CNA FINANCIAL CORP CNA FINANCIAL CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CNA FINANCIAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (77%); WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; AMUSEMENT PARKS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INSURANCE; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE PATENTS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); AIRLINES (77%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (70%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: HARRAP, NEIL MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



418 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Santo Domingo Memo;
Caribbean Unity? Bananas Are Getting in the Way

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, April 18

 BODY:
Venezuela's New President, Hugo Chavez Frias, was supposed to deliver a closing thank you speech at this weekend's Caribbean summit meeting here, but speaking with the candor of the recently elected, he grumbled that he had already attended six meetings of heads of state in only 73 days in office.
"We go from summit to summit, and our people go from abyss to abyss," he said, telling the 24 other leaders of the Association of Caribbean States meeting here on Saturday that they shared the "same drama of terrible underdevelopment." 
 "What is the central core of all these summits?" he asked. "What is the nucleus? I think we are a little disorganized. I think we should review all these summits to be more efficient."
The one-day session here was called to come up with a plan of action for the next century. Leaders of countries with a Caribbean coastline, including Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico, Fidel Castro of Cuba and Andres Pastrana of Colombia, signed a declaration declaring tourism the industry that can best increase employment and income in the region.
The declaration also condemned the transport of nuclear waste shipments through the Caribbean and committed the members to pursue bilateral pacts and tariff concessions for regional trade and investment.
But even though these countries have been striving for unity to cope with economic globalization, the gathering failed to reach consensus on some issues, underscoring the diversity of the countries involved.
Among the most divisive issues was the recent World Trade Organization ruling allowing the United States to impose sanctions against European-made goods in retaliation for the European Union's trade preferences for bananas grown in its former colonies.
The banana dispute pits small eastern Caribbean islands like St. Vincent and the Grenadines against Central American countries, where Chiquita Brands and other American companies are major banana growers that contend they will be hurt by the European Union's quota system.
The issue was a hot topic in a closed-door session here in which Mr. Castro railed against the trade group, which regulates international trade, as "a fearful instrument of re-colonization and exploitation of the world," the Cuban Government news media reported today.
Since the Association of Caribbean States represents countries on both sides of the banana dispute, it was up to the eastern Caribbean islands that oppose the ruling to issue their first formal statement on the decision. They did today, under the aegis of another regional group, the Caribbean Community.
Their statement called the ruling "the single most dangerous threat to the economies of the Caribbean banana exporting countries" and warned that putting it into effect "without consideration of the vulnerability of the Caribbean banana industry would lead to severe social and economic dislocations."
Speaking at the opening of the meeting in the National Theater here Friday night, President Jules A. Wijdenbosch of Suriname used the banana dispute to call for increased concerted action by Caribbean states. He said that the battle was being fought by two major economic powers, the European Union and the United States, without direct involvement by the smaller countries most affected.
One of the association's goals is for members, who represent 200 million people and a gross domestic product of $500 billion, to coalesce in a trading bloc that would be one of the largest in the world.
"More than ever it's our responsibility to demonstrate our presence in international and regional organizations and demand that our concerns are an integral part of the agenda, the debate and the general solutions," Mr. Wijdenbosch said.
But Presidents also used the summit meeting, the second held by the five-year-old group, to seek cooperation on more individual matters. President Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador petitioned Mr. Castro "for clemency in the name of the families and all Salvadorans" for two Salvadorans who face the death penalty in terrorist bombings in Havana.
Presidents Pastrana and Chavez, who have had differences over Mr. Chavez's sympathy for Colombian guerrillas, also held a private meeting.
And the Dominican President, Leonel Fernandez, has clearly solidified the Dominican Republic's new stature as an international player after years of isolation under a strongman, Joaquin Balaguer.
Because of the presence of so many world leaders, parts of the city were turned into maximum security areas, with armed military police along many streets and with metal detectors at hotel entrances.
Mr. Castro, as usual, drew special attention even though he kept a low profile and made no public speeches. He signed the meeting's joint declaration even though it included a provision to "reaffirm our commitment to preserve, consolidate and strengthen democracy, political pluralism and a state of law as the privileged backdrop that allows respect, defense and promotion of human rights."
But the declaration also urged the United States to end the Helms-Burton law, which toughened the American trade embargo against Cuba, and it endorsed the principles of sovereignty and nonintervention "and the right of each country to build its own political system in peace, stability and justice."
The Foreign Ministry here restricted a news conference after the signing of the "Declaration of Santo Domingo" Saturday night to allow not more than two questions of any leader, apparently to keep someone like Mr. Castro from monopolizing the spotlight.
But in the end, Mr. Castro bowed out of the news conference, the only leader to do so. He cited "unavoidable commitments," standing up two reporters -- one of them from the exile press in Miami -- who were assigned the two questions for him.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clockwise from left, Presidents Fidel Castro, Jules Wijdenbosch, Hugo Chavez Frias and Armando Calderon Sol at a summit meeting Saturday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (74%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; QUOTAS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA HUGO CHAVEZ (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



419 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Ben S. Stephansky, 85, Dies; Former Ambassador to Bolivia

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Ben S. Stephansky, President John F. Kennedy's Ambassador to Bolivia at a complex time in its history, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 85.
Dr. Stephansky, whose Ph.D. was in economics from the University of Wisconsin, was labor attache at the United States Embassy in Mexico City in the mid-1950's. President Adolfo Lopez Mateos later remembered him as "the one American who really understood Mexico." 
 Dr. Stephansky became a career Foreign Service officer in 1956 and was labor adviser in the State Department's Bureau of Inter-American Affairs from 1957 to 1960.
After Kennedy took office in 1961, "able young career men were promoted to Ambassador, such as Stephansky in Bolivia," a close Kennedy aide, Theodore C. Sorensen, wrote later.
By then Bolivia was in the 10th year of the period that has been called the Bolivian National Revolution. It followed a rebellion in 1952 touched off by the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement, the first party in the country's history to gain widespread popular backing. At that time, the party was a broad alliance and it had left and right wings.
The 1952 rebels, including miners and national policemen, got the Bolivian Army to surrender after three days of fighting, and the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement leader Victor Paz Estenssoro became President for four years. Mr. Paz Estenssoro was at first a neutral force between his party's wings.
An American political scientist, James M. Malloy, wrote in his book, "Bolivia: The Uncompleted Revolution," (Books on Demand, 1970) that in the Kennedy Administration, there was "a positive aim to make Bolivia a showcase of guided 'democratic revolutionary' change.' "
"Previously high aid commitments were increased and broadened," Mr. Malloy wrote, "and a pro-revolution Ambassador, Benjamin Stephansky, was sent to La Paz," Bolivia's capital.
With that, President Paz Estenssoro, who was re-elected President in 1960, came to believe that Kennedy would be unstinting in giving aid to Bolivia. As Mr. Malloy put it, "Paz then decided to go all the way with the United States and to shape his regime in close accordance with the expectations of the Alliance for Progress," the aid program for Latin America that the Kennedy Administration began in 1961.
In May 1961, on the day before Kennedy formally nominated Dr. Stephansky to be Ambassador, the White House announced that the United States had offered, and Bolivia had accepted, nearly $10 million in immediate economic aid and relief.
In addition, President Paz Estenssoro, Washington and Bonn approved a plan under which the Inter-American Development Bank, the United States and West Germany would make capital and technical expertise available, and Bolivia would reduce and discipline its work force.
But in August 1963, the Bolivian Cabinet resigned in a crisis brought on by the Paz Government's inability to put into effect a plan to rehabilitate Bolivia's large and vital tin-mining industry. The plan entailed dismissing 2,000 workers. Confrontations between the Bolivian Government and tin miners continued. By late 1963 things began to get out of control.
By then it had also been announced that Dr. Stephansky would not stay on as Ambassador past the end of 1963 and would return to Washington because of his wife's health. Then, in 1964, the Bolivian military overthrew the Bolivian Government, and a junta controlled by Gen. Rene Barrientos Ortuno took power.
Dr. Stephansky went on to become, in 1963 and 1964, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs. He was executive secretary of the United States-Puerto Rico Commission on the Status on Puerto Rico from 1964 to 1966 and Deputy United States Representative to the Organization of American States with the personal rank of Ambassador in 1967 and 1968. Later, he held various posts in foundations and other fields.
Dr. Stephansky was born in what is now the Ukraine and was brought to the United States in 1915. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1939 and his doctorate in 1950.
He is survived by his wife, Anne; two sons, Evan of Alexandria, Va., and Tom of Denver; a daughter, Kate Stephansky of Olney, Md.; and two grandchildren. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (67%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA; BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (67%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN SERVICE DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HISTORY (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); LABOR FORCE (64%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (62%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHANSKY, BEN S; PACE, ERIC JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



420 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE BOMBING;
NATO Said to Focus Raids on Serb Elite's Property

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
In listing its bombing targets in Yugoslavia, NATO has generally described them as installations that feed Slobodan Milosevic's war machine. What the alliance does not usually say is that some of the refineries and factories have also been chosen as targets because they are run by close cronies of the Yugoslav President.
The idea, according to senior NATO and Pentagon officials, is to undermine Mr. Milosevic's control by chipping away at his system of political and economic patronage. 
 "He doesn't care if his soldiers die in Kosovo, as long as he stays in power," one senior military officer said of Mr. Milosevic. "But if you blow up some things near and dear to him -- or to somebody close to him -- then that could have an effect."
While NATO's bombing seems to have solidified popular support for Mr. Milosevic, the officials said they hope the attacks against some of the targets will turn loyal supporters against him by destroying their own sources of wealth and power.
The bombing continued this weekend, with 500 sorties flown on Saturday afternoon and overnight in what NATO said were its most active 24 hours yet of the war.
 Yugoslav media reported several powerful detonations around Novi Sad, Serbia's second-largest city, early Monday, according to The Associated Press. There were no reports of casualties, but the damage was described as "great," including a missile strike on the provincial government building. Tanjug, the state-run news agency, also reported attacks on the capital, Belgrade, and in the towns of Paracin, Kraljevo and Sremska Mitrovica.
Yugoslavia's oil and gas industry has suffered enormously under NATO's strikes. While the stated aim of those attacks has been to choke off fuel to the armed forces operating in Kosovo, the strikes must also be a blow to Dragan Tomic, the director of Yugo Petrol, who as Speaker of the federal parliament in Belgrade is a close ally of Mr. Milosevic.
On April 9, a missile strike destroyed the Zastava automotive plant in Kragujevac. Its director, Milan Beko, has served under Mr. Milosevic as Minister of Privatization.
Four days earlier, NATO struck a tobacco factory and warehouse in Nis, and damage to tobacco plants has been reported in other cities. According to American intelligence reports, a major player in Yugoslavia's tobacco distribution is Mr. Milosevic's son, Marko.
So far, economic and industrial targets have made up a small portion of NATO's targets. Of the roughly 200 targets attacked since the air war began on March 24, a dozen have been strictly industrial sites, like factories. That percentage grows when those targets are combined with fuel storage and ammunition factories.
As NATO presses on with bombing that has done little to stop the purging of ethnic Albanians from Kosovo, some NATO and Pentagon military leaders have advocated striking still more economic and industrial targets, the officials said.
These commanders, including the alliance's supreme commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, believe that NATO has to intensify its efforts to undermine Mr. Milosevic's 11-year grip on power.
"If we continue sustaining this air campaign and intensifying it in a way that he sees he is slowly but surely starting to lose those instruments of power that keep him in power, then he's going to have to make a decision," Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen testified on Capitol Hill last week.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, disclosed that NATO's political leaders had not yet approved a select group of targets for heavy attack. He said NATO warplanes could begin striking such targets "in a few days."
General Shelton declined to identify those targets, but the highly classified list includes additional industrial and economic sites, according to a senior Administration official. Attacking those targets would carry a much higher risk of civilian casualties and cause the kind of profound disruption of life for ordinary Yugoslavs that NATO has so far sought to avoid, that official said.
Such strikes could also undercut NATO's stated rationale for its bombing: to weaken the military and police forces involved in the killings in Kosovo rather than wage war on the people of Yugoslavia.
Nevertheless, the Pentagon and NATO are looking for ways to intensify pressure on Mr. Milosevic's Government.
"We're trying to make the price higher and higher," a senior military official said.
While not aiming directly for Mr. Milosevic, American and NATO officials say they are hitting what they call his four pillars of power: the political machine, the communications media, military and security forces, and the economic system.
A senior American military officer said the targets on NATO's list included strikes at "the things that keep him afloat." The idea, the officer said, is to instill fear in those whose economic standing depends on Mr. Milosevic, to make them think, "We didn't bargain for this."
"If you can achieve that mindset, then who knows what will happen?" the officer said.
Allied planes and missiles have struck half a dozen targets thought to be part of the "national command authority," several of them in and around Belgrade. These include headquarters and bunkers believed to be used by political and military leaders, although it was unclear whether anyone was killed or injured.
In Yugoslavia's state-run economy, virtually any industrial or economic activity can be linked to Mr. Milosevic's Government. Ever since the former Yugoslavia collapsed into its rump state today, and the economy was hit by comprehensive sanctions from 1992 to 1995, Mr. Milosevic, a former banker and Communist bureaucrat, has been able to tighten his control of the little business left. Agriculture, fuel, manufacturing and exports and imports are operated by Mr. Milosevic's cronies virtually as private fiefs, American officials say.
Mr. Milosevic has used funds gained from industry and his cronies mostly to finance an effective security apparatus to maintain political control, according to experts and intelligence estimates.
But his family and associates also have benefited, living far better than most Yugoslavs, whose standard of living has fallen sharply since the country began to disintegrate in 1991.
Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, challenged Mr. Milosevic last week to admit to his people that he has bought three villas in Greece. European news reports also have spoken of funds funneled to Swiss banks through French accounts held by Mr. Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic.
The holdings of the couple's son, Marko, are believed to include a discotheque and a tobacco distribution network. Before the war, Yugoslav media reported that he had announced plans to open a Disney-style theme park, called Bambiland.
Yugoslav officials have estimated damage from the bombing as high as $100 billion, including damage to roads, destroyed bridges and railways, which has the ripple effect of disrupting commerce. But there are no signs that Mr. Milosevic has lost the backing of his key supporters.
One American Government official familiar with the Yugoslav economy said the prospects were slim that Mr. Milosevic's cronies, however battered, would turn on him. "A scenario that would involve these guys acting as a group seems fairly unlikely," the official said. "They don't have anywhere to turn besides Milosevic."
Mr. Milosevic appoints the executives of each of the country's monopolies, many of whom also serve as Government ministers. Dejan Kovacevic, the Minister of Construction, also heads Mastrogradnje, one of the country's largest construction firms. Zivota Kosic, the Minister of Energy and Mining, also heads a natural resources concern called Duvanksa Industrija Nis. Nis is southern Serbia's largest city, and has been a repeated target of NATO bombs.
Another state-run industry that has been severely disrupted is ammunition production, which is overseen by an umbrella organization headed by Maj. Gen. Jovan Cekovic.
Although the industry has a clear military function, it has also historically provided Yugoslavia with hard currency, and the destruction of the plants has crippled another source of profits for people close to Mr. Milosevic, officials say.
Pentagon and NATO officials declined to provide a list of economic or industrial targets that have been struck. But Yugoslav news agencies have reported strikes against several, including a small-plane manufacturer in Pancevo, a construction-equipment plant in Krusevac and a plastics factory in Pristina.
NATO has repeatedly struck a plant in Cacak that Yugoslav officials portrayed as an appliance factory. Reporters allowed to tour the scene described seeing wrecked vacuum cleaners. Western officials say the plant also included an underground ammunition section.
NATO's targets are chosen by military aides to General Clark in the alliance's headquarters in Brussels, as well as in Germany and Italy. These officers work closely with a little-known cell within the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon, called J-2T, where officers consider a range of technical aspects, including the most effective weapon and where exactly to aim it.
The planners weigh the military value of a target against the drawbacks, including the risk to pilots if the target is in a heavily defended area and the risk to civilians if it is in a heavily populated area.
Lawyers at the Pentagon and at NATO's headquarters review each target carefully to justify striking it. Hitting industrial and economic sites requires walking a fine line, the officials said.
Mr. Cohen said President Clinton, like leaders of other major NATO countries, review the target list.
NATO officials insist the bombing is taking a toll, wearing down Yugoslav supplies and resolve. But the political process has kept some targets off the list. General Clark has sought approval -- so far unsuccessfully -- to attack another of the pillars of Mr. Milosevic's support: the communications industry. Control of radio and television has been a mainstay of the Yugoslav leader's 11 years in power. One radio station is owned by his daughter, Marija.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: An oil refinery burned yesterday near Belgrade after an attack by NATO jets; 500 sorties were flown in a day. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Fires raged near Novi Sad, Serbia, yesterday after an oil refinery was hit. Raids are said to single out the property of allies of Serbia's leader. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 
Map of Yugoslavia highlighting areas attacked by NATO. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BOMBINGS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TOBACCO FARMING (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; MYERS, STEVEN LEE SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999



421 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Bush's Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
In our last episode, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas reluctantly began to expound on his foreign-policy mindset. To continue:
On our involvement in Kosovo: "NATO has to be confident in its capacity to help preserve the peace in Europe. So I think it is in America's strategic interest in this case, that once we are in the position we got into, that Mr. Milosevic be taught a lesson." 
 On refusing to use trade as a lever to influence China on human rights or global behavior: "I think it is to the advantage of U.S. producers and to the country to have admitted China to the World Trade Organization. . . . Unilateral sanctions often don't work."
(Some of us in what Bill Clinton derides as "the anti-China crowd" think Bush may be Peking too soon.) But now to Russia:
Should the International Monetary Fund lend more money to Moscow? "No." Why not? "Because I don't think we ought to be throwing good money after bad. Russia needs to convince lenders, both private and public," says Bush, "that money is secure within Russia, that the rule of law matters, that corruption has been held in check. I think we should have learned our lesson."
Should we get tougher with Russia on its aid to Iran on nuclear development? "Yes. I think that we ought to be firmer about the distribution of weaponry around the globe, whether they come from China or Russia. This ought to be a high priority for a President."
In light of talk about moderation in Teheran, do you favor a rapprochement with Iran? "I am not prepared to talk about that. I will at some point in time."
What about missile defense? "I think that we ought to move aggressively forward with the development of the capacity to deploy an intermediate- and long-range anti-ballistic-missile system. You bet."
And with China positioning missile batteries across the Taiwan Strait, would you make a missile defense available to our ally? "Well, I have not made up my mind yet. I think it is hard to make it available to Taiwan until it is available to the United States."
How would you handle the Russian claim that our 1972 ABM treaty precludes a missile defense? "I think we need to move aggressively forward, and if that means eventually renegotiating the treaty with the Russians, we ought to do so."
But when they don't want to renegotiate it? "I know they don't. We ought to give them first the opportunity to renegotiate and if they don't, then move forward with abrogation." (Score one for hawkish adviser Richard Perle.)
On Iraq, do you think President Clinton is doing enough to stop Saddam Hussein from developing weapons of mass destruction? "My gut tells me no, but I do not have enough facts to be able to back that up with a statement."
On North Korea, would you continue to supply Pyongyang with oil, food and nuclear power plants while it refused inspection? "Now we are going to inspect them after we have given them six months' warning. I am worried about that. So should our friends in the Far East be worried about it."
The foreign-policy split in the G.O.P.? "There are some very powerful constituencies in both parties that advocate isolationism and protectionism. It may surface to the point it becomes a wildfire or it may not. I believe that rhetoric and policies that would isolate us would be a mistake for our country . . . America is too great to withdraw."
Then why hasn't he been speaking out on foreign affairs at such a crucial moment? "I am thinking about it, but if and when I criticize this Administration, I intend to do so when people are paying attention."
But many already are. Nettled by the suggestion in that last question that he is manipulatively sitting on his lead, he leaned forward and volunteered:
"I am a candidate and I am going to be the nominee. I think I am going to be the President. I have got strong principles and values, and I am surrounding myself with good, smart people who understand my principles and with whom I am going to become more knowledgeable. I am going to understand specific areas better and better as time goes on." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (54%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; CHINA; RUSSIA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (54%); TEXAS, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (88%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TRENDS (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



422 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO DROPS. The European single currency fell further as the Balkan war threatens to inflate European nations' budget deficits and slow economic growth. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0638, down from $1.0702 Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan. 4 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); TRENDS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



423 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: With Smoked Salmon and Beer, Berlin Greets Parliament

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, April 19

 BODY:
With solemnity but little pomp, and with Europe at war in the Balkans, Germany returned its Parliament to the Reichstag today, 66 years after a fire there ushered in Hitler's dictatorship.
The first session in the renovated Reichstag, now topped with a glass dome to symbolize the political transparency on which Germany has based its postwar revival, marked the dawn of the "Berlin Republic," a phrase dear to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, but one he insists will bring no fundamental changes in German policy. 
 Addressing the Parliament today, Mr. Schroder, a Social Democrat, said that to equate the word "Reich," or "empire," with "Reichstag" would be "as senseless as equating Berlin with Prussian glory and German centralism."
He went on, "The federative model of German politics is well-established and in no way endangered."
With its many ghosts -- of imperialism, fascism, communism and division -- Berlin has stirred some old fears that its periods as a German capital are synonymous with disaster. The Chancellor appeared concerned to allay any such concerns, saying it was the success of "Bonn democracy" that "makes the Berlin Republic possible."
Mr. Schroder spoke in a 669-member chamber of striking informality, evidently intended to counter any imperial nostalgia that the massive stone edifice begun under Bismarck might kindle.
Gray carpets, simple mauve seats, low public galleries, and the glass cupola and big windows give a feeling of accessible ordinariness. Hovering over the proceedings is the pudgy eagle known affectionately as "the fat hen" that adorned the Parliament in Bonn, retained after several leaner models more suggestive of Prussian virility were rejected.
No national anthem was played, and no thumping rhetoric delivered, as speaker after speaker emphasized that the westward-looking democratic values that have anchored Germany's postwar rebirth and then unification in 1990 would remain strong.
Sensitivity about the move back to Berlin has been heightened by the fact that the first session in a building touched by so many of this century's conflicts took place as war raged in the Balkans with German planes taking part in NATO attacks on Serbia.
Mr. Schroder did not directly refer to the violence, but said he was convinced that a united Germany, assuming new political responsibilities after its long postwar tutelage, must be prepared to fight for "a Europe of human rights that does not exclude anybody on our continent."
To applause, he quoted the Albanian writer, Ismail Kadare: "The Balkans is the yard of the European house, and in no house can peace prevail so long as people kill each other in its yard."
But Ludger Volmer, a Deputy Foreign Minister, echoed growing uneasiness in his environmentalist Green Party, the junior member of Mr. Schroder's governing coalition. "We are initiiating our Berlin Republic in the midst of a European war," he said, "and I am one of the people responsible for a policy that leaves me no reason to be optimistic or happy."
Referring to the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, Mr. Volmer added: "We failed in our first goal of bombing Milosevic back to the negotiating table within two or three days, and we failed to stop a genocide in Kosovo. Now we must persevere, but the outlook is not encouraging."
On Sunday, Gila Altmann, a Green and a Deputy Environment Minister, added her signature to a petition for a cease-fire already signed by about 1,000 Green Party members. These divisions in the party are putting pressure on Joschka Fischer, the Green Foreign Minister, although his support in the country has risen since the bombing began.
Despite the crisis in the Balkans, the overriding symbolism today was of European and German reconciliation. The first sitting came almost exactly a decade after the fall of the Berlin wall, which the Reichstag abutted during its long postwar hibernation.
Accepting a symbolic key to the Reichstag, Wolfgang Thierse, the Speaker of the Parliament and a man who grew up in Communist East Germany, stood in bright sunshine beneath the old inscription "Dem Deutschen Volke"' -- "To the German People."
He said the words, betrayed by those who repeatedly trampled the democratic aspirations of Germany in this century, symbolized the grave responsibilities of every member of Parliament on a day when "all doubts are set aside, all resistance overcome, all problems solved."
Mr. Schroder took a somewhat more somber view, noting that every sixth Berliner is unemployed and suggesting that the special role of Berlin would lie in overcoming the lingering mistrust between the eastern and western parts of the country and so completing the unification of Germany
"Just as Bonn stands for the western part of the republic, Berlin symbolizes a united Germany," he said. He accused "a sheltered generation" of westerners of arrogance in criticizing easterners without asking, "What would we have done under similar conditions?"
Growing support from the eastern part of the country was critical to Mr. Schroder's victory in elections last year, and he has made the struggle against high unemployment in formerly Communist areas a central plank of his Government's program. Up to now, results have been modest.
The Reichstag, which was completed in 1894, was a center of war propaganda during World War I, the Parliament of the Weimar Republic and the site of a Nazi exhibition in 1938 on "The Eternal Jew." After the war, the border between the British- and Soviet-occupied sectors ran through its damaged masonry.
It has been restored at a cost of about $330 million by the British architect Sir Norman Foster, who said today that the "openness, fairness and resolution" with which the project was completed said much about the qualities of German society.
Many of the major architectural projects in Berlin have been entrusted to foreign architects, causing some grumbling here. The decision clearly reflects the great sensitivity of architecture in a city where Hitler's architect, Albert Speer, laid out elaborate plans for "Germania," the planned capital of the 1000-year Reich.
After the inaugural session, the members of Parliament and Mr. Schroder moved upstairs for a jolly reception, at which an oompah band performed as meatballs, smoked salmon sandwiches and beer were consumed with evident relish.
The scene was extremely relaxed and low key, very much Prussia-lite. "Behind its monstrous dress, what we now have inside the Reichstag is a rather modest woman," remarked Michael Naumann, the State Minister for Culture.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Reichstag building, above, as Berlin turned out yesterday to welcome the German Parliament, in an unpompous ceremony, to its old new home. (Agence France-Presse); No Prussian glory was evident, but instead an oompah band and meatballs. Below, the Reichstag afire on Feb. 27, 1933. After the blaze, Hitler ruled by decree. (The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (70%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY); BONN (GERMANY); GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (70%); BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; HITLER, ADOLF (1889-1945); SCHROEDER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



424 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: The One Place NATO Could Turn for Help

BYLINE: By Jack F. Matlock; Jack F. Matlock, a professor at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, is a former Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia.

 BODY:
There cannot be security and stability in the world without Russia.
NATO intensifies its bombing of Serbia to the cheers of a fair portion of the Western political and intellectual elite. The bombing has rallied Serbs behind their dictator, Slobodan Milosevic, who is using the air strikes as a cover and pretext for mass expulsions, massacres and hostage taking. As NATO bombing continues, outrages against the Kosovars seem certain to continue. The weapons used against the Kosovars are not easily countered from the air. 
 The air war is clearly making things worse on the ground -- much worse, in fact, so pressures build to use ground troops. If they had been available for intervention from the start of the bombing, they might well have served both as a deterrent to Mr. Milosevic and as real protection for the Kosovars if that deterrence failed.
But they were not available, and it will be weeks before they could be, even if NATO governments decide today to accept the political risk of sending them. By the time a few hundred thousand troops could be assembled to invade, Kosovo would probably be emptied of civilian Kosovars, except for those forced to become human shields for Serbian forces dug into a rugged terrain.
The Clinton Administration seems unwilling to admit the obvious: that NATO bombing has been an unmitigated disaster for all the parties we set out to protect. So far, the only gainers have been Mr. Milosevic and his henchmen, whose support in Serbia, once wobbly, is now solid.
Will that change if bombing continues, on and on and on? Perhaps. But don't count on it. So long as Mr. Milosevic can pose as the ultimate barrier to the loss of the sacred ground of Kosovo, a Serbian patriot set upon by more powerful foreign bullies, few Serbs will take the risk of opposing him.
Any successful strategy for peace depends on splitting the Serbian people from Mr. Milosevic's leadership. Waging war against Serbia as a whole has the opposite effect.
The negative reaction in Russia to NATO's attack was predictable. After all, we had assured Russia during the debate on NATO enlargement that there was nothing to fear. NATO, we said, was a purely defensive alliance, constitutionally incapable of undertaking offensive military action. (We had earlier given Mikhail Gorbachev to understand that NATO's borders would not be moved further east if Germany were allowed to unite and stay in NATO.)
Now Russians are asking, Who's next? Will Moscow be bombed if the war heats up again in Chechnya?
The antics of those Russian politicians talking irresponsibly of military support for Serbia, or a union of Serbia, Belarus and Russia, can be dismissed as lunatic ravings. They are symptoms of a feeling of weakness and humiliation, the irresponsible rhetoric of politicians who need issues in the coming election to distract public attention from their failures to deliver on campaign promises.
Nevertheless, while such posturing may have no practical effect on military operations in the Balkans, the emotions it exploits will complicate and delay the development of democratic institutions and economic reforms in Russia. It also increases Russian resistance to further reduction of nuclear weapons.
Russian official policy, as distinct from the emotional rhetoric that now poisons the air, has actually been moderate and responsible.
Russia was willing to join others in a diplomatic effort to deter ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, but held fast throughout to three positions: 1. That the threat of NATO bombing was unlikely to cause Mr. Milosevic to accept the Rambouillet agreement. 2. That bombing would not solve the Kosovo problem but make it worse. 3. That military action should not be taken against a sovereign country without United Nations sanction.
The first two points have proved absolutely correct. The third should give the United States and its NATO allies serious pause. Are we willing to concede to other military alliances a right to intervene at will outside their borders? To do so would seem exceedingly unwise.
But unless we do, how can we expect countries outside NATO to accept it as prosecutor, judge, juror and policeman of Europe? Is that its purpose? It would be different, of course, if the United Nations Security Council or the General Assembly had asked NATO to enforce a decision it had made.
Once again, we are finding that it is much easier to start a war than to end it. So much damage has already been done that any feasible solution now will be significantly worse than what might have been obtained by diplomacy without threats to bomb, or by diplomacy backed up with a credible threat to invade. But we cannot make effective policy on the basis of what might have been. We also cannot make effective policy if we are blinded by rage and frustration, however justified.
The United States must find the wisdom and will to lead the alliance away from the tragic quagmire that looms ahead if it stays on the current course of war against Serbia. So long as we make Serbia the enemy, rather than Slobodan Milosevic, the Kosovo problem will not be solved. Neither partition nor independence nor indefinite foreign occupation will work in the long run without the acquiescence of the Serbian people.
It should also be clear by now that there is no way to restore stability to the Balkans without Russian cooperation. President Boris Yeltsin's pledge yesterday not to intervene militarily gives us an opening to discuss the shape of a settlement and Russia's participation in it.
 Other non-NATO countries can also be helpful: President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine recently made proposals that should be taken seriously and explored. If the Kosovar refugees are to return and life is to be restored to the rubble, policing by outsiders will certainly be required. NATO alone is not capable of imposing a settlement that will last.
Stability in the Balkans must be treated as a problem for all of Europe and countries as important as Russia and Ukraine made part of the solution, not forced to be part of the problem.
Why not declare victory (we have seriously degraded Mr. Milosevic's military potential, as we set out to do), end the bombing and welcome active Russian participation in reaching a settlement? Given what has happened, it certainly will not be easy, but let's face it: bombing Serbia is not working.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Paul Sahre)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELARUS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; UKRAINE; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELARUS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); 

PERSON: MATLOCK, JACK F JR (PROF); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



425 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: F-15's Attack Iraq Defenses, U.S. Reports

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, April 19

 BODY:
United States fighter planes attacked defense sites in northern Iraq today, after Iraqi radar had locked on them, American officials said.
Air Force F-15E's dropped laser-guided bombs near Mosul, according to a statement from Incirlik Air Base in southern Turkey, the American base 250 miles north of Baghdad. The statement said that damage was being assessed and that all aircraft left the area safely. 
 A statement by the Iraqi armed forces said the bombing was directed against "service installations and heroic weapons sites." The statement, carried by the official Iraqi News Agency, did not mention damage or casualties.
It was the second time since March 15 that American or British aircraft had struck northern Iraq. On Saturday, the Iraqi armed forces said, four civilians died and one was injured when American jets struck military sites in the area. British and American planes have focused on defense sites in northern and southern Iraq since December, when Iraq started challenging allied planes that enforce the no-flight zones.
Baghdad does not recognize the legitimacy of the zones and has pledged to oppose them. The zones were set up after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 to prevent Iraqi planes from threatening rebels.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
'Oil for Food' Fund Soars
 UNITED NATIONS, April 19 (Reuters) -- Iraqi oil revenues are up sharply since oil prices began surging two months ago, but are still short of needs, a spokesman for the United Nations "oil for food" program said today. The revenues, intended to ease hardships under United Nations economic sanctions, are projected at $3.7 billion for the first half of the year, $700 million above the amount projected in February, the spokesman, John Mills, said.
The program overseers said in their weekly report that Iraqi exports dipped, to 1.77 million barrels a day last week from an average of 1.9 million in the previous four weeks. Exports would have to rise to 2.1 million barrels a day if Iraq is to export all it has contracted to sell by the end of the current phase of the program, which ends late next month. Barrels of oil have 42 gallons.
But even if it meets its targets and oil prices stay high, the revenue, which buys food, medicine and other exceptions to the embargo, will still be far short of needs, Mr. Mills said. The Security Council raised the production limit. But decrepit equipment can produce only two million barrels. Of the money raised through exports, one-third is deducted for war reparations, victims' payments and United Nations costs.
France, Russia and others say foreign investment should be allowed to repair the equipment. But the United States and Britain have blocked that. The allied bombing, in retaliation for the expulsion of United Nations weapons inspectors, has over five months hit a major refinery and its two main pipelines.
The United Nations said yesterday that Iraqi pipeline flow and ports were not disrupted last week. The United Nations said it approved contracts last week for a total of 5.6 million barrels of crude. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (93%); GULF STATES (79%); FRANCE (53%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); ANKARA, TURKEY (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (93%); GULF STATES (79%); FRANCE (53%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); ANKARA, TURKEY (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); LASERS (78%); LASER WEAPONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



426 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1915 words

HEADLINE: A Real-World Economist;
Krueger And Empiricists Challenge Theorists

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
As he pulled up the charts one after another on his office computer, Alan B. Krueger grew enthusiastic. Children do better all through their schooling, he declared, if by fourth grade they have spent just one year in a class of only 15 students. The tall green bars and rising red lines on Mr. Krueger's charts told the story in simple-to-understand detail. Poor children in particular are helped by early attention from a teacher.
"Small classes later on may have less impact," Mr. Krueger said, rehearsing the punch line of a speech he would give a few days later. "I infer that very young children become socialized in a small class. They learn how to behave in school. They are more likely to take the S.A.T. exams in high school, and to earn more later as workers." 
 Empirical economists talk that way, as if each finding is a nugget of fresh, significant insight. Many are. No group within the profession is challenging accepted wisdom more vigorously. But Mr. Krueger does so rather cautiously. For all his enthusiasm, he is reluctant to prescribe small classes as national policy without more research.
There is a reason for his hesitation. Empirical economists may be increasingly pressing theorists, but abstract thinkers still dominate academic economics with their explanations of how people and markets behave. Theory, for example, says that employment should fall when the minimum wage rises, but empiricists have uncovered exceptions. And for all the profession's emphasis on education as the key to higher earnings, economic theory fails to provide a blueprint for improving learning. Empiricists are trying to fill the breach with studies like Mr. Krueger's.
Many are less than a decade out of graduate school, which makes Mr. Krueger, a 38-year-old Princeton University professor and the editor of the prestigious Journal of Economic Perspectives, already an elder statesman of the growing empirical movement. It is bringing to economics what amounts to a reality check.
"Theory is being forced to be much more specific," said George Akerlof, a theorist at the Brookings Institution who, like some others of similar bent, is now doing more empirical work. "The whole intention of empirical economics is to force theory down to earth."
And the profession is paying heed. The John Bates Clark Medal, awarded by the American Economic Association every two years to an outstanding economist in his 30's, has gone to empirical economists the last two times. In 1995, the winner was David Card, a frequent collaborator of Mr. Krueger's, and in 1997 to Kevin Murphy at the University of Chicago.
Mr. Krueger is frequently mentioned as a candidate for this year's award, to be selected this month. So is Andrei Shleifer of Harvard, a Russian-born empiricist, whose specialty is the study of financial markets operating in different legal and political settings. There are other possibilities as well for perhaps the most prestigious award in economics short of the Nobel.
Empirical economists test a theory or a belief by coming up with just the right data or observations. Mr. Krueger likens the process to medical research, where a drug is the equivalent of a theory or belief and the empirical work is the testing among thousands of people, some of whom get the drug and some a placebo. He came to his conclusions about class size after tapping into a Tennessee study of 11,600 children who had been placed randomly in small or large classes.
Public schools might work just fine if tax money were channeled to the right programs, like small classes for very young students, says Mr. Krueger, whose mother and wife are public school teachers, and whose two children attend a public elementary school here. So why doesn't he campaign for such reforms?
"If you ask, 'Why am I cautious,' there are two reasons," he said, talking across the wide, curved desk in his sunny office. "The strength of a researcher is not in being an advocate, but in making scientific judgments based on the evidence. And empirical research teaches us that nothing is known with certainty -- even the class-size results, which seem so definitive."
That reluctance is at odds with Mr. Krueger's public profile. A Democrat, he served as chief economist at the Labor Department in 1994 and 1995. The journal he edits has a circulation of 25,500, making it the most widely read in the profession. He pumps out half-a-dozen research papers a year, a considerable pace in economics, and travels every other week to seminars and conferences. "What I like to do is give the data its own voice," he said.
Inevitably, however, Mr. Krueger is asked for recommendations. What, his audiences want to know, should be done? That's when he balks. He is not in the business of making value judgments, he insists. Once economists get caught up in value judgments, they become reluctant to accept the findings of their own research when the findings contradict their beliefs. "Astronomy was plagued until the 16th century," he said, "by value judgments about the centrality of man."
So he declines to advocate President Clinton's proposal to spend $12 billion to reduce class size nationwide. Convincing as it seems, the Tennessee experiment, started in 1986, is not sufficient, he says. Further research is needed involving at least 12 states.
"Economics has to construct theory very slowly, block by block," he said. "There is no other choice."
Mr. Krueger's cautiousness represents one strong faction of empirical economics. Edward Leamer, at the University of California at Los Angeles, belongs to another, less diffident group. He insists that theory and findings be yoked together, early on.
Mr. Leamer studies the impact of trade on American wages. His thesis is that there is an impact, one broader and more complicated than standard theory has acknowledged. An apparel worker, for example, driven from his job by cheap imports, may seek work as a waiter or warehouse hand, perhaps driving down wages in those fields. A few years later, apparel imports decline, but Japanese machinery imports rise and machinery workers accept a wage freeze. The impact on wages continues, with different evidence.
"Economics is so theory-driven," Mr. Leamer said, "that until you have a theory that explains your findings, people will retain the old theory. You need new theory to drive out old theory."
Mr. Krueger resists that lesson, but he is still reeling from it. So is Mr. Card, now at the University of California at Berkeley. A minimum-wage study they did in the early 1990's, while Mr. Card was at Princeton, has brought them much more notoriety than they ever anticipated. They found an eye-catching exception to the theory that employment falls when the minimum wage rises.
The study was very much in character for Mr. Krueger, who has a knack for spotting what empiricists call "natural experiments," where chance circumstances usually create the experimental variables. (In laboratories, in contrast, scientists can control the variables much more precisely.) Mr. Card, for instance, now wants to study what happens when affirmative action is eliminated, as it has been at the University of California. Mr. Krueger came up with a question that can be answered empirically: What are the best black students doing, turning to universities elsewhere or still enrolling in California?
"If you look at my curriculum vitae, you will find more papers that no one has read than in Alan's, 10 to 1," Mr. Card said. "He does not waste time on research he does not consider important and practical."
Their minimum-wage research, initiated in the late 1980's, soon after Mr. Krueger got his Ph.D. at Harvard and came to Princeton as an assistant professor, seemed important to both of them. Their first studies involved California. But when New Jersey in 1992 raised its minimum to $5.05 an hour from $4.25, they jumped at the opportunity for a natural experiment.
Entrenched theory holds that supply and demand tend to balance each other. When the minimum wage rises enough, as it did in New Jersey, then demand among employers for minimum-wage workers declines. So when Mr. Krueger and Mr. Card surveyed fast-food restaurants in New Jersey, compared them with nearby Pennsylvania, where the minimum was unchanged, and found no impact on employment, there was an uproar.
They published their study in 1994, just as Mr. Krueger started at the Labor Department, where his boss, Robert B. Reich, was pushing for an increase in the minimum wage, later enacted. Card-Krueger, as they came to be known, were accused by some economists of shoddy research for a political goal and blithe disregard for theory.
"They don't root their findings in existing theory and research," says James J. Heckman, a University of Chicago labor economist and empiricist. "That is where I really deviate from these people. Each day you can wake up with a brand new world, not plugged into the previous literature."
Mr. Krueger and Mr. Card have reaffirmed their minimum-wage findings. They insist that what happened in New Jersey could be explained without upending supply-and-demand theory. Special circumstances played a role. The New Jersey minimum had been unusually low. Employers found they could fill vacancies more easily at the higher wage, and employee turnover fell, two cost savings. Another wage increase might indeed reduce employment, Mr. Krueger says.
But for all his caution, standard theory is no longer the same in his eyes. "We tested the supply-and-demand curve," he said, "and it needs to be amended."
Empirical economics blossomed in the mid-20th century, feeding on the growing quantities of economic data the Government collected and the new polls that explored consumer attitudes and behavior. "There was this outpouring of data in the 50's and 60's, and then it became dangerous, all these numbers and not enough theory to organize them," Mr. Heckman said.
Theory, with its emphasis on abstract, mathematical modeling, took command by the 1960's. Only in the last decade has empirical economics gradually regained a footing, first in labor economics and then in finance, education and trade. Computers make the data easier to process.
By the early 1990's, nearly half the articles in economics journals dealt with empirical research, up from 27 percent in 1960, one study showed.
Mr. Krueger grew up in Livingston, N.J., where his father, an accountant, still practices. His mother taught first grade in nearby East Orange. "The Worldly Philosophers," Robert Heilbroner's tales of the great economists, first aroused his interest. But he followed his sister, Barbara, to Cornell and enrolled in its School of Industrial and Labor Relations, thinking he would become a lawyer. "It seemed like what people went into," he said, "and I had seen the movie 'Norma Rae.' "
His goal soon changed. As research for a paper, he found himself analyzing data on productivity and wages, a typical empirical inquiry. He took to the statistical detective work. From Cornell he went on to Harvard, earning a doctorate in economics in 1987. Within weeks of graduation, he had landed at Princeton, thanks to a chance encounter with Orley Ashenfelter, a Princeton labor economist.
There he soon fell in with Mr. Card, forming one of the more enduring collaborations in economics. It is a collaboration, as Mr. Ashenfelter put it, that "reports results neither man had anticipated beforehand."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan B. Krueger at home in Princeton, N.J., with his children, Benjamin, 8, and Sydney, 6. In addition to research, writing, editing a journal and teaching, he was also the chief economist at the Labor Department in 1994 and 1995. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Alan Bennet Kruger"
 
BORN: Sept. 17, 1960, Newark.
 
HOMETOWN: Livingston, N.J.
 
EDUCATION: Livingston High School; B.S. Cornell University, 1983; A.M., economics, Harvard University, 1985; Ph.D, economics, Harvard University, 1987.
 
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: 1987-92, assistant professor of economics and public affairs, Princeton University; 1994-95, chief economist, United States Department of Labor; 1992-present, Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs, Princeton University.
 
FAMILY: Married to Lisa Krueger; one son, Benjamin, 8; and one daughter, Sydney, 6.
 
HOBBIES: Tennis, family activities and travel.
 
Chart: "Young Turks"
The John Bates Clark Medal has been awarded by the American Economic Association every two years since 1947 to an outstanding economist under 40.
 
JOHN BATES LARK MEDAL RECIPIENTS
 
1997: Kevin M. Murphy
Current Affiliation: University of Chicago
 
1995: David Card
Current Affiliation: University of California at Berkeley
 
1993: Lawrence H. Summers
Current Affiliation: Treasury Department
 
1991: Paul R. Krugman
Current Affiliation: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
 
1989: David M. Dreps
Current Affiliation: Stanford University
 
1987: Sanford J. Grossman
Current Affiliation: University of Pennslyvania
 
1985: Jerry A. Hausman
Current Affiliation: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
 
1983: James J. Heckman
Current Affiliation: University of Chicago
 
1981: A. Michael Spence
Current Affiliation: Stanford University
 
1979: Joseph E. Stiglitz
Current Affiliation: World Bank
(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (69%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (69%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY; AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; CLARK, JOHN BATES, MEDAL BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KRUEGER, ALAN BENNETT (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



427 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: 2-State Dispute Over Shipping Lines' Lease Clouds Port Authority Future

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The intense political wrangling to keep two large shipping companies from leaving New York Harbor for Baltimore has opened a larger struggle between New York and New Jersey that threatens to tear apart the Port Authority, the agency created 78 years ago to prevent such squabbling.
The first casualty could be the loss of Sea-Land Service and Maersk Line, which together handle a quarter of the container cargo moving through the harbor and are to decide in less than two weeks whether to expand operations here or move to Baltimore. 
 Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey is eager to sign new leases with Sea-Land and Maersk, which employ 1,000 workers at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal in New Jersey and have a $100 million payroll. But New York's Governor, George E. Pataki, has refused to sign new leases until Mrs. Whitman agrees to an overhaul of the authority that would give New York what it says is a fairer share of its revenue.
Fifty-one days after Sea-Land's lease expired in Elizabeth, the two states remain deadlocked. Last Tuesday, Sea-Land accepted a jury-rigged final proposal that includes $120 million in state funds from New Jersey, knowing that Governor Pataki could veto the deal at any moment. The dispute is delaying action on billions of dollars in Port Authority projects at the three airports it operates.
"We haven't seen this level of brinksmanship before," said James Hughes, dean of the School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "If we lose these shipping companies we may well come to the breaking point. But I don't know how you'd disentangle. I can imagine years and years of wrangling over the Port Authority's assets."
Organized in 1921, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was established to bring order to the chaotic movement of cargo between ships and the region's railroads. To bolster the regional economy during the Depression, the agency built the Holland Tunnel and the George Washington Bridge. Later it took over the three major airports in New York City and Newark and built the container port in Elizabeth.
Assessing whether the Port Authority has helped New York or New Jersey more depends on the period under discussion and the standard used for judgment.
In the last 10 years, the agency invested $2.8 billion on projects in New York and $1.7 billion on those in New Jersey. But Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and Governor Pataki's chief negotiator, contended that money earned was more important than money spent.
Mr. Gargano said that Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports and the World Trade Center had generated net income of more than $2 billion since 1980. During that same period, the PATH trains and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, which Mr. Gargano described as New Jersey assets, lost $2.8 billion. Newark International Airport, however, contributed net income of $775 million.
Mr. Gargano argued that the proposed lease for Sea-Land and Maersk would entail $600 million in subsidies over its 29 years. "The major problem is the tremendous drain that New Jersey facilities have on Port Authority results," he said.
Calculating that the Sea-Land lease provides the best opportunity to wrest financial control of the Port Authority from New Jersey, Mr. Pataki is demanding a reorganization that would give each state control of assets on its own land. Shared assets like bridges and tunnels "would be subject to our mutual agreement on what is fair."
Rejecting that ultimatum, Governor Whitman has said that she is willing to explore reorganization and a more equitable division of revenue. New Jersey officials say New York fails to recognize that the agency provides regional benefits, like public transportation that makes it easier to get to Manhattan and reduces vehicle congestion. Sea-Land and Maersk, they say, are keystones in a $20 billion industry whose 166,500 employees are evenly divided between New York and New Jersey.
In any event, apportioning the benefits from some shared assets may be impossible. The World Trade Center, for example, was built in Manhattan for $1.6 billion in a deal that created the PATH system for New Jersey. Its value is predicated, at least in part, on the subways and PATH trains beneath it.
"The kinds of assets the Port Authority has historically been able to provide benefit people in the entire region," said Rick Mroz, special counsel to Mrs. Whitman.
The squabbling is marked by posturing. Mrs. Whitman's call for regional cooperation belies her administration's continual efforts to lure the New York Stock Exchange, the New York Yankees and dozens of companies to her state, a process that has cost New York billions of dollars in corporate tax breaks and cash.
And although Governor Pataki bemoans the subsidies that New Jersey is so willing to provide Sea-Land and Maersk, he never questioned the multimillion-dollar subsidies he and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani provided Reuters in Times Square, or International Business Machines Corporation in Westchester County.
The two governors did agree on paring the work force by 25 percent on a payroll they agreed was fat and ineffective. And last year, the Port Authority's gross revenues rose to $2.4 billion and net income to $167 million.
The two states have different versions of when the current dispute started and who started it.
In New York's version, the spark came not with the Sea-Land and Maersk negotiation but with two large airport projects: Continental Airlines' renovation of two terminals at Newark and American Airlines' proposal to build a new $1 billion terminal at Kennedy. At the agency's December board meeting, Louis Eisenberg, the chairman of the Port Authority and Governor Whitman's principal negotiator, raised questions about the American deal, as did one New York commissioner.
There was no rancor, but afterward, Mr. Gargano said New Jersey had suddenly linked the American Airlines deal to the harbor deal. Mr. Gargano said Mr. Eisenberg had told him New Jersey "would not take action on any other project unless the deal with Sea-Land-Maersk was approved."
"I was appalled," Mr. Gargano said.
New Jersey officials deny that account. If there was a serious rift between the governors it was not apparent for another month, as the two sides continued to work on a new lease proposal for Sea-Land and Maersk.
In January, Mayor Giuliani reiterated his intention to seize control of Kennedy and La Guardia when the Port Authority's lease with the city expires in 2015. Governor Whitman responded, "It would make no sense for the Port Authority to make any new investments in the New York airports until their future is determined."
Rather than retaliating, Mr. Gargano sided with New Jersey several weeks later when he said Mr. Giuliani's interference was jeopardizing work at Kennedy. At the time, Mr. Gargano said that agency's record had improved in recent years, citing more than $4 billion in projects for new terminals, rail links and road work at Kennedy.
On Feb. 16, Mr. Gargano began secret negotiations with Mr. Eisenberg at his office on the Upper East Side over a "global settlement" of disputes between the two states. The executives quickly agreed to sweeten the shipping deal by $120 million and secure a new lease with the companies and sell the World Trade Center. New York, in turn, would get a special allocation of $120 million for New York projects.
But the agreement disintegrated shortly before the Port Authority's Feb. 25 board meeting, when Mr. Gargano told Mr. Eisenberg that Governor Pataki would not approve the deal. Governor Whitman then ordered Mr. Eisenberg "to pull everything" on the agency's agenda, three New Jersey officials said. The agency's staff was ordered out of the room as New York and New Jersey commissioners exchanged heated complaints.
It was immediately clear that the agency would not be able to conclude a new deal with Sea-Land by the time the company's lease ran out on Feb. 28 and that there would be no action on the American and Continental airport projects. The stalemate continued through the March board meeting. The agency failed to deliver a long-promised lease proposal to Sea-Land on March 11, allowing Baltimore to continue to add more incentives to its offer.
Since then, Mr. Gargano said, Governor Pataki reviewed the operating results at the Port Authority and the demand to overhaul the agency came to the fore. New York raised the ante for the special allocation to $400 million for New York projects, to offset port investments on the Jersey side of the river.
In letters to Governor Pataki on March 29 and April 6, Governor Whitman offered $250 million, saying that although she was willing to discuss restructuring the agency and raising PATH fares, the Sea-Land lease must be concluded first.
"I think we can both agree," Mrs. Whitman wrote in the April 6 letter, that the loss of jobs, "if Sea-Land-Maersk were not retained in the port, would be unacceptable to both of us as well as the people of the region."
To meet a Sea-Land deadline, Governor Whitman added the $120 million to an earlier lease proposal that the companies had rejected. But the continuing viability of the offer is dependent on the two states overcoming their differences.
"Sea-Land and Maersk retreated under cover of a New Jersey offer," a Port Authority executive said. "They'll hold off on their decision as long as possible. But I don't know if we're going to make it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Container cargo is loaded on a barge in the Sea-Land Service area at the Elizabeth Marine Terminal in New Jersey. Sea-Land and Maersk, which handle a quarter of the port's container traffic, could decide to leave.
(John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (92%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (92%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE; PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (92%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (95%); PORT AUTHORITY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEA-LAND SERVICE INC; MAERSK LINE; PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ NEW YORK YANKEES (95%); PORT AUTHORITY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK HARBOR; BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); AIRPORTS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); VETO (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (71%); EDDIE GEORGE (70%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); JAMES E HUGHES SR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



428 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Latest Banana Squabble: Retroactivity of Sanctions

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 19

 BODY:
The United States received the World Trade Organization's formal approval today to impose $191.4 million in punitive tariffs on European goods in a protracted fight over European banana imports. But the effective date of the sanctions was still in dispute.
This was the first time in the four years the world trade group has been in existence that such retaliation had been approved, and only the second such retaliatory step going back to its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
 The United States has maintained for six years that the European Union unfairly discriminates against bananas from Latin American countries, which are exported by United States companies, in favor of those grown and exported from former European colonies, mostly in the Caribbean. The trade group agreed with the American complaint earlier this month, although it reduced the amount of damages sought from an original $500 million.
On Friday, the European Trade Commissioner, Sir Leon Brittan, said that the European Union would not appeal. But today, the Europeans' delegate here, Roderick Abbott, disputed the effective date of the sanctions, arguing that they were not retroactive to March 3, the date the United States contended.
"It is normal that a decision applies from the day that it was taken," Mr. Abbott said.
Rita Hayes, the American representative to the World Trade Organization, disagreed and said that notice of the tariffs was to be posted in today's Federal Register.
Tariffs of 100 percent will be levied on a range of products that includes lithographs, bed linens, German coffee makers, French plastic handbags, cardboard packing material and lead-acid storage batteries. The sanctions effectively double the price of the imports and make them much harder, if not impossible, to sell in the United States.
European and American officials will meet Wednesday in an attempt to negotiate an effective date for the sanctions, but a compromise could be difficult. Mr. Abbott noted that the interests of the two sides "are diametrically opposed."
If the two sides cannot agree on a date, the matter would be referred to the W.T.O.'s dispute-resolution process. But Mrs. Hayes said the United States and the Europeans could settle the matter themselves.
The retaliatory sanctions were the first to be imposed since 1952, when the Netherlands acted against the United States in a dispute over dairy products. The victorious Dutch got approval to reduce the number of tons of American ground wheat flour they imported.
In addition to approving the American sanctions today, a three-member arbitration panel reaffirmed the illegality of the European Union's banana-import policy.
It is unclear how or even when the Europeans will amend that policy, but Mr. Abbott said today that any changes soon were unlikely because of European Parliament elections in June and the likelihood that a new executive agency would not be in place in Brussels until the fall.
Mrs. Hayes said the "only deadline is compliance," leaving the European Union presumably in the position of paying the tariffs until it makes its import policy acceptable. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH RODERICK ABBOTT (84%); RITA HAYES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



429 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Rally throughout Asia buoys hopes that the economic crisis has bottomed out.

BYLINE: By Mark Landler 

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
STOCK markets from Seoul to Singapore soared yesterday, extending a rally that many analysts here say is proof that foreign investors are returning in large numbers to the recession-ravaged economies of Asia.
"Something fundamental is happening," said Miron Mushkat, the head of global economics and strategy at Indocam Asia Asset Management in Hong Kong. "The markets are telling us that the Asian crisis is over. We are moving from deeply dark territory into the land of the light." 
 The euphoria was most pronounced in Jakarta, where shares jumped 6 percent. But the gains were impressive throughout the region: 5.7 percent in Seoul, 5.5 percent in Manila, 4.1 percent in Singapore, 2.7 percent in Kuala Lumpur and 2.2 percent in Hong Kong. The Nikkei index in Tokyo was the only exception, falling 1.1 percent after a string of powerful gains last week.
Beyond the general sense of a better tomorrow, analysts said several factors were driving the rally. Asia governments have aggressively cut interest rates; yesterday the Philippines cut rates for the 10th time this year. Foreign fund managers are steering more money to the region, in part because technology stocks in the United States have lost some of their appeal after troubles at the Compaq Computer Corporation.
"When people shift out of technology stocks, they tend to look at cyclical stocks and overseas opportunities," said Marc Faber, the managing director of Marc Faber Ltd., an investment firm in Hong Kong. "People do feel that the crisis in emerging economies worldwide is over."
The rally in Asian stock markets is all the more remarkable because it bears no relation to the underlying health of the economies. In Hong Kong, for example, the Government announced yesterday that unemployment reached a record rate of 6.2 percent in the three months from January through March.
Undaunted, the Hang Seng index roared past the 13,000 level before closing at 12,766. The Hang Seng, which has risen 17 percent just this month, has regained all the ground lost since it crashed in October 1997.
Some investors said they were alarmed by this performance because it could lull Government officials and business executives into thinking the hard times were over. With money pouring into Asia, some analysts predict that efforts toward fundamental economic changes could bog down in Indonesia, Thailand and elsewhere.
"This was a once-in-a-blue-moon opportunity to sort out Asia," said Bill Kaye, the senior managing director of the Pacific Group, an asset management firm in Hong Kong. "But here we are, back to the races."
Mr. Faber said, "The big problem with falling interest rates and surging liquidity is that it lessens the incentives to pursue deep reforms."
Although Indonesia recently took steps to clean up its insolvent banking system, the restructuring process has been extremely slow in Malaysia and Thailand. In Hong Kong, the robust market belies an economy that has failed to reduce costs, despite a reduction in costs of rival economies like Singapore.
Analysts said that shares in Seoul rose yesterday because of hopes that South Korea's largest conglomerates were finally reducing their bloated operations. The leaders of LG Group and Hyundai Group, for example, met yesterday to discuss plans for a subsidiary of Hyundai to acquire LG's electronics unit, LG Semicon.
Investors are not alone in expressing optimism that the worst is over in Asia. The Asian Development Bank said yesterday that the economic downturn had hit bottom and predicted that the region would return to economic growth this year.
In its annual report issued in Manila, the president of the bank, Tadao Chino, said: "I believe the worst of the financial crisis is over. This gives us reason to expect that 1999 will see notable improvements in economic performance." The development bank predicted that Asia, excluding Japan, would grow at an average annual rate of 4.4 percent in 1999 and 5.1 percent in 2000. That compares with 2.6 percent in 1998.
Though the performance of Asian stock markets is impressive, analysts pointed out two caveats.
First, the volume of trading on some markets -- notably Jakarta -- is much smaller than it was before the crisis. So a relatively small infusion of capital can cause a large percentage increase.
Second, investors are aggressively buying shares in major public companies like HSBC Holdings, the parent of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which hit an all-time high of $284 (Hong Kong), or $36.64 (United States), before closing at $280 (Hong Kong), or $36.12 (United States). But that does not mean that money is flowing to the small and medium-size companies, the backbone of many Asian countries.
"There is this disconnect between the large-cap stocks and the carnage of small companies down below," said John D. Pinkel, a partner at Shaw, Kwei & Partners Ltd., a Hong Kong fund that invests in smaller companies.
For all the caveats, forecasters do not see an end to the rally soon. As the sentiment about Asia improves, more fund managers in the United States and Europe are expected to divert capital to these markets.
"It's very difficult to predict anything when we make these qualitative leaps," Mr. Mushkat said. "Our year-end target for the Hang Seng was 12,000, which seems rather irrelevant right now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Hong Kong, unemployment may have reached 6.2 percent, but as seen in this electronic display, the Hang Seng index forged upward yesterday. It has regained all the ground lost since it crashed in October 1997. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (98%); HONG KONG (95%); INDONESIA (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (71%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (98%); HONG KONG (95%); INDONESIA (93%); SINGAPORE (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TRENDS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BONDS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



430 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing Compaq:Tasks for Next Chief

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
As the Compaq Computer Corporation begins its search for a new chief executive, it is clear that the prospective leader's first challenge will be to chart a course from the brick-and-mortar retailers that have been the company's lifeblood to the direct-sales model that is increasingly defining the industry's future, analysts and consultants said yesterday.
Eckhard Pfeiffer, 57, was dismissed over the weekend by Compaq's board, led by a company co-founder and its chairman, Benjamin M. Rosen. Earl L. Mason, the chief financial officer, also resigned to become chief executive at an unidentified company. The announcement came nine days after Compaq warned its first-quarter income would be about half what analysts had expected. 
 Compaq's problems stem from a strategy that has appeared to pull the company in opposite directions at the same time.
On one hand, it has struggled to compete in the personal computer market with the Dell Computer Corporation, which sells directly to buyers, avoiding the dealer channel and its markup, and builds each machine to order, keeping inventories and costs at a minimum. At the same time, Compaq, though its acquisitions of the Digital Equipment Corporation last year and Tandem Computer in 1997, has tried to become a major systems company, like the International Business Machines Corporation and Hewlett-Packard.
"It seems to me that Compaq's strategy has been unraveling for quite a few years now," said Regis McKenna, president of the McKenna Group, a management consulting firm based in Palo Alto, Calif. "They're caught between the low end and the high end, and that's why you see them constantly changing their mind. The first thing they have to do is figure out what they want to be when they grow up."
Mr. Pfeiffer succeeded Compaq's first chief executive, another co-founder, Rod Canion, in 1991, in a coup also led by Mr. Rosen. He aggressively lowered Compaq's cost structure to meet the challenge of new competition, and the reduced costs allowed the Houston-based company to gain the computer industry's leading market share while maintaining decent profit margins. But by the late 1990's, as Compaq embraced the sub-$1,000 PC, its growth came at the expense of profit margins.
About 18 months ago, Compaq announced that it was moving to a build-to-order business model, similar to Dell's, but that it would retain its traditional distribution through the dealer channel, as well. Although Compaq did reduce internal inventory levels, it has never matched Dell's operating efficiency, and it has continued to lag behind Dell in growth. Dell has systematically sought out Compaq's strongest markets, first in laptops, then in servers and work stations, and has gained market share in each.
Like Mr. Canion, who made an unsuccessful attempt to acquire Silicon Graphics in the late 80's, Mr. Pfeiffer looked to the high end of the market to differentiate Compaq. The Tandem and Digital acquisitions were meant to transform Compaq from the world's largest PC company into a fully integrated computer systems maker. Just as it had hassed I.B.M. in PC sales, so Compaq would come to lead the systems business, Mr. Pfeiffer predicted.
"The kind of goals he had sounded good to shareholders -- like being a $50 billion company by the year 2000, or to beat I.B.M. -- but they didn't have anything to do with customers," said Mark Anderson, president of Strategic News Service, a research firm based in Friday Harbor, Wash. "The new C.E.O. should look at everything Eckhard acquired and ask: did the customer benefit from that. If the answer isn't yes, they should get rid of it."
Mr. Anderson said he was not necessarily advocating the sale of Digital, Tandem or any of the smaller companies Compaq acquired in recent years, only their integration into a coherent strategy. "If you think of the Internet as the all-embracing future, as Ben Rosen seems to suggest from his statements, it's not hard to see how the parts of Compaq fit into that," he said. "The new C.E.O. should have a clear focus on a single business plan."
Perhaps the biggest challenge facing Compaq's next leader is how to differentiate the company's products at a time when the value of brands has been diminished and personal computers sell almost exclusively on the basis of price. While Apple Computer can command a small premium based on the ease of use or on the attractive design of its products, and Sun Microsystems flourishes as a high-end technology company identified with the Internet, most computer makers struggle to add value to a commodity product.
"The business has been assiduously destroying pricing and profitability, bent on self-immolation," said Seymour Merrin, president of Merrin Information Services, a consulting firm based in Palo Alto. "Compaq, more than any other vendor, has the opportunity to do what Robert Crandall at American Airlines did when he said, 'The time has come to stop killing ourselves.' The customer, if he perceives value, is willing to pay. What all the companies have failed to do, with Compaq right at the front, is to differentiate."
Dell prospers by offering performance at a price, rather than just a low price, and by making the purchasing process more pleasant, Mr. Merrin said. But he said he did not believe that Compaq should emulate Dell by eliminating the dealer channel.
"Compaq can't do that," Mr. Merrin said. "They have better distribution than anyone else. A good percentage of their customers are buying through dealers because they want to. What they should do is set up a totally separate business unit" for direct sales..
Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies, a consulting firm in Cupertino, Calif., agreed. "I don't think you can cut the channel off, but what you have to do is take off the price protection you give dealers," he said, referring to the common practice of reimbursing dealers for price cuts affecting current inventory. "It's a new world and a new economy."
The new chief executive Mr. Bajarin said, "has to build a model that says no matter what the customer wants to buy, no matter where they want to buy it -- on the Internet, by telephone, in a superstore -- Compaq has to make it available."
On a day of widespread losses among technology stocks, Compaq's shares closed yesterday at $22.75, down 87.5 cents, on trading of more than 38 million shares.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin M. Rosen, right, Compaq's chairman, in Houston yesterday with an interim leadership group of Robert Ted Enloe 3d, also seated, and Frank P. Doyle. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (98%); DELL (NASDAQ) (82%); IBMC (BRU) (82%); IBM (NYSE) (82%); IBM (LSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); TEXAS, USA (67%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (98%); DELL INC (82%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); TEXAS, USA (67%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); INVENTORIES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MARKET SHARE (67%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%); 

PERSON: PFEIFFER, ECKHARD; ROSEN, BENJAMIN M; ENLOE, ROBERT TED 3D; DOYLE, FRANK P; FISHER, LAWRENCE M BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



431 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: David, 71, and Joan McCall, 57, Die in Crash

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
David B. McCall and Joan Mills McCall, who excelled separately in the worlds of advertising, philanthropy and the arts and together as fiercely dedicated advocates for the world's displaced people, died in a car accident Sunday while on an aid mission in Albania.
Mr. McCall was 71. His wife was 57. The couple lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. 
 Mr. and Mrs. McCall, together with Yvette Pierpaoli, a well-known French aid worker, and their driver, were on their way from Tirana, the Albanian capital, to the northern town of Kukes, where tens of thousands of refugees who have poured out of Kosovo have congregated in recent weeks. The four were driving in heavy rain when their car missed a turn on a winding mountain road and plunged several hundred feet into a ravine, said Dennis Grace, a vice president of Refugees International, where both Mr. and Mrs. McCall served on the board. All four were killed.
Mr. Grace said that the McCalls were among their nation's most generous financial supporters of refugee aid. During their eight years of involvement with Refugees International, they participated in numerous missions to, among other places, Thailand, Cambodia, Somalia and Eritrea. They had traveled to Albania to explore the possibility of setting up a satellite radio network that would help refugee families separated by the chaos in Kosovo.
"The initial reports referred to them as two American aid workers," said Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States special envoy to the Balkans, who is chairman of Refugees International and was to be succeeded in that post by Mr. McCall later this year. "They would have liked that. They were highly successful financially and socially. They could have lived a comfortable life in New York with their family and friends. Instead, they repeatedly risked their lives in Southeast Asia, Africa and the Balkans to increase public awareness of the plight of people in need."
Mr. McCall was born in New York, attended the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., and briefly attended Yale before serving in the armed forces during the Korean War. He began his career in advertising in the mail room at Young & Rubicam in 1951.
From there, he joined Ogilvy & Mather, where he eventually was hand-picked by David Ogilvy, the agency's legendary founder, to succeed him as chief copywriter. At Ogilvy & Mather, Mr. McCall worked on campaigns for Sears, Roebuck & Company, Hathaway Shirts and Maxwell House coffee, for which he wrote the tag line "Coffee that tastes as good as it smells."
In 1961, Mr. McCall left Ogilvy to become co-founder of an agency, McCaffrey & McCall Inc. There, he helped create campaigns for a variety of companies, including Exxon, Tiffany and Mercedes-Benz. One particularly memorable television commercial created by Mr. McCall for Norelco showed Santa Claus sledding down a hill on one of the company's electric shavers.
"David really supported the creative side tremendously, often times to the exclusion of the account managers," said Tom Yohe, who was a creative director at the agency in the 1970's.
But it was McCaffrey & McCall's work for Mercedes-Benz that was probably most influential, setting the standard for how luxury cars are marketed in the United States.
The agency was acquired by Saatchi & Saatchi in 1983. Mr. McCall left five years later, eventually becoming a partner in the Sawyer-Miller Group, a political and corporate communications consulting firm in New York. At the time of his death, he was chairman of Shepardson Stern & Kaminsky, a communications, consulting and advertising firm based in New York that he helped found six years ago.
Throughout his career, Mr. McCall exhibited a strong passion for politics, education and human rights. In the 1960's, he served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the Congress for Racial Equality. Later, he was a founding member of the Central Park Conservancy and of Meals on Wheels.
He also used advertising to promote social causes. Mr. McCall helped organize agencies around the country to create ads opposing the war in Vietnam, a campaign called "Unsell the War." He created anti-tobacco advertising.
But he took most pride in "Schoolhouse Rock," an Emmy award-winning series of animated educational segments aimed at children that was shown on the ABC television network on Saturday and Sunday mornings from 1973 to 1985 and again in 1993.
Mr. McCall was married three times and is survived by six sons from his first marriage, John P. McCall, Peter Cortelyou McCall, and David Bruce McCall, Jr., all of New York City, and William Dudley McCall of Atlanta, Robert McCall of Seattle and Thomas Clement McCall of Easton, Md.; a sister, Margaret G. Wasley of Niantic, Conn., and six grandchildren.
He met his third wife at a party in Bridgehampton, and they were married in 1978. Born Joan Partridge Mills, and known as Penny, Mrs. McCall was born into wealth. Her mother was a member of the Ordway family, which helped found the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, or 3M.
Mrs. McCall grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and attended the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury. In addition to her refugee work, she devoted much of her life to collecting art and supporting artists. She served on the board of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in Manhattan and established the Penny McCall Foundation to support contemporary artists, especially women and minorities.
She was also a supporter of the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem and at the time of her death was working on an economic develop project in Harlem to set up an urban fashion design and manufacturing company in association with the Thurgood Marshall Academy.
Mrs. McCall is survived by her mother, Dorothy O. Mills of Greenwich; a daughter from a previous marriage, Jennifer McSweeney Reuss of Rowayton, Conn.; and two brothers, George P. Mills of New York City, and Sam Mills of San Francisco.
In recent years, the McCalls had focused much of their attention on the problem of land mines, which kill and maim thousands of refugees around the world each year.
Only a few months ago, the couple were instrumental in starting a new organization called the Independent Demining Assessment Center. Its aim is to bring new mine detection and removal technology to the areas of the world that need it, said Mr. Grace of Refugees International, which is helping to organize the center.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David McCall and his wife, Joan, at right, with Yvette Pierpaoli, on a 1998 aid mission to Cambodia. All three died in a car wreck in Albania. (Refugees International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ERITREA (79%); THAILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (62%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (93%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (93%); REFUGEES INTERNATIONAL (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ALBANIA; SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (91%); SOMALIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ERITREA (79%); THAILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEATHS (OBITUARIES) DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); REFUGEES (91%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MOUNTAINS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); FAMILY (70%); WEATHER (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); WRITERS (64%); KOREAN WAR (61%); SATELLITE RADIO (51%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; MCCALL, DAVID B; MCCALL, JOAN MILLS; PIERPAOLI, YVETTE RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



432 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Case Has Loss In First Quarter

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: RACINE, Wis., April 19

 BODY:
The Case Corporation, the No. 2 United States maker of farm equipment behind Deere & Company, said today that it had a first-quarter loss, as slumping crop prices forced farmers to curb spending on tractors and machinery.
Case had a loss of $48 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with profit a year earlier of $69 million, or 88 cents. The loss was much narrower than the 85-cent-loss average estimate of analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation, and investors responded by sending its shares up $1.375, to $34.3125. 
 Recessions last year, particularly in Brazil and Asia, left farmers with less money to spend on agricultural equipment. Farmers' revenues were also hurt by bumper harvests for wheat and other crops, pushing commodities prices to their lowest levels in two decades. "The lower year-over-year earnings for the first quarter reflect significant sales declines in high-margin, large agricultural equipment," Case said in a statement. Revenue fell to $1.20 billion from $1.38 billion.
"Unfavorable economic conditions in Brazil" reduced earnings by $15 million, or 16 cents a share, Case said. It said Latin American demand for small tractors is projected to fall 10 percent to 15 percent in 1999. Financing for equipment purchases in emerging markets is expected to remain difficult to obtain, and worldwide sales of agricultural equipment will be down about 8 percent to 10 percent in 1999, Case said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNH (NYSE) (95%); DE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CASE CORP CNH GLOBAL NV (95%); DEERE & CO (91%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY LOSSES (91%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (78%); RECESSION (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); WHEAT FARMING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



433 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Globalution Game

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
A few years ago I was interviewing a dissident Indonesian news editor who was telling me how he managed to get critical things about the corrupt Suharto family into the heavily controlled Indonesian press. He said that when President Suharto's son was being given government subsidies for a wacky idea he had for building an Indonesian car industry, the local press was reluctant to come out openly against this nepotism. What the Indonesian press did instead was wait for the World Trade Organization to bring a case against Suharto's son for unfair trade practices and then splash that on the front pages. The message was, "Gosh, we would never say anything bad about the President's son, but these folks at the W.T.O. sure think he's up to no good."
This Indonesian use of the W.T.O. is not an isolated case. Actually, it is an example of a new political phenomenon you can see in many developing countries today, which I call "globalution." Globalution happens when reformers understand that revolution from below may be too explosive, and revolution from above is never going to happen, so they choose revolution from beyond.
Their strategy is to plug their country into every possible global rules-based organization they can find -- from the World Trade Organization to the PriceWaterhouseCoopers accounting firm to Conservation International -- in hopes of importing rule-of-law systems from beyond. 
 This is how one should look at the issue of whether the U.S. should support China's entry into the W.T.O. -- something that President Clinton balked at when China's Prime Minister, Zhu Rongji, visited last week, but that Mr. Clinton is reconsidering and renegotiating with the Chinese.
That China's joining the W.T.O. -- on American terms -- is so manifestly in our economic interest is not even worth debating. America's markets are largely open. China's joining the W.T.O. will not have much impact on China's exports to the U.S. But it will have a huge impact on American access to China's market, because it will force China to open up to foreigners on a defined schedule with set rules overseen by a multinational organization -- replacing the arbitrary, closed system the Chinese have now. There is this notion out there that letting China into the W.T.O. is somehow a giveaway. Well, it is, sort of. It's a giveaway to the U.S. economy.
But there's more going on here. Zhu Rongji is a closet globalutionary. He knows that this deal would help force more transparency, global standards and outside reviews on what is now a highly secretive system of trade laws in China, in which individual bureaucrats have huge discretion and therefore huge opportunities to rip off both foreigners and Chinese. China's entry into the W.T.O. would also help open the interior of China to foreign investors in the fields of Internet service, telephones, faxes and banking, which in turn would help to raise living standards and to develop parts of China that China itself cannot afford to develop. Right now foreign companies cannot own telecommunications companies in China. If China enters the W.T.O., Sprint, AOL and AT&T will all be able to buy into companies there, and that can only contribute to China's being more wired into the world. Lastly, Chinese entrepreneurs, who today have to do their importing through state trading companies, will now be able to import and export directly, which can only help strengthen the private sector in China.
In other words, Mr. Zhu clearly sees the W.T.O. as a way to force his own economic and political reforms on the bloated, inert and corrupt Chinese system. But we should have no illusions. Opponents of this deal within China will fight an intense rearguard action against it if China signs. Implementation will not be easy.
"My sense is that the biggest opposition in China is coming from elements in China's national defense area who are saying to Zhu, 'You are putting us into a globalized world and we are going to lose control,' " says Michael Oksenberg, a Stanford University China scholar.
China is not going to be remade overnight, by this or any other globalution deal. But China's joining the W.T.O. would be a huge step in the protracted process of opening up the Middle Kingdom and easing its wrenching transition from Communism. It would be a grievous error to miss this opportunity. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (73%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



434 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
STOCK MARKET HITAS INVESTORS FLEE TECHNOLOGY AREA

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
In a stunning reversal, investors piled out of technology stocks and other market darlings yesterday, pummeling the very shares that propelled the broad market averages to records last week.
After rising 271.8 points, or 2.6 percent, during the morning, the Dow Jones industrial average ran out of steam shortly after noon and ended the day down 53.36 points, or a half-percent, at 10,440.53. 
 The Nasdaq market started the day in negative territory and never climbed out as investors fled the computer, Internet and telecommunications stocks they had been favoring. Amazon.com lost 16 percent, Dell Computer declined 7.3 percent, and Microsoft fell 6.5 percent.
The Nasdaq composite index, home to most of the nation's technology companies, fell 138.43 points, or about 5.6 percent, to close at 2,345.61.
That was the composite's second- biggest fall in points but only its seventh in percentage terms. Its largest point decline took place on Aug. 31, at the height of the Russian economic crisis.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded 1.21 billion shares, the second-heaviest trading day in the exchange's history. Nasdaq trading volume was also brisk, at 1.198 billion shares.
Early in the day, investors took refuge in stocks whose fortunes closely track the performance of the economy, but even those shares began to sputter at the close. "This kind of a sharp and dramatic reversal is not just business as usual," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "There's a message here. The message is everything finally began to sell off from sheer exhaustion."
Though oil prices rose in the morning, traders said this alone was not enough to kill the rally in the Dow. The shift away from the glamour stocks of technology, health care, Internet and telecommunications companies began last week and it simply gained momentum. The Standard & Poor's/Barra Growth stock index -- a collection of companies with high growth rates and lofty stock valuations -- has fallen 10 percent in the last five trading sessions.
Some of the biggest losers yesterday were stocks that had previously seemed to levitate. Even after yesterday's collapse, these shares are trading at high prices based on their earnings and are well above their lows. America Online, for example, fell 23 7/8 a share, to 115 7/8. That is down more than 30 percent from its high of April 6, but the shares are now where they were just about a month ago.
Likewise, the Charles Schwab Corporation, a brokerage concern that is a favorite Internet play because of its on-line trading services, closed down 32 percent from its high of one week ago. Still, it is up 81 percent since the start of the year. Reflecting the damage done to Internet stocks, the American Stock Exchange's Internet index is down 18 percent from its high set last Tuesday.
Proving once again that the market's leadership can change on a dime, investors last week began to realize that excessive valuations in stocks posed more risk than they could comfortably accept. Rather than flee stocks entirely, they shifted to shares of some companies that had been left for dead. Previously unglamorous companies such as Allied Signal,, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing and Smurfit-Stone Container registered impressive gains.
"Investors had the idea that it's a new economy and a new stock market and that meant you don't have to worry about the old rules of diversification and quality," said Alan F. Skrainka, chief market strageist at Edward Jones in St. Louis.
No longer.
The move away from growth stocks with high valuations and into companies that are viewed as cheaper began last week. Market strategists pointed to two events that gave investors pause. The first was the European Central Bank's move on April 8 to cut interest rates, a signal that policy makers are committed to keeping the world on a path to economic growth by jumpstarting Europe's economies.
When economic growth around the world is scarce, as it has been recently, investors retreat to stocks they know can produce good earnings in spite of any malaise -- these are shares with hefty and reliable profits, so-called growth stocks. Indeed, these investors are willing to pay premiums for these profits. But when growth is plentiful, a broader group of companies benefits and investors can find improving profits in less expensive stocks.
The second scare for growth-stock investors came last Monday when Compaq Computer warned that its quarterly earnings would be half what analysts had been expecting. This reminded traders that technology, for all its promise, can also disappoint.
Adding to investor concern about growth stocks in general, and technology stocks in particular, was the news on Friday that Robert Stansky, the manager of Fidelity Investments' Magellan fund, had sold large positions in many hot technology stocks that had been among his biggest holdings. Mr. Stansky moved into "value stocks," more mundane shares that were trading at lower premiums to their earnings growth rates.
Traders noted yesterday that there were so few buyers for many falling stocks that sellers could get out only if they accepted prices well below the prevailing market. Some fell sharply even though relatively few shares exchanged hands.
Companies waiting in the wings to offer their shares to the public for the first time were likely losers in yesterday's market decline as well. Three Internet concerns, Net Perceptions Inc., Proxicom Inc. and Launch Media Inc., had planned initial public offerings this week. Until investors become more hospitable to companies like these, such offerings are likely to remain on hold.
Strategists pointed to the effect that hordes of rapid-fire day traders -- many of whom are relative newcomers to stocks and have yet to experience a severe, protracted decline in stock prices -- could have on the market. In recent months, these traders have created momentum and profits as they piled into stocks. If they are now piling out, they may create tidal waves of selling.
"This is a case where a lot of these stocks have some unreasonable gains," said Laszlo Birinyi, who heads his own stock research firm in Greenwich, Conn. "Now people are starting to lock in the gains when they can. As these stocks decline from their highs, the movement feeds on itself."
Longtime traders worry that a flood of calls from brokerage firms will go out to stock investors on Tuesday for more funds to prop up diminished portfolios that they have borrowed against to buy more stocks. Customers must meet these requests, known as margin calls, with fresh money or with cash raised by selling stocks. If shares are sold, the market decline could accelerate.
A spokeswoman for Ameritrade, a large discount brokerage firm, said that it had slightly higher margin calls than normal, adding that it had no discernible problems with trading. She also said that the brokerage firm had previously imposed higher borrowing limits, presumably lessening the number of margin calls that would go out to customers.
Of course, investors could jump back into their former stock darlings if they judge the selling to be overdone. Such a strategy has served them well in the last five years and was especially shrewd when the market rebounded from its correction in October. Microsoft, for example announces its earnings today. Investors may like what they see and bid the stock back up again.
Still, Mr. Wien of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said that the United States stock market remains overvalued and that the broad market averages will experience a correction, defined by traders as a decline of 20 percent. "What you're seeing is a resolution of excessive valuation in the market. I expect the indexes to decline further, but I don't think we're in a bear market."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News)
 Bond prices snapped a four-session slide and posted their best day since April 8 as stocks fell, increasing the appeal of less risky Treasury securities.
The price of the 30-year benchmark bond rose 2 8/32 , to 96 8/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.51 percent from 5.57 percent on Friday. Yields on two-year notes, the most actively traded Treasuries and among those considered the safest, fell 6 basis points, to 4.93 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.931	97.791	High Rate	4.23%	4.37%	Coupon Yield	4.34%	4.54%	Low Rate	4.16%	4.26%	Median Rate	4.21%	4.36%	Total applied for	$28,996,212	$29,265,113	Accepted	$11,306,177	$11,160,593	Noncompetitive	$1,186,770	$959,891	
Both issues are dated April 22, 1999. The three-month bills mature on July 22, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 21, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C11)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C11)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (84%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); AOL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ONLINE TRADING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



435 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1938 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Takes Early Party Prize: He Goes One-on-One With Gore

SERIES: THE CONTENDERS: Running Toward 2000

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
Former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey likes to tell audiences that in 1988 he looked at himself in the mirror and said, "You're not ready." He decided not to run for President.
Four years later, he says, "there was something inside me that said, 'No, don't do this.' " 
 By last fall, he recalls, he looked in the mirror again and told himself: "I'm at the top of my game. I'm going to run for President of the United States."
Only months ago, many Democrats questioned Mr. Bradley's timing. They argued that he passed up his best chance in 1992, and that trying to triumph over an incumbent Vice President was a quixotic, even foolhardy, exercise.
But now, largely because of circumstances that Mr. Bradley had nothing to do with, few political professionals dismiss his prospects outright, even as they concede that Vice President Al Gore remains the heavy favorite for the nomination. That is because Mr. Bradley has already captured the prize for which nearly a dozen contenders on the Republican side are arduously competing: to emerge as the alternative should the leading candidate falter.
The parade of other Democrats who had planned to take on Mr. Gore has evaporated, leaving a simple dynamic. If Mr. Gore does not get the nomination, Mr. Bradley does. Never before in modern American politics, in a contest for an open White House, has the competition for a nomination been distilled to two people so early.
"It's Al Gore and I, one-on-one, for 11 months," said Mr. Bradley, who is as much known as a basketball star at Princeton University and for the New York Knicks as for his 18 years in the Senate.
As the only apparent alternative to Mr. Gore, Mr. Bradley is in a much more potent position than he would have been had other Democrats, including Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, not bailed out. He will automatically draw all of the anti-Gore and, in some cases, anti-Clinton, vote.
And Mr. Bradley will command far more attention from the press, and from voters. On Tuesday, for instance, he plans to highlight his long interest in race relations with a speech in New York that will in part address the case of Amadou Diallo, the unarmed West African immigrant who was shot to death by four white police officers.
It is the latest effort by Mr. Bradley to promote so-called "big ideas" to contrast with bite-sized initiatives advanced by Mr. Gore, like combating local traffic congestion.
Senator Bob Kerrey, a Nebraska Democrat who decided not to challenge Mr. Gore, said Mr. Bradley had the potential to win the nomination.
"Any time there's only two people in the race there's a possibility," Mr. Kerrey said. "Bradley has two things people like: He was a good basketball player and he's smart. If he adds a third one, that he's a leader, he'll be tough."
It is an enviable political perch: as the early favorite, Mr. Gore faces pressure not only to prevail in the early contests but also to win overwhelmingly. Even if Mr. Bradley tallies a respectable percentage of the vote, but ultimately loses, he could still win plaudits as a dragon slayer who came close to toppling an incumbent Vice President.
Still, Mr. Bradley has yet to prove that he is the best candidate to make the most of the one-on-one dynamic. The reality is that Mr. Gore's weaknesses are not necessarily Mr. Bradley's strengths. Both are known as more cerebral, even shy, than back-slapping politicians. Both are often less-than-compelling orators. And it is difficult to decipher any momentous issue differences between the two, beyond that Mr. Bradley opposed the Administration's welfare reform measure. He feared that it would force mothers to abandon their children for jobs.
Mr. Bradley's reputation as somewhat plodding is sometimes evident in his campaign speeches. In a talk to contributors in Palm Beach, Fla., recently, he hardly sounded convincing when he said: "Now, the question is, 'Can you win?' And the answer is, 'Absolutely.' "
Yet Mr. Bradley came alive at a Democratic Party convention in Manchester, N.H., this month when he delighted the audience, and underscored his appeal as a celebrity, with tales from his basketball days. He also puts forth a personal side. Everywhere he goes, he says he is thankful that he did not run in 1992 because his wife, Ernestine, had breast cancer diagnosed that year and has since recovered.
Though at 6-foot-5 Mr. Bradley looks a bit awkward loping about, mingling with voters, his admirers at those events often walk away from him with the same response: He is more charming than they expected, and would offer a clean break from the scandal of the Clinton years.
In an interview, Mr. Bradley said he doubted that those who questioned his campaigning skills "have ever been out with me."
"I've been on the road for 30 years," he said, "and all those years I've either been performing in short pants, campaigning for people or earning money on the road. Now I'm out campaigning for the Presidency, and it's the ultimate exhilaration."
Insisting that the contest was serious business for him, Mr. Bradley said, "I don't get into it unless I can see my way through to 270, which are the electoral votes needed to be President."
Mr. Bradley's most pointed arguments for why voters should turn to him are that he has had a more varied life experience than Mr. Gore, who was the son of a Senator, and that he has had more ambitious ideas. "I had a life before I got into politics," he tells audiences.
His supporters also emphasize that Mr. Bradley has a long established reputation as championing campaign reform, and that his ethics have never been questioned. That, they say, would make a pointed contrast to the scandals of the Clinton years and the questions surrounding Mr. Gore's raising money for the 1996 campaign.
Even so, Mr. Bradley, who retired from the Senate in 1996, has resisted requests to put forward many specifics about what he would do as President. He has been reluctant, for example, to spell out how the Administration should be handling the most pressing matter of the day: the crisis in Kosovo.
Mr. Gore's advisers, already devising arguments to undermine their competitor, say that it is disingenuous for Mr. Bradley, who is 55, to cast himself as a Washington outsider because he was a Senator a decade longer than the Vice President.
But Gore advisers were clearly unnerved that Mr. Bradley collected $4.3 million in the first three months of the year, an impressive sum even though it did not approach the $8.9 million amassed by Mr. Gore in that period. The fact that Mr. Gore has an opponent has also prompted him to display his political might by taking steps like staging a formal endorsement with Mr. Gephardt.
Mr. Bradley has nowhere near the endorsements or the vast staff of the Gore organization. Not one member of Congress, not even from New Jersey, has publicly signed on to his campaign.
Yet Mr. Bradley has assembled a skilled staff, including many longtime advisers, although they still seem to be struggling with the unexpectedly intense and early demands placed upon the second candidate in a two-person matchup.
Insisting that he was well aware of, but unfazed by, Mr. Gore's institutional advantages, Mr. Bradley offers a sweeping, yet rather vague, explanation for how he can prevail: "Ultimately, the people decide these elections and they decide them on the basis of who's speaking to their lives and who do they feel is speaking most clearly about the future of the country."
Mr. Bradley's unexpected position as an underdog to be reckoned with is in part an outgrowth of Mr. Gore's miscalculations. Though the Vice President shrewdly scared off potential rivals who were intimidated by his seeming invincibility, he did not take Mr. Bradley's intentions as seriously as he did the others.
Mr. Bradley's image is also helped by early polls showing that Mr. Gore's support is quite shallow. Those surveys have found that Mr. Bradley has gained significant ground in polls in recent weeks, though he remains far behind Mr. Gore.
The Bradley strategy is founded on the premise that voters in the two most pivotal early contests, the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary, sometimes pride themselves on being contrary and do not always reward the expected winner. Mr. Bradley hopes he will emerge in one or both of those early contests. He is also wooing independent voters and even Republicans, with some success, judging by the turnout at some of his events.
Bernie Schnitzer, a New Jersey resident who calls himself a snowbird who spends winters in Florida, said at a Bradley event in Palm Beach that he opposed Mr. Gore because "he's a little too much in the Clinton image." But, Mr. Schnitzer said, he is worried that beyond the Mid-Atlantic States, Mr. Bradley may strike voters as "too Eastern, too liberal, too intellectual."
Mr. Gore's advisers dismiss Mr. Bradley as the Gary Hart of 2000. In the 1984 Democratic primaries, Mr. Hart, then a Colorado Senator, emerged as the alternative to former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, and, like Mr. Bradley, portrayed himself as the thoughtful candidate with big ideas.
Mr. Hart jolted the Democratic Party by winning the New Hampshire primary. Mr. Mondale then recovered with a heavy advertising and organizational campaign, and by posing this question about Mr. Hart's vaunted ideas: "Where's the beef?"
But Mr. Bradley's advisers argue that because of the newly compressed primary schedule in 2000, a victory in Iowa or New Hampshire would make him unstoppable as the race turns quickly to big states like California and New York.
"If Gore maintains his standing, Bradley probably can't do anything," said John Haskell, a professor of political science at Drake University in Des Moines. "But if the economy went bad, or if you get lucky in some primary -- Gore makes a stupid mistake -- it can really snowball because of the front-loaded primaries."
Though Mr. Gore has far more extensive organizations, Mr. Bradley has the advantage of being able to campaign full time, and without being captive to Air Force Two and other trappings, which can be important in early states where one-on-one contact with voters is crucial.
"The difficulty Gore faces now in Iowa and New Hampshire is that these are both states where he has never really campaigned on his own behalf before, and there's an inherent need in those constituencies to see him up closer in a more retail way," said William Carrick, a veteran Democratic strategist. "Obviously, that's easier for Bradley to do than for Gore."
The hard part, Mr. Carrick noted, is advancing from No. 1 alternative to the nominee.
"We have a history of the process producing significant and serious challenges to the established front-runner," he said. "But it's a 50-50 thing whether they win or not."
More than a year ago, over lunch in Palo Alto, Calif., where Mr. Bradley was a fellow at Stanford University, he recalled what he did not miss about his old job: "Who needed to be stroked? Who needed to be called? Who needed to be reasoned with? Who in the press were our allies? Who were our enemies? How do we convince four or five people on the other side you need to have to make something really go. It's just a different time."
Asked in that interview whether he had the stomach or endurance to dive back into the most competitive political arena of all, he shrugged and said, "Who knows? Who knows?"
This is the first in a series of profiles of major Presidential candidates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In New Hampshire, which holds a pivotal early primary, former Senator Bill Bradley visited Dartmouth College this month. (Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); BASKETBALL (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); RACE & RACISM (60%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; BERKE, RICHARD L AL GORE (90%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



436 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Despite Intense Criticism, US Airways Increases Fares in New York

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, April 18

 BODY:
The only airline with jet service within New York State quietly raised ticket prices over the weekend, pushing fares as much as 67 percent higher than a year ago. The airline, US Airways, is already under intense criticism from corporate and political leaders for charging high fares within the state.
At the same time, the airline is cutting one daily flight and ending all jet service between La Guardia Airport and Syracuse, instead using smaller turboprop planes starting May 4, Richard Weintraub, an airline spokesman, confirmed. 
 US Airways increased last-minute business fares between New York City and Albany to $450 for a round trip, $60, or 15.4 percent, higher than the price a year ago. That raises the cost to $1.65 per mile. US Airways reports that it breaks even when its revenue is about 12 cents per mile for each seat on its planes.
US Airways' round-trip business fares from New York City are now $458 to Buffalo, $416 to Rochester and $436 to Syracuse.
The biggest percentage increases were on the cheapest advance-purchase tickets, which are nonrefundable and require a Saturday night stay. The round-trip fare between La Guardia Airport and Rochester, for example, was raised on Friday to $224 from May through August. The same ticket cost $134 for the comparable season a year ago, an increase of 67 percent. That fare rise was cut back slightly Saturday to $204, a 52 percent increase.
Even before the latest fare increases, Rochester had the nation's fourth-highest fares, United States Department of Transportation data show, while Buffalo and Syracuse had among the 20 most expensive.
Lawrence M. Nagin, general counsel for US Airways, said the increases were part of an industry-wide rise in fares last week. "No one market was targeted," he said, but he declined to discuss fares for specific cities. Over all, the airline industry has raised business fares about 3 percent this year and leisure fares 7 percent.
The fare increases were denounced by political figures and business leaders. United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said US Airways "is pushing the envelope when it comes to abusing their monopoly status" and that its fares "are throttling the economy upstate."
Anthony M. Masiello, the Mayor of Buffalo, said, "punitively high air fares are causing serious economic problems for upstate New York, and its decline will seriously affect the whole state, and make us less competitive." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: US AIRWAYS U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; SYRACUSE (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC) TICKET SALES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



437 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 5; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Reading and Commerce

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You ask "When No One Read, Who Started to Write?" (April 6). 
 My speculation is that someone needed to keep a unambiguous record, given the fallibility of human memory. Perhaps a merchant or a ruler who wanted a written record for himself. He had to develop the symbols and once that was done, he could convey the ability to read them to an employee. Next step: a contract or bill of sale, which now required an outsider to learn to read. The precursor to the spread of reading must have been trade and the evolution of the merchant. Still, it seems surprising how recently writing and reading began.
 
JOHN T. BENNETT
Alexandria, Va.
 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); VIRGINIA, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



438 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Rutgers Named in Suit Over Alumni Ad Dispute

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey sued Rutgers University yesterday in an effort to force the alumni magazine to publish an advertisement by a group opposed to what it considers the university's emphasis on big-time athletics.
An alumni group known as Rutgers 1000 sought to publish the advertisement in May, but the magazine, Rutgers Alumni, rejected the ad, said David Rocah, a staff lawyer for the civil rights organization. 
 The advertisement quoted the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman, a member of the alumni group, as saying, "Universities exist to transmit knowledge and understanding of ideas and values to students, not to provide entertainment for spectators or employment for athletes."
The suit, filed in State Superior Court in New Brunswick, charges that the magazine denied the alumni group its right to free speech under the New Jersey and United States Constitutions.
Unlike private newspapers and other media, which have the right to publish what they see fit, Mr. Rocah said, a magazine published by a public institution is an extension of government, and cannot censor ideas contained in its advertising.
The university released a statement saying that based on a preliminary review of the lawsuit, "the constitutional arguments raised by the A.C.L.U. are without merit."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI AD (76%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (93%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (93%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COLLEGE ATHLETICS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ALUMNI (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); LAWYERS (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); 

PERSON: MILTON FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



439 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani to Propose Some Height Limits On City Skyscrapers

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Moving to overhaul New York City's zoning laws for the first time in 40 years, the Giuliani administration today will propose the city's first broad limits on the height of skyscrapers. The rules would curtail a longstanding practice that permits developers to build higher buildings in exchange for creating plazas or other public amenities at ground level.
The changes are among several in the planned zoning revisions. Some changes would open manufacturing areas to more medical and social service complexes. Others would greatly increase the number of parking spaces allowed in new residential buildings and impose more restrictions on the large billboard-type signs that are common in the city. 
 But perhaps the most significant changes involve building size, with the new proposals aimed at setting maximum heights for buildings in most parts of a city that is synonymous with its skyscrapers. City officials say the height limits have yet to be determined, but added that the permissible height of new buildings would probably be similar to that of the tallest existing structure in any particular neighborhood.
The most congested parts of midtown and downtown would be excluded from the new height rules, Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, said in an interview. The idea, Mr. Rose explained, is not to protect those two most densely developed parts of Manhattan from more dense development, but to prevent other areas of the city from being overdeveloped.
The proposed restrictions are intended to address the challenges posed by a strong economy and a resulting building boom that has tested limits on the height and scale of new construction.
For instance, Donald J. Trump is proceeding with plans for a 90-story apartment building on a residential East Side block, a project he has been able to push by obtaining development rights from several nearby properties.
The Trump plan would have been blocked if the proposed zoning changes had been in effect a year ago when it was awaiting city approval, Mr. Rose said. He would not give other examples of buildings, either existing or proposed, that would be disqualified.
Calling the existing rules that allowed for such projects cumbersome and obsolete, city officials say developers should no longer be allowed to exploit such development rights -- and use outdated city incentives -- to build ever-higher towers.
At the same time, they said, the city should find ways to accommodate projects that meet the needs of its growing economy.
"We have a city that has been built to its borders, but is still growing and changing as rapidly as any other," said Mr. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, who is scheduled to describe the proposed zoning changes to an invited group of planners, community advocates and elected officials in a City Hall address today. He said the height limits would vary according to the existing scale of city neighborhoods.
Referring to the city's complex 900-page zoning law that was first written in 1916 and last amended in 1961, Mr. Rose said he feared what he called "a Pandora's box" of conflicting demands from developers, environmentalists and others if the entire zoning statute were opened for revision. The solution, he said, was to institute a limited number of "dramatic modifications."
The proposed changes face a battery of tests, including public hearings, environmental review and a City Council vote. The administration hopes to have the rules in place by the time Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani leaves office; the last time such major changes were proposed, in the 1950's, the revisions were not enacted for nearly a decade.
Those rules have helped shape the city landscape by encouraging the creation of small plazas that surround huge structures, or allowing for skyscrapers that tower over surrounding blocks of low-rise buildings.
In the case of Mr. Trump's planned East Side tower, the developer bought development rights, or "air rights," over several other buildings on the block of his building site, between 47th Street and 48th Street, and incorporated setbacks and public plazas into the design. That allowed him to receive city approval to erect a tower far taller than anything close by; by contrast, the nearby United Nations is 39 stories, slightly more than half as high.
"For 40 years, we have been guided by the Tower in the Park concept of zoning," said Mr. Rose, invoking a term coined in praise of tall, narrow buildings that allowed light and air on the street, and often on public plazas built for the exclusive use of their residents above street level.
Since the 1960's, planners have condemned such building design as a form of architectural division between urban residents and the traditional vibrancy of their streets. And for developers and city officials, it has created a byzantine regulatory framework.
"The zoning law has become crowded with incentives, but the form it creates is inconsistent with what is good for the city," Mr. Rose said. Although the use of such incentives as air rights, which developers have used for scores of buildings in Manhattan, and plaza bonuses would not be eliminated, he said, they would no longer enable developers to build beyond city-mandated height limits.
The proposals provoked a mixture of enthusiasm and skepticism among civic groups and builders. Developers, while warning of determined resistance to the proposed height limits if they undercut potential profits, said they were heartened by the separate proposal outlined by Mr. Rose that would liberalize the city's restrictions on new parking spaces.
That zoning change would eliminate the current limit of one parking space for every five apartments in large new residential developments. Mr. Rose said that that rule had created a severe shortage of parking and that the zoning proposal would probably double the allowable number of spaces in new buildings.
Absolute height restrictions are not common in big cities, said Bill Morrish, director of the design center for American Urban Landscape, a research organization at the University of Minnesota. Most large cities use zoning restrictions that are similar to the ones New York is seeking to replace.
Absolute restriction are more common in smaller cities, like Santa Monica, Calif., and in resort areas.
Should the New York rules pass, they could be the Giuliani administration's most enduring imprint on the physical shape of the city. Mr. Rose suggested that the announcement of the proposal was timed to allow for a thorough review of them before the Mayor leaves office.
"I think that is one of the most brilliant things I've heard proposed in city zoning," said Mr. Trump, who described his First Avenue tower as "grandfathered in and totally on schedule" despite lawsuits by community residents.
He said the new height limits proposed by Mr. Rose "would only be a bad thing if they limit creativity of architects and developers."
Mr. Rose said the proposed height limits, while setting varying standards across the city, would not be absolute. In rare instances, he said, builders might win exceptions based on the quality of their architecture.
Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board of New York, which represents builders, said yesterday that industry executives would "argue over how high is too high." But he added that Mr. Rose's proposals could lead to a "much simplified zoning process" that would be embraced by the industry.
At the Municipal Art Society, a group that was instrumental in creating the city's first zoning law in 1916, Philip K. Howard, the group's chairman, said yesterday that Mr. Rose's proposals had "finally attacked the premise of zoning that has for too long been corroding the vitality of the city."
"The 1961 zoning law was like a meteor that happened to strike in the middle of New York City," Mr. Howard said, adding that the proposed height limits would provide a "useful technique for bringing development into a pattern that is consistent with neighborhoods."
While providing only sketchy details, Mr. Rose said the element of the proposed zoning changes that would liberalize rules in industrial areas was intended to relieve pressure on residential areas that are overburdened by medical clinics, drug treatment centers and other public service complexes.
He said the proposed restrictions on signs would make it more difficult to erect large signs on the sides of buildings and were not aimed at those placed on the front of stores and theater marquees.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about proposed zoning regulations for New York City omitted the context for a quotation from Donald J. Trump. In saying, "I think that is one of the most brilliant things I've heard proposed in city zoning," he was referring to one aspect -- an increase in the number of parking spaces allowed in large residential developments -- not to the overall proposal.

GRAPHIC: Diagram/Maps: "KEEPING TRACK: Overhauling City Zoning Laws"
Mayor Rudolph W. Guiliani wants to set new zoning restrictions citywide, including the height of buidings. Another change would include increasing the number of parking spaces in residential building garages (currently one space for every five apartments).
 
The way tall buildings can be legally constructed now and areas that would be excluded form new restrictions:
 
Inset from street:
Built gradually set back from the street, allowing more light to reach street level.
 
Public space:
Depending on the zone, an open public space must be built next to the building.
 
Buy air rights:
Unused air space from surrounding buildings may be bought and added to building height.
 
(Sources: Buildings Dept.; City Planning Dept.)(pg. B6)
 
Maps show areas excluded from new zoning in midtown and lower Manhattan.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ZONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS; ADVERTISING; LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ZONING (91%); CITIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); MAYORS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999



440 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 13; Column 1; Museums 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: They're Building a Lot More Than Their Collections

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Asoaring structure, resembling a bird taking flight, is rising on Lake Michigan's shores, where it is soon to be a wing of the Milwaukee Art Museum. The erstwhile Home for Needy Confederate Women in Richmond was just rechristened as the education center of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. The Old Main Library in San Francisco and an abandoned Nabisco factory in Beacon, N.Y., are about to be converted, respectively, into the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco and a branch of the Dia Center for the Arts.
Then there is a trio of gallery pavilions that will "float" above a reflecting pond as the new Museum of Modern Art of Fort Worth; a sculpture garden dug into the Washington Mall for the National Gallery of Art; an old May Company department store morphing into space for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art; a disused multiplex discount cinema that is now the Scottsdale Museum of Contemporary Art in Arizona, and the Museum of Modern Art's $650 million plan to transform its block of West 53d Street in New York. 
 There is even 130,000 square feet of new floor space at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, created by slicing two-story galleries into separate floors and by taking over air shafts and vacated offices.
Any which way they can, American art museums are expanding. Play the proverbial dart game with a map of the United States and, chances are, you'll land near a city whose museum has expanded, is expanding or plans to expand.
Though no one keeps a master list, a wide but by no means complete survey by The New York Times discovered nearly 60 museums that are enlarging their quarters, to the tune of several billion dollars. That does not include recent projects, like the stunning new branch of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, the sprawling new Getty Center in Los Angeles and the fledgling Georgia O'Keeffe Museum in Santa Fe, N.M., that made their entrances before 1998.
Where growth plans do not yet exist on paper, they often dance in the heads of museum directors and trustees. The Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the St. Louis Art Museum and the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, for example, are writing strategic plans bound to involve additional square footage.
"It's just dreams at this point, but we will have something to say soon," said Malcolm Rogers, the director of the Boston museum. "If you're not changing or expanding, you're standing still."
The broadest, grandest, most ambitious art museum boom in American history depends, of course, on one fact: If ever there was a good time for raising cash, it is now. Thanks to the second-longest economic expansion of this century and a 10,000-point Dow Jones Industrial Average, the United States is rich with, well, the wealthy. The monied classes enjoy being art patrons, with the recognition, gilt by association and confirmation of taste that giving confers.
And donors generally prefer to give money for buildings, rather than operations, a trend that dovetails with museums' primal need for more space -- their version of Manifest Destiny -- to show ever-growing collections. "A museum that considers itself finished is dead," said Philippe de Montebello, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Some museums say they are at the breaking point: They own art that ought to be on display but isn't, and yet donors of new gifts want to see them out in the open. Gail Harrity, the chief operating officer at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, voiced a common complaint: "We've already expanded into every possible inch that we can."
But there may be more going on here than the museum world's perpetual quest for marble and mortar. To some observers, the expansion blitz signals that museums occupy a more imposing position in the community than they have in the past, socially and economically as well as culturally.
"Art museums have shaped their outlook and their activities to be more in sync with society's needs and the aspirations of the community," said Robert P. Bergman, the director of the Cleveland Museum of Art. "More people look to cultural institutions to serve a wider, rather than narrow, band of our citizenry, and museums have vastly diversified their activities and programs."
Mr. Bergman and others cite classrooms, media laboratories, interactive displays, libraries, "event" rooms, auditoriums, performing arts spaces and, of course, shops, coffee bars and restaurants. With so many activities available under one roof, the museum becomes a gathering place, especially if it has added evening hours and live music.
Andrea Rich, the president of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, calls today's museum "the new town square" in some communities, the exceptions being, perhaps, major metropolitan areas.
Art museums have certainly insinuated themselves into local economies by attracting tourists. "Every city has to have an art museum," said Witold Rybczynski, the author of "City Life: Urban Expectations in a New World" (Simon & Schuster) and a professor of urbanism at the University of Pennsylvania. "The feeling is, if you get one, along with a sports team and an aquarium, that will somehow fix you up."
In Philadelphia, for example, the museum has drawn huge numbers of tourists to its retrospectives of Cezanne and Delacroix. "The art museum, once considered the icing on the cake, is suddenly the cake," Mr. Rybczynski said. Indeed, a 1998 study commissioned by the Travel Industry Association of America found that a quarter of adult travelers in the United States had visited a museum the previous year.
J. Mark Schuster, an associate professor of urban studies and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: "Museums are part of urban development strategy. Communities are saying, 'We have to have one to compete.' "
The cultural position of art museums is changing, too, as they have transformed the nature of their collections. "The museum canon has broadened quite a lot," said Neil Harris, a history professor and expert on museums at the University of Chicago, "partly as a function of scholarship, partly in response to audiences."
Thus museums are adding art that reflects their region's ethnic makeup -- Latin American art in Texas, for example. But some go beyond that now, adding, say, Tibetan art as well as contemporary art in more forms, like photography, film, video, multimedia art and so on. (And 20th-century art casts what Mr. Harris called a long shadow, and "takes more space.")
For all these reasons, along with better marketing, increased frequency of blockbuster exhibitions and a more educated public, attendance is up at most museums. In Houston, for example, the Museum of Fine Arts is doubling its space partly to accommodate a visitor tally that jumped more than 50 percent in the last five years to 1.3 million in 1998. The Government reported last year that 68 million adult Americans visited art museums in 1997, resulting in 225 million visits. (Children's visits would increase the total sharply.)
BECAUSE of changes in methods, experts say, these figures cannot be compared with those from previous surveys. So it is hard to say whether a greater proportion of the population is visiting museums, or the population increased, and the same people are visiting museums more often. But Monnie Peters, a consultant in Washington who once headed the Government's arts participation survey, said: "You do have concrete evidence of the increased desire of the American public to go to art museums. They're saying they're going more, and I think you can believe it."
It helps, Mr. Harris said, that people have more money to spend on cultural activities and that the nation's population in cities, where the museums are, is growing. The proliferation of art images on the Internet is also whetting the appetites of many who now want to see the real thing, he said.
The more visitors museums have, the more space they need for amenities like bathrooms, parking areas and restaurants, which enlarge the expansions. Some experts, however, worry that museums are over-building, leaving themselves open to deficits if attendance drops.
Still, museum attendance has been rising for decades. "There is nothing inherently unsustainable" about high attendance, Mr. Harris said. "But it is expensive to sustain," he added. "A large number of people will go to certain exhibitions, but not others. Then there is pressure on museums to mount exhibitions that draw."
None of this seems to be particularly worrisome in the museum world, where the prevailing mood is boundless optimism. Consider the International Glass Museum in Tacoma, Wash., which exists only on paper. The group trying to build this showcase for studio glass has found firm commitments for just half of the $11 million needed.
In February, though, a letter from its headquarters announced that the yet unbuilt museum was expanding. To house "the extensive programs as well as preserve the overall beauty and attractiveness of the museum," trustees decided to boost the plan from 55,000 square feet to 59,300. Their new capital goal is $16.4 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: VIRGINIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS -- Converting the former Home for Needy Confederate Women added 40,000 square feet; the cost, $6.5 million. (Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times); LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM OF ART -- Refurbishing a May Company department store will add 290,000 square feet. Cost to date: $3 million. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, HOUSTON, inset -- To open in 2000, the new building will add 192,447 square feet and cap a $115 million expansion program. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times); MILWAUKEE ART MUSEUM -- When the new building opens in mid-2000, the museum will have grown 125,000 square feet for $50 million. (Milwaukee Art Museum.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (53%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (67%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VIRGINIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS; LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM OF ART; MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (HOUSTON); MILWAUKEE ART MUSEUM FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS; LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM OF ART; MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (HOUSTON); MILWAUKEE ART MUSEUM NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (53%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (67%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; MUSEUMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LAKES (90%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); HISTORY (77%); LIBRARIES (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



441 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Museums 

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: A Region Pins Hopes To the Backs of Fish

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI

 BODY:
WITH a cultural trove containing more than a dozen museums, several amusement parks and professional football and baseball teams, this port city would seem to have more than enough attractions for every visitor.
Indeed, a respectable 4.6 million visitors came to this area last year, spending $3.1 billion on everything from art appreciation -- the Cincinnati Art Museum is the first general art museum to be built west of the Alleghenies -- to a day at one of the nation's leading zoos. 
 Why, then, has the scheduled opening of an aquarium next month in Newport, Ky., less than a half-mile across the Ohio River, made Cincinnati tourism officials positively euphoric?
The answer is more: more attractions to entice more people into more frequent and longer stays, which government and business leaders hope will generate more money and more jobs.
Aquariums have become the bright stars in the museum world, as a number of cities -- Baltimore, Chattanooga, Tenn., and Corpus Christi, Tex., among them -- have discovered their value as cornerstones for economic development in formerly blighted urban areas. Cincinnati, already committed to helping build two new sports stadiums and other costly civic projects, drew the line at helping to finance an aquarium; Newport was willing. But even Cincinnati has recognized the benefits that an aquarium -- albeit one in the next state -- can provide.
"All of us have something to gain from it," said Gayle Harden-Renfro, a spokeswoman for the Greater Cincinnati Convention and Visitors Bureau. "Visitors don't look at city or state boundaries; to them it's the same area. So we are embracing the fact that these are invisible boundaries, and we are training ourselves not to say, 'This side of the river, that side of the river.' "
Because raising the entertainment quotient can increase profits, Cincinnati is sprucing up its waterfront with new football and baseball stadiums, and it is planning a multimillion-dollar National Underground Railroad Freedom Museum. The museum will focus on stories of courage and cooperation among fugitive slaves and those who helped them reach free states or Canada via a loosely organized system that existed before the Civil War.
Boosting tourism is also why Las Vegas, Nev., for example, is offering Nascar and shopping malls as well as gambling, and why Orlando, Fla., with its theme parks, is also touting its many (if little-known) cultural treasures, including its art museums, symphony orchestra and ballet. As the Greater Cincinnati Convention and Visitors Bureau noted in its 1998 annual report: "Increasing total room nights is a major annual goal, because a visitor or convention delegate who stays one or more nights in a hotel room (versus visiting for the day and then leaving) always generates more revenues for the host city."
The benefits to the region as a whole were spelled out in a 1996 economic impact study of the aquarium by the University of Cincinnati, which forecast that "83 percent of hotel expenditures would occur in Ohio," as would the lion's share of expenditures on food, drink and retail sales. That explains why photographs of the Newport Aquarium appear in tourist brochures and vacation packages offered by the Cincinnati visitors bureau. It also suggests why tourist brochures for the three Kentucky counties directly across from Cincinnati (Campbell, Kenton and Boone) proclaim "Northern Kentucky, the Southern Side of Cincinnati."
"People come here from Louisville, Columbus and Indianapolis to see a ball game or to go to amusement parks," said Barbara Dozier, the vice president of sales and marketing for the Northern Kentucky Convention and Visitors Bureau. "Our focus groups showed that few had ever been to an aquarium, because the closest are in Chattanooga and Chicago. So we hope to generate people who haven't been here before, and to get people who do visit the aquarium to stay over that second night."
Danny Fore, the executive director of the Tri-County Economic Development Corporation in nearby Covington, added: "The mutual cooperation makes sense, because we are joined at the hip with Cincinnati." The attachment extends to the Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport, which is a dozen miles from Cincinnati in Boone County, Kentucky.
But it is Newport that is looking to the aquarium to work a kind of magic. For all of the city's charm, including its historic district and riverfront restaurants with a front-row view of Cincinnati's bright lights and sleek high-rises, the 10-acre aquarium site was, until recently, a seedy "adult entertainment" district of strip clubs and pornography shops that earned Newport the sobriquet "sin city."
"Newport," said Patricia Wingo, the city's economic development director, "was Las Vegas before there was a Las Vegas."
Five local business executives originally proposed building the aquarium in Cincinnati, but the city was already wrestling with where to build its stadiums, and the Cincinnati Zoo decided it did not want to finance or operate an aquarium. Covington, Ky., the next most likely contender, wanted the aquarium, but hesitated because of the high cost of preparing a riverfront site.
Newport, however, offered to spend $10 million to acquire and prepare a suitable location. It didn't hurt that the aquarium's owners would benefit from a Kentucky law that provides tax incentives for tourist attractions expected to draw at least 25 percent of their visitors from out of state.
A recent tour of the two-level aquarium, while the sharks, moray eels, alligators and piranhas were completing quarantine in a nearby annex, demonstrated why local leaders believe that this attraction can generate a sea change in the regional tourism industry.
The aquarium itself is average in size (100,000 square feet with 1 million gallons of water). But its 380,000-gallon, open-air shark exhibit is one of the nation's biggest. Its 11,000 salt- and fresh-water animals comprise 600 species and include 50 sharks and 16 king penguins, whose purchase from an aquarium in Shirahama, Japan, accounted for about half of the aquarium's $600,000 total budget for animals.
EACH of the aquarium's five tunnels, totaling 200 feet, consists of a continuous piece of two-and-one-half-inch acrylic, thin enough for alligators and sharks to eyeball visitors up close from above or below, but thick enough to thwart the most determined predator.
Rising alongside the aquarium is a complex of restaurants, stores, an IMAX theater and a 21-screen megaplex, the biggest theater complex in the Greater Cincinnati area. A local developer who had a 73,000-pound bell cast in France (and claims it is the world's biggest) said he plans to ship it to Newport this summer to be mounted on a 1,000-foot-high "millennium monument." The notion is that the bell will be used to ring in 2000.
With financing for the multimillion-dollar tower still in question, not many revelers are likely to beat a path to Newport to witness the turn of the century. But as with the aquarium, city officials have high hopes.
"For years we provided entertainment for lots of people, but it was the wrong kind," said Ms. Wingo, Newport's economic director. "Now with the aquarium and our other attractions, we're going to provide entertainment you can talk about in public."
 
A Big Boom Underwater
THEY'RE not just fish tanks anymore. Aquariums have come a long way in recent years, in number, attendance and mission.
Thirty-one aquariums are members of the American Zoo and Aquarium Association, in Bethesda, Md., up from 17 in 1989, and aquarium attendance during the last decade has soared to 36.6 million from 23 million. There are also aquariums in Miami, Minneapolis, San Francisco and at least seven other cities that are not affiliated with the association. Aquariums are under construction or in the planning stages in about a dozen more cities, including Atlanta and Charleston, S.C.
What has sparked the recent interest is the ability of aquariums to attract visitor dollars and their importance in helping to regenerate rundown or abandoned urban areas.
Moreover, aquariums, like zoos, have benefited not only from visitor curiosity about sea creatures, but also from the growing interest in wildlife conservation and the environment. No longer just collections of fish, mammals or other marine life in tanks, modern aquariums often offer the aquatic equivalent of petting zoos, as well as interactive musical entertainment, seminars for adults, story times for children, movies and slide shows, intern programs and posted feeding times.
California has the largest number of aquariums belonging to the association (six), while Living Seas at Disney's Epcot Center in Orlando, Fla., draws the most people -- six million in 1997. The Monterey Bay Aquarium in Monterey, Calif., offers the biggest population of marine life outside the ocean -- more than 305,500 animals and plants at last count, representing 563 species of fish, mammals, birds, invertebrates, reptiles and plants. It also claims to have the world's biggest window: 54 feet wide, 15 feet tall, 13 inches thick and weighing 78,000 pounds.
The $118 million Aquarium of the Pacific in Long Beach, Calif., which opened last year, is the most expensive built in the United States, and the newest. The oldest is the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, Brooklyn. Built in 1896, it has the biggest aquarium-based marine research laboratory in the nation.
 EDWIN MCDOWELL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Divers, seen through an acrylic tunnel, clean a tank at the Newport (Ky.) Aquarium. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWPORT AQUARIUM (KENTUCKY) CINCINNATI ART MUSEUM (94%); VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWPORT AQUARIUM (KENTUCKY) VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI (OHIO); NEWPORT (KY); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AQUARIUMS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MUSEUMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); TOURISM (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



442 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: FOOD STUFF

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant 

 BODY:

Now, Organic Produce With the Morning Paper
For some time Manhattanites have been able to get weekly deliveries of milk, juice, soft drinks, bottled water and even bagels and bread along with their morning paper. Now, organic fruits and vegetables are on the grocery list. Mitchell's News has started distributing produce from Eco-Organics in Jersey City each Thursday. Choices range from a generous array of vegetables suitable for salads for $28 to around 35 pounds of produce for $55, including delivery. 
 The economy assortment, for $35, contained excellent broccoli, carrots, garlic, celery, tiny tomatoes, mesclun and good red romaine, citrus, apples and a pineapple. The very fresh spinach included was mature, more suited for braising than a salad, and the string beans were not as young as they could have been, but both were acceptable.
Orders for delivery by Mitchell's should be placed directly with Eco-Organics, either at (888) 326-6742 or, better still, at its Web site (www.ecoorganics.com), which provides a complete listing of the week's offerings. On the Internet you can add or subtract from the standard assortments, customizing your needs from week to week.
Mitchell's delivers only to buildings with 24-hour attendants. Eco-Organics will deliver to any building by United Parcel Service for a dollar or so more than Mitchell's service.
 
A Sale on (Fine) Chocolates
Excellent Michel Cluizel Chocolates, made in France, have just been introduced at Sutton Place Gourmet and Hay Day stores on Long Island and in Westchester and Connecticut, as well as in the Washington area. Fillings encased in silken bittersweet and milk chocolate include praline with a bit of crunch, fragrant pistachio cream, and dense coffee and citrus-scented ganaches. As high-end chocolates go, these are well priced. Until the end of May, they will be $24.99 a pound, instead of $29.99, when selected from 28 varieties on display. Prepacked gift boxes cost more: $39.99 for a pound, $24.99 for a half pound.
The stores will soon be selling Michel Cluizel ice cream, too.
 
Dean Waters
Alice Waters, who throughout her restaurant career has mostly stayed close to her home base in Berkeley, Calif., is adding New York to her itinerary. She has been appointed a visiting dean at the French Culinary Institute, 462 Broadway (Grand Street). It is a departure for a school whose philosophy is extremely French, but a way of increasing the visibility of women on the male-dominated faculty, said Sue Huffman, the director of marketing. Starting next month, Ms. Waters will give lectures to each new class in the six-month program.
 
Ginger by the Drop
Ginger root now seems to be indispensable to serious cooks, but it's difficult to keep it fresh and moist. Grating it or producing juice, if that's what a recipe requires, is tedious. Royal Pacific's new bottled ginger juice is a handy alternative, to use by the droplet or the spoonful, to add a bit of gingery heat to tea, fruit salads, dressings, sauces and cocktails. Minced fresh ginger and fresh ginger juice are a trifle spicier, so you might want to use a little more of the bottled kind, which has citric acid and an emulsifier. Once opened, it should be kept in the refrigerator.
Royal Pacific Ginger Juice is about $4 for five ounces at Aphrodisia, 264 Bleecker Street (Cornelia Street); Garden of Eden, 162 West 23d Street, and Zabar's, 80th Street and Broadway. Soon, it will be sold at Food Emporium and Kings Super Markets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Merle Nacht)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (54%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (54%); NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (54%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ECO-ORGANICS (CO); ROYAL PACIFIC FOODS; HAY DAY MARKETS; SUTTON PLACE GOURMET (NYC STORE); FRENCH CULINARY INSTITUTE (NYC); MITCHELL'S NEWS UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (54%); BALDUCCI'S (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECO-ORGANICS (CO); ROYAL PACIFIC FOODS; HAY DAY MARKETS; SUTTON PLACE GOURMET (NYC STORE); FRENCH CULINARY INSTITUTE (NYC); MITCHELL'S NEWS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; ORGANIC FOOD; CHOCOLATE; GINGER (SPICE) ORGANIC FOODS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (84%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINK MFG (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (66%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); MEN (60%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE; WATERS, ALICE GINGER JUICE (71%); MICHEL CLUIZEL CHOCOLATES (63%); ALICE WATERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



443 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
Law of Gravity Applies to Bordeaux Prices

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
FOR the first time in four years, the prices of Bordeaux wines are beginning to fall, in some instances significantly below last year's levels. Among some of the better-known chateaus, Margaux is down 14 percent, Cos d'Estournel 25 percent, Ducru-Beaucaillou 16 percent and Gloria 11 percent.
But don't rush to your local wine store looking for a bargain just yet. The price drop refers to the 1998 vintage, which is maturing in chateau cellars and whose wines will not be sold in the United States until 2000 or 2001. The 1997 Bordeaux, whose prices set off a debate among those in the wine trade, will begin to arrive this year. More about them later. 
 The price drop was welcomed by the Bordeaux Wine Council, a trade group, which announced it officially in Paris last week. As always, the five most famous chateaus -- Haut-Brion, Lafite-Rothschild, Latour, Margaux and Mouton-Rothschild -- were the first to announce their prices, which are called opening prices. As the wine passes through the hands of brokers, shippers, importers, distributors and retailers, that opening price can increase by 50 to 100 percent.
Bordeaux is France's biggest wine exporting region, so what goes on there is closely watched by wine experts around the world. They had been predicting a drop in French wine prices because of the Asian financial crisis, declining Japanese demand and growing competition from wines elsewhere in the world.
To other wine players, greed on the part of Bordeaux producers also had a part. They point out that the 1997 vintage, a relatively mediocre one, was offered for sale at prices well above the 1996, a very good vintage, as producers tried to make the most of a hot market.
Preliminary judgments of the 1998 vintage put it considerably above the 1997 in quality, which means that the 1998's are being offered at lower prices than the less-good 1997's.
But where did the astoundingly high prices for Bordeaux wines of the last few years come from anyway? After a succession of indifferent years -- 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994 -- worldwide demand for a good wine was great. The 1995 vintage was excellent, and anticipating the demand for it, Bordeaux producers set their opening price 35 percent over 1994. Even so, demand was so strong that prices were pushed up 50 percent more. Growers were encouraged to offer the 1996 vintage at even higher prices -- in some cases, 55 or 60 percent higher than what they had asked for the 1995's.
"Up to this point, there was some logic to all this," said Anthony Barton, owner of Chateau Leoville-Barton in St.-Julien, in Bordeaux wine country. That is, good wines sold in a buoyant market in a generally expanding world economy. "When things ceased to make sense was when the 1997 vintage was put on the market," he added. Although that year produced some excellent wines, few would say they were equal to, let alone better than, 1995 or 1996. Yet prices went up again.
Mr. Barton said it was "a grave error" for producers to think that there was a true demand for the 1997 vintage at this high price. "Now, the 1998 campaign is under way, and it has caused producers quite a problem," he said.
Eric Dulong, vice president of the Bordeaux Wine Council, defended the 1997 vintage as "overly criticized," but promised "a significant effort" to lower prices for the vintage, much of which remains unsold.
In New York, Abdallah Simon, chairman of the Seagram Chateau and Estate Wines Company, an important Bordeaux importer, said he was not worried about selling the 1997's but criticized the Bordelais for pushing the 1997 prices so high.
In Bordeaux, Paul Pontallier, manager of Chateau Margaux, said of 1997: "We did what we had to do -- perhaps we went a bit too high."
He added: "Pricing is out of our hands. The market makes the prices. Our job is to make the very best wine we can."
Will a measure of logic return to a market driven by ego and tradition, as well as economic realities? Mr. Barton, whose family has made wine in Bordeaux since 1822, is cautiously optimistic. "With luck and a small measure of good judgment," he said, "the 1998 vintage will be sold at about the right price." He added, "I look forward to returning to the old-fashioned formula of increasing prices in good years and decreasing them in lesser years."
 
Tastings
A Robust Red
 
Gallo Zinfandel, Alexander Valley, Barrelli Creek Vineyard, Sonoma County, Calif., 1995. About $14.
 
ANOTHER of Gallo's single-vineyard Sonoma County wines, this is a blend of 82 percent zinfandel and 18 percent petite sirah, both from Barrelli Creek vines. The two grape varieties were fermented separately, blended, then aged for almost 14 months, mostly in American oak barrels. The result is a rich, full-bodied wine with a beautiful bouquet and a surprisingly long finish. It might benefit from a few years' extra aging, but it's perfectly ready to drink now. The alcohol level is high, 14.4 percent, but that's not uncommon in zinfandels these days, and it gives them the robust quality we've come to expect. Not exactly a summer wine, it would be ideal for use with red meats, game and some assertive cheeses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: HOW HIGH? -- Anthony Barton, a Bordeaux maker, seeks logic in pricing. (J. P. Godeau/Top)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (53%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

COMPANY: BORDEAUX WINE COUNCIL (96%); CHATEAU MARGAUX (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDEAUX WINE COUNCIL (96%); CHATEAU MARGAUX (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BORDEAUX (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (53%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); WINE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J ANTHONY BARTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



444 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Museums 

LENGTH: 1936 words

HEADLINE: Culture's Power Houses;
The Museum Becomes An Engine of Urban Redesign

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
I want to hold on to the moment after I checked into my hotel in Bilbao, Spain, dropped off my bags in the room and rushed out to walk around the city's new Guggenheim Museum. By chance, I ran into the museum's architect, Frank Gehry, outside the hotel, and he asked if I wanted to go look at the building with him.
That was not what I'd had in mind. I love to arrive in a new town and just walk around, letting impressions sink in, before heading off to inspect a new building. But this was an occasion to let the unexpected happen: the designer of this museum, a building already celebrated months before it opened, also walking around by himself, checking the impressions his work made from different parts of the city -- streets, angles, distances. 
 Anyway, how do you answer a question like that? Look at the building? What building? Oh, no, I came to Bilbao because somebody recommended the local variety of blood sausage, or because I'm interested in Basque separatism.
Seventy-five years ago, the subject of this article might have been the opening of a shipyard, but it is the late 90's, so I was there for the opening of a museum. Bilbao was once a shipbuilding town, but that industry has dried up locally, leaving the city high and dry. The solution has been to fill the void with culture: a museum, a concert hall, a sports arena and, of course, the architecture in which these enterprises are housed.
This pattern has been repeated in Paris, Barcelona, Helsinki, San Francisco, Cleveland and countless smaller cities, like North Adams, Mass., where the sprawling Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art will open next month in the one-time factory buildings of the Sprague Electrical Company. These cities have ceased to be centers for industry and have become domains of culture. Along with financial management and tourism, culture is now a leading urban industry.
No longer merely the ornament of power, culture is a power in its own right. Of course, museums are not the only engines of this transformation -- theaters, commercial galleries, jazz clubs and other varieties of night life, book fairs, music festivals, loft conversions, architectural walking tours and, not least, computer software firms are also driving the industrialization of culture. But the museum occupies a privileged place in the hierarchical scheme of things. It symbolizes the civilized idea that cultural and material values are not the same.
Frank Gehry led me over to a street a block or two away that runs perpendicular to the Nervion River and leads straight to the museum's entrance. Photographs of the building framed by the view down this street have been widely published, but are misleading, for they emphasize the difference between Mr. Gehry's titanium-clad structure and the masonry vernacular of Bilbao's streets. But when seeing the museum firsthand, you are struck by how uncommonly sympathetic it is to the tough riverside surroundings of this decayed town.
"I see all the mistakes," Mr. Gehry said, and he pointed out what he considered to be one of them, a skylight that pokes through the metal skin of the roof. It didn't look like a mistake to me, but then I wondered, should I be looking for mistakes? Later on, as we rounded the side of the museum, I thought, well, maybe I don't like the convex curves that frame the window of that big rectilinear piece that shoots up in the air. They're so refined.
But who cares? This was magic time, an adventure in goosebumps. My hair would have been standing on end if it hadn't been plastered down with so much mousse. Architecture will never be the same. Cities will never be the same. And it all came out of the brains of two people, Frank Gehry and his patron, Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director. People will like the building, or they won't, they'll come to see it, or they won't. The point is that an idea has been expressed here about the function of the museum in the contemporary city, and the idea, to give it a name, is Subjective Truth.
No one can prove that something is or is not good architecture. There are no scientific tests to determine the quality of art, no rules for declaring such-and-such work to be a masterpiece. These are matters of judgment. But that does not mean that the concept of truth has no relevance to these questions; it is possible to discriminate in a relativistic universe -- that is what museums are about, and cities, and critics, too. The lack of objective standards is what makes culture so dynamic.
Museums, industrial cities and newspapers are fundamentally 19th-century institutions. The present century has been largely one of transition, a bridge that extends from the great industrial cities of the past to the global information network to which the older urban centers must now adjust.
The announcement, earlier this year, that Levi Strauss was shutting down 11 factories in the United States is a good illustration of this transition. It was unsettling to learn that Levi's jeans, a venerable American icon, would henceforth be produced on foreign soil. But the news was not surprising. In the last three decades, manufacturing has been overwhelmingly exported to countries that offer cheap labor.
Still, if the United States would no longer produce Levi's, it would nonetheless continue to produce images of Levi's. In advertising campaigns, movies, television programs, music videos and fashion magazines, Levi's would figure as signs of youthfulness, sexuality, informality, the great American style. The archetypal American uniform had shifted categories, in other words. It had left the field of industrial manufacturing and entered the sphere of culture.
This development has changed more than the physical landscape of the city, or its social demographics. The proliferation of museums partly reflects the uncertainty many people feel about the future of the city. And a museum is, among other things, a school that trains us to live with uncertainty in creative ways.
In the subatomic realm, the distinction between objectivity and subjectivity begins to break down. Depending on the method used to perceive it, light will register as either particles or waves. Some argue that since such phenomena are not experienced outside sophisticated laboratory settings, they have no bearing on ordinary life, that the laws of classical (Newtonian) physics remain valid. The point is, however, that since Heisenberg formulated the Uncertainty Principle, it has no longer been possible to equate science exclusively with objectivity. Science itself has placed limits on that equation.
I think that the modern museum, and the contemporary city as a whole, extend a similar message throughout everyday life: Truth cannot be equated exclusively with objectivity. Museums stand for the idea that some things are culturally more valuable than others; hierarchies do exist.
This idea cannot be proved, nor can esthetic judgments be verified by time or popular referendum. Tastes change, and intelligent people disagree. This complexity is a truth of the urban condition.
FURTHER adventures in the goosebumps trade, three shows whose intelligence still inspires me:
1. "Willem de Kooning in East Hampton," Guggenheim Museum, New York City, 1977. Few people will come out and say that Frank Lloyd Wright's rotunda is the ideal place to display paintings. Also, this period of de Kooning's work -- semi-abstractions suggesting summer days at the beach, with sea, sky, sunlight, gulls, women, waves -- is not considered the artist's best. (One critic said the canvases looked painted in mayonnaise.) But there can be a chemistry between building and painting that makes the entire experience soar.
Wright compared the ramp to an unbroken ocean wave; and sometimes the sound of murmuring visitors, percolating upward through the tall space, creates an aquatic or marine effect, like bubbles effervescing through surf. The show was like a collaboration between two old men splashing around together in the fountain of youth.
2. "Wonderblock," Museum of Contemporary Art, Vienna, 1989. In honor of some anniversary or other having to do with Freud, Vienna staged several shows on psychological themes. Wonderblock, the German term for those self-erasing sketch pads children use, featured 18th- and 19th-century mechanical contraptions designed to diagnose and treat mental disorders. These were exhibited with paintings that plumbed dream states, by artists like Fuseli and Goya.
The labels were in German, and there was no English catalogue, but not knowing precisely what I was looking at made these medical machines seem all the more hilarious: chairs equipped with gears, pullies and elaborate gauges of copper and brass; padded booths with helmets and arm clamps; pneumatic couches. These Rube Goldberg devices were stunningly handsome, and each reverberated with the authority of science. But they looked far more psychotic than any of the maladies they were intended to cure -- vapors, hysterias, unbalanced humors, moral degenerations.
3. "La Ville," the Georges Pompidou Center, Paris, 1992. A blockbuster show of 20th-century urban visions, half of them by painters, the others by architects: paintings, renderings, photographs and, in the final segment, a battery of video monitors showing architects and artists commenting on the city's future.
This epic display, mounted on the museum's top floor, was accompanied by three smaller shows that explored different facets of urban culture. A ground-floor gallery draped in black velvet presented a heartbreaking array of black-and-white photographs of libraries, mosques, office towers and other buildings in Sarajevo that had been reduced to ruins in the outbreak of Balkan hostilities in the early 90's.
In the basement galleries, a retrospective of the work of Ettore Sottsass clearly demonstrated this designer's cosmopolitan esthetic, with objects that synthesized a broad range of Mediterranean, Indian, Japanese, American and other global influences. A fourth gallery honored the work of Walter Benjamin, the German philosopher, literary critic and student of city life. Street signs, stereopticons, photographs of shopping arcades and amusement parks, and other visual artifacts helped to evoke the mind of one of this century's most gifted urban thinkers.
There was a fifth exhibition: the city of Paris, laid out like a panorama as visitors went up or down the Pompidou's glass-enclosed escalator, a city that, after viewing these shows, could never look the same.
LIKE Frank Gehry's design for Bilbao, exhibitions like these collapse the psychological wall between subjective perception and objective reality, allowing the two to momentarily fuse. The effect can be powerfully visceral.
In his book "Understanding the Present: Science and the Soul of Modern Man" (Doubleday), the British science writer Bryan Appleyard attacks the cultural impact of scientific rationalism. "Science works, but is it the truth?" Mr. Appleyard rhetorically asks. Though not explicitly written as such, his book can be read as a manifesto for the 21st-century urban project. With its functionalist architecture, rational planning, synchronized work force and sociological models, the industrial city was governed by scientifically ordered measurements, quantities, statistics. The challenge of the post-industrial city is to realize that subjectivity and objectivity are not opposites, but two sides of one coin in the inherently unstable currency of culture. One looks to the museum for leadership in that direction.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. G1); Frank Gehry's Guggenheim museum put Bilbao, Spain on the map. (Associated Press)(pg. G6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (BILBAO, SPAIN); MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM (BILBAO, SPAIN); MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NORTH ADAMS)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILBAO (SPAIN); NORTH ADAMS (MASS); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; CULTURE; SPECIAL SECTIONS; URBAN AREAS; MUSEUMS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); TRENDS (70%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); SPORTS (64%); FESTIVALS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); MUSIC (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; GEHRY, FRANK FRANK GEHRY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



445 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: Preservation Chic: Tables With a View of the Past

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS 

 BODY:
GRAY KUNZ, the four-star chef without portfolio, has generated nearly as much talk about his search for a space for his own restaurant as he did while cooking at Lespinasse. Finally, he is hoping to open in Lever House, the landmark office building on Park Avenue.
Many obstacles remain between him and a sure deal on the former employee cafeteria and terrace of Lever House, a 1952 edifice with a glass-curtain facade that changed office building design forever. Will there be enough room for the kitchen he needs, after the million-dollar extravaganza he was accustomed to at Lespinasse? Will the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission allow him to cut a door into the side of the building to allow direct access to the dining room? 
 Mr. Kunz said he knows there is "added-on difficulty with a landmarked building, but there's a lot of character and cachet."
"In a landmark space, the rewards are so much better," he said. "You have a facade, an exterior so wonderful it attracts a certain clientele that has an eye for that."
If the negotiations succeed, Mr. Kunz will join a growing contingent of New York restaurateurs who have discovered the advantages of recyling grand old spaces into culinary pleasure palaces. David Rockwell, the architect who designed Michael Jordan's: The Steak House in the landmark Grand Central Terminal, summed up the allure: "There is something about a space revealing its layers that is a richer, more exciting experience" than working in a raw space, he said. "You are trading off being able to throw up Sheetrock wherever you want for an incredible sense of quality of what was there before. There is a shortage of spaces where the space itself is the draw."
The recycling trend began two years ago when Le Cirque 2000 opened in the landmark rooms of the Henry Villard Houses, built in 1887 and now part of the New York Palace Hotel. Adam Tihany's ultramodern design was controversial. But Jennifer J. Raab, the landmarks commission's chairwoman, said: "Le Cirque did one of the best preservation jobs in the city. The new things they brought in are all temporary, and when Adam Tihany's designs are no longer the rage, a new set of designs will come."
In the last eight months, more and more owners have realized that one way to stand out in the blizzard of new restaurants with similar menus is to be in a landmark building. Tabla and Eleven Madison Park, for instance, made news in the Art Deco Metropolitan Life Building, at Madison Avenue and 24th Street; Bayard's opened in India House, the former home to the New York Cotton Exchange, built in 1851.
And more are on the way. After years of delay, construction has finally begun under the Queensboro Bridge on a project that will include two restaurants. Pier A, the Victorian building near Battery Park City whose reclamation has been in the works for 10 years, is to open in the fall as a restaurant with incomparable views of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. A private apartment in Grand Central is becoming a lounge.
Buildings like these, at "the monumental end of the spectrum," are particularly suited to restaurants, said Dr. James Marston Fitch, the founder of the Columbia University graduate program in historic preservation and a partner in Beyer Blinder Belle, the architectural firm that oversaw the restoration of Grand Central and Ellis Island. "It is new wine for old bottles," he said.
At the same time, developers have had a change of heart and finally understand that there are substantial tax credits for restoring landmarks. For landlords, a retail establishment can help pay for a restoration. "You can breathe new life into old buildings by creating a new economic engine," Mr. Rockwell said.
And the landmarks commission looks with particular favor on restaurants. "One of the great things about restaurants is that they don't call for a lot of division of space, so they keep the open feeling," Ms. Raab said. "Restaurants often prize the same features preservationists appreciate, like the ceiling."
As Mr. Kunz has discovered, even a relatively new landmark has irresistible allure. For 50 years, Dr. Fitch said, "the policy was all old buildings are bad buildings, all new buildings are good. But in the last 10 years the public hostility to old buildings has turned to enthusiastic support."
At the same time, the preservation movement has grown beyond a fringe element. New York City's 33-year-old landmark law, passed after the razing of the old Pennsylvania Station, is one of the strongest in the country, said Peg Breen, the president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, a nonprofit group that gives financial and technical help to owners of landmark properties. "Now there is more emphasis on buildings that are 30, 40 and 50 years old," like Lever House and the Four Seasons Restaurant, she said. "In many instances there is a sense of prestige to own a landmark or to live in a historic district, and people have seen their property values maintained."
The commission has designated 1,400 exteriors and 102 interiors as landmarks.
AS businesses consolidate, particularly banks, more and more grand spaces have become available. "The large turn-of-the-century buildings are perfect for restaurants because volume is a luxury" in Manhattan, said Tony Goldman, whose company, Goldman Properties, specializes in restoration. He has opened Wall Street Kitchen and Bar in the 1907 neo-classical American Bank Note Company building at 70 Broad Street in the financial district. "When you have space that is 20 or 25 feet high, there's an aura. There's value in the artistic quality -- the fabulously carved and elaborate ceilings, grand columns and craftsmanship that is not available today."
Two of the most notable new-old restaurants are in one landmark, the Metropolitan Life Building. While Tabla has Indian accents, Eleven Madison Park has retained Art Deco characteristics. The latter project "took six months extra and cost 30 percent more than had been budgeted," said Richard Coraine, the director of operations for Danny Meyer's restaurants, including these. "The whole rich history of landmarked buildings is another story to tell, and there is a certain amount of pride that the building is important for other reasons."
Bayard's, in India House at One Hanover Square, is an even more sensitive re-creation of an original space. The building, in the Italianate palazzo design, has been a private club since 1914. The club continues to operate at lunchtime, but Harry Poulakakos, who owns Harry's at Hanover Square downstairs, and his son, Peter, have restored the interior, peeling back layers of paint to reveal the magnificent architecture and mahogany double staircase, and removing the acoustical tile from the ceilings and linoleum from the floors.
Dining there is transporting, out of turn-of-the-millennium Manhattan: you almost hear the rustle of silk damask gowns and feel the warm glow from the candelabra.
Farther uptown, in TriBeCa, Henry Meer has opened City Hall in a landmark 1861 Italianate building on Duane Street that used to house a dry-goods wholesaler and was once Public School 10. The creamy yellow exterior sparkles in sunlight; inside, the dining room, with its two-story ceilings, has the original cast-iron columns and support beams, enhanced by historic photographs of New York lining the walls.
"I wasn't really looking for another restaurant," said Mr. Meer, who also owns the Cub Room in SoHo. "But being a passionate New Yorker, I always wanted a restaurant to be reflective of New York and have a New York experience."
On New York Harbor, Pier A is expected to be open by year's end with a restaurant and banquet rooms; Levy Restaurants of Chicago, which operates the highly rated Spiaggia there, is negotiating to operate them. Pier A began life in 1886 as the headquarters of the docks and ferries department and was a fireboat station before it was set for demolition to make way for Battery Park City. The metal and glass structure became a landmark in 1977, saving it, but the project, which was to take six years, is now in its 10th year. The budget has ballooned from $18 million to $26 million.
At Grand Central, the Campbell Apartment, a hidden jewel of a Florentine palazzo, is being renovated as a cocktail lounge by Mark Grossich, who calls it "a one-of-a-kind space in a one-of-a-kind space." From the 1920's to the 40's, it was the office of a wealthy businessman, John W. Campbell. The apartment, where he and his wife entertained guests, had a pipe organ and grand piano. "It gives you a sense of how large a swashbuckling tycoon lived at the time," said Mr. Grossich, who also owns Bar and Books.
The organ and piano are gone, but the rest of the apartment is being restored to its former grandeur, with painted beamed ceilings, a huge stone fireplace, an enormous leaded-glass window, even gargoyles. Mr. Grossich hopes to open by the end of spring.
The landmark revival is also renewing activity at the long-stalled Bridgemarket, the vaulted space beneath the Queensboro Bridge, leased by the London-based Conran Holdings and Joel Kissin, the owner of Guastavino's Inc., which will run two glass-front restaurants and two Conran stores. After 22 years of delays, workmen are finally cleaning the tiled ceiling, which soars 37 feet.
The restaurants are scheduled to open by year's end. One of them, Guastavino, at ground level, will be like Conran's Quaglino restaurant in London, a grill with rotisserie food. The other, Club Guastavino, a more luxurious French-accented version of Bibendum, also in London, will be on a mezzanine, where a party of two could easily leave behind $200. The names honor the architect Rafael Guastavino, a 19th-century Spanish immigrant who invented vaulted tiled ceilings, one of which can be seen in the Oyster Bar at Grand Central.
"When you go into these landmarked spaces, you get a definite sense of place, of continuity with the past," said Ms. Breen, of the Landmarks Conservancy. "Places that give you a sense of the past, and an understanding that there have been generations before you help to ground you and help to make you feel a part of New York."
 
Imbibing History, Modest and Grand
 NEW YORKERS never seem to look up. (Maybe they're afraid to appear like tourists.) But if they did, they would notice the wonderful landmarks they are often dining in.
Probably the most celebrated is Gage & Tollner, a landmark inside and out, in an Italianate 1875 building on Fulton Mall in downtown Brooklyn. A restaurant since 1892, the original goldish-bronze walls of lincrusta (the poor man's stamped leather) were restored along with the gaslights when Joe Chirico bought it in 1995.
Capsouto Freres, on Washington and Watts Streets in TriBeCa, opened in 1978 in an 1891 Flemish-style building, a former shoe factory.
Indochine, on Lafayette Place, is in a row of 1832 Greek Revival buildings, but its French planter-style interior bears no relation to the exterior, with its columns and laurel wreaths. "This was once the grandest address in all New York," said Peg Breen, the president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy.
Landmarks aren't always grand. Bridge Cafe, in a small 1801 wooden building on Water and Dover Streets, on the Manhattan side of the Brooklyn Bridge, has been a restaurant since 1826, but the interior looks Victorian, with tin ceilings and a mahogany bar.
The Ear Inn, at 326 Spring Street near Washington Street, is in a wooden building with a brick front that was built in 1817 by James Brown, an African-American aide to George Washington. And Tennessee Mountain, on Spring and Wooster Streets in SoHo, and Paolucci's, on Mulberry Street in Little Italy, are also wooden reminders of New York's past. MARIAN BURROS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1952 CLASSIC -- Lever House's terrace may become a restaurant. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); OLD BOTTLES, NEW WINE -- The 1851 India House, top left, now holds Bayard's, above. Gage & Tollner, left, keeps its 19th-century aura. Capsouto Freres is in an 1891 building, below, that once was a shoe factory. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, left; Thomas Dallal for The New York Times, above)(pg. F1); OF ANOTHER AGE -- The restaurant City Hall, above, is in an 1861 Italianate building in TriBeCa that used to house a dry-goods wholesaler and a public school. Eleven Madison Park, left, has kept the Art Deco touches of the Metropolitan Life Building. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times, top; Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times, above)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LE CIRQUE 2000 (NYC RESTAURANT) NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (50%); LEVER HOUSE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: LE CIRQUE 2000 (NYC RESTAURANT) LEVER HOUSE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (65%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LEVER HOUSE (MANHATTAN) RESTAURANTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); COTTON MARKETS (64%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (64%); 

PERSON: KUNZ, GRAY; BURROS, MARIAN MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); MICHAEL JORDAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



446 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
True North takes the lead in aiding agencies and media owned by members of minorities.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
EFFORTS to increase the consideration given to multicultural consumers are gaining momentum as one of the 10 largest agency companies, True North Communications in Chicago, takes two big steps to embrace media outlets and agencies specializing in advertising aimed at members of minorities.
True North, the world's No. 7 agency company, with billings estimated at $11.6 billion, is scheduled to announce the steps at a news conference this morning in Washington under the aegis of the American Advertising Federation. Officials of the federation are among the industry figures accelerating the search for ways to increase diversity in response to intensifying pressure from activist organizations and the Clinton Administration. 
 "The leadership of True North shows us that the greatest music is made with many voices," Vice President Al Gore said in a statement released before the news conference. "I encourage other companies to follow suit and sign on."
Executives of True North are to announce their endorsement of a voluntary code of conduct to insure that agencies and media owned by minorities get what is deemed their fair share of attention when ad dollars are spent. True North, which owns agencies like Foote, Cone & Belding and Bozell Worldwide, would become the first large agency company to endorse the equal opportunities code, known as the Kennard Principles for Fairness in Communications after William E. Kennard, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. Kennard has taken an active role in this issue since the commission released a study in January concluding that radio stations with black and Spanish-speaking audiences drew less ad revenue per listener than mainstream stations -- even in markets where they enjoyed higher ratings.
"I'm delighted to see the advertising industry moving to address these issues," Mr. Kennard said in an interview last week. "It's a great first step."
The commission has called for additional research on advertiser spending patterns in radio because the study did not specify the origin of the revenue discrepancies between stations. But owners of stations with programming aimed at members of minorities complained about what they termed "dictates" to agencies from clients calling for "minority discounts" -- paying lower rates for commercials on their stations -- and the avoidance of stations with Spanish-language or "urban" -- black -- formats.
"Those practices are pernicious," Mr. Kennard said, "based on misinformation and stereotypes. The way to solve such problems is to shine a light on them."
True North's endorsement of the code is important, Mr. Kennard said, because it represents self-regulation rather than Government intervention.
"We want to work with them," he said, referring to agencies and advertisers, "as opposed to dictating to them."
Wally Snyder, president and chief executive of the federation in Washington, agreed with Mr. Kennard.
"This is a marketplace solution," Mr. Snyder said in an interview last week, "not a Government solution. Clients are going to act on their own best financial interests, not on a political agenda."
Mr. Snyder also praised True North, whose agencies create campaigns for advertisers like the BankAmerica Corporation, the DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Levi Strauss & Company and S. C. Johnson & Son.
"This is the turning point we've been waiting for," Mr. Snyder said, adding: "We've been encouraging agencies and clients to really go after this multicultural audience because it is one with a great deal of economic clout. Now I think other agencies will follow True North."
The True North executives also plan to announce the formation of a media services agency dedicated to helping mainstream advertisers with planning and buying ad space in ethnic publications and commercial time on ethnic television and radio networks and stations.
"It's right for the times," said David Bell, who was recently named chairman and chief executive at True North. "We have a tapestry in America, and marketing needs to address that."
The media services initiative, to be called New America Media Group, will represent a partnership between two units of True North based in New York: TN Media, which handles media planning and buying for accounts with billings estimated at more than $2.6 billion, and New America Strategies Group, which offers multicultural marketing consulting services.
"This market has reached critical mass, with buying power greater than ever," said Mike Drexler, chairman at TN Media. "It can no longer be ignored or given short shrift."
"We believe we can make a big contribution to helping advertisers analyze multicultural markets for their products and services," he added, "and then to place their ads to reach those markets in the most effective way."
The new media group will be led by three media directors from agencies under the New America Strategies umbrella: LaTanya Junior, 35, at Stedman Graham & Partners, specializing in campaigns aimed at black consumers; Caleb Windover, 34, at Siboney USA, for Hispanic consumers, and Khanh Kach, 28, at a True North affiliate, Imada Wong Communications, for Asian-American consumers.
"Ethnic media have always been the extra guest at the party," said Al Schreiber, managing partner at New America Strategies. "Now they'll be the guest of honor as advertisers move from token budgets to budgets that reflect the reality of today's marketplace, where multicultural consumers are the growth market." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); DRAFTFCB INC (55%); BOZELL INC (55%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (55%); AMERICAN ADVERTISING FEDERATION (57%); AMERICAN ADVERTISING FEDERATION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS AMERICAN ADVERTISING FEDERATION (57%); AMERICAN ADVERTISING FEDERATION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); TELEVISION; RADIO MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ETHICS (72%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; KENNARD, WILLIAM E; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



447 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

 BODY:

COPPER FALLS. Copper prices declined amid expectations that sluggish growth in Europe would exacerbate a ballooning surplus of the metal. In New York, copper for May delivery dropped 1.75 cents a pound, to 68.65 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since October, 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COPPER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



448 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Resuming Sale of Land

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 20

 BODY:
The Hong Kong government held its first land auction in almost a year today and raised about 20 percent more money than analysts expected.
The government, which had suspended land sales last June in an effort to stem a sharp decline in property prices, sold three sites for a total of $1.49 billion (Hong Kong), or $192 million (United States). 
 By resuming land sales, the government has revived one of its main sources of revenue. In a city where seven of 10 companies invest in real estate, an increase in property prices may lift the stock market, too.
"It was like the first day at the races," Nicholas Brooke, chairman of Brooke International Ltd., a real estate consulting firm, said of today's bidding. "Property prices are going to rise 15 to 20 percent in the short term."
Stocks, though, fell today, hurt by speculation that companies would take advantage of the market's recent surge to issue more shares, diluting the value of investors' current holdings. The benchmark Hang Seng index, which had risen nearly 17 percent this month until today, fell 2.8 percent, or 356.66 points, to 12,409.78.
Hong Kong's three biggest developers, Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. and the Henderson Land Development Company, did not bid at today's auction. "It's much cheaper for the big developers to pay to convert agricultural land to residential use than to buy at auction," said Robert Hart, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Asia.
Still, one of the three, Henderson Land, said it planned to start raising property prices gradually, based on the results of the auction.
Mr. Brooke, the consultant, warned that a quick rebound in prices might hurt Hong Kong's competitiveness by detracting from efforts to diversify the economy away from real estate development toward high technology. "The increase isn't supported by economic fundamentals," he said. "Unemployment is still high and people are still worried about their jobs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bidders competed for three sites in Hong Kong yesterday, with the government netting $192 million. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0001 (HKSE) (91%); 0016 (HKSE) (84%); HLD (FRA) (82%); 0012 (HKSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (82%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (82%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (82%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (82%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHEUNG KONG (HOLDINGS) LTD (91%); SUN HUNG KAI PROPERTIES LTD (84%); HENDERSON LAND DEVELOPMENT CO LTD (82%); BROOKE INTERNATIONAL (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS; LAND USE POLICIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SALES; REAL ESTATE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); AUCTIONS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); TRENDS (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS BROOKE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



449 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
2 U.S. Auto Makers Delay New Factories in Brazil

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 20

 BODY:
Citing the pressure from other priorities on his state's finances, an opposition Governor in southern Brazil has disrupted plans by General Motors and the Ford Motor Company to build two car factories regarded as prototypes for automobile manufacturing of the future.
G.M. has delayed by at least six months its plans to produce compact cars at a plant code-named the "Blue Macaw" project in Rio Grande do Sul, the southernmost state. The delay could affect the auto maker's plans for similar plants in the United States and elsewhere. Ford has put on hold plans to build a plant for its "Project Amazon," also intended to produce inexpensive small cars. 
 Roughly 10,000 jobs related to the factories and more than $1 billion in investment are at stake as the two leading auto makers, already frustrated by a plunge in car sales as Brazil struggles with recession, seek an agreement with Olivio Dutra, the outspoken Workers Party governor of Rio Grande do Sul, an industrial state of 10 million.
Mr. Dutra, who took office in January, suspended an accord that his predecessor had made with G.M. and Ford to provide the two companies with about $280 million of financing and infrastructure in exchange for their decision to build the factories near Porto Alegre, the state capital.
One of the rising stars of the Workers Party, the main organized opposition to President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's Government, Mr. Dutra contends that his state needs the money previously designated for the factories to finance programs in education, health care and housing.
The president of G.M.'s Brazilian subsidiary, Frederick Henderson, said in an interview that "there are certain things we need like gas, waste-water treatment, roads and electricity, to proceed." Without the Government's help in finishing these projects, the G.M. factory will not be ready to produce cars until mid-2000 -- about six months later than expected, Mr. Henderson said.
The conflict between the car producers and Mr. Dutra is part of a wider argument, in which several Brazilian states have resorted to unorthodox measures to shore up their finances. Another Governor, Itamar Franco of Minas Gerais in central Brazil, declared a moratorium on his state's debt payments to the federal Government at the beginning of the year, a decision that contributed to a market panic and a currency crisis.
Mr. Dutra also threatened default, but backed off after pressure from President Cardoso, and has since refocused his energy on G.M. and Ford.
The Governor's conflict with the auto makers is complicating what until recently were plans for the two advanced factories, which have been closely followed by world car makers. G.M.'s Blue Macaw plant is designed to function as a "factory condominium," as described by Mr. Henderson, in which 16 suppliers operate on the same site. G.M. has hoped to produce as many as 150,000 compact cars annually at the plant.
At the nearby site for the Ford factory, where only the ground has been prepared for construction, suppliers are also expected to be more involved in production. The plant was scheduled to start production in 2001, with annual output of 150,000 cars. Since the factory is in such an early stage, representatives from the state government have said there is a possibility that Ford may switch the location to another state. Officials from Ford's Brazilian subsidiary declined to comment.
Mr. Dutra has explained his actions by saying that the incentives granted by the previous Governor, Antonio Britto, were unrealistic, given Rio Grande do Sul's need to improve basic services. In addition, the state government faces a budget deficit of roughly $60 million a month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO GRANDE DO SUL (BRAZIL); BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOUSING; LABOR AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; DUTRA, OLIVO (GOV) FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



450 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Scandal Inquiry Hurts Brazilian Markets

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 20

 BODY:
Nervousness over a legislative inquiry into reported irregularities during a Government bailout of two banks earlier this year unsettled Brazilian financial markets today, cutting some recent gains.
The currency, the real, fell in New York to a rate of 1.7125 to the dollar, from 1.6775 on Monday, while the benchmark Bovespa stock index gave up 4 percent before recuperating to close at 10,989.42, down 207.18 points, or 1.85 percent. 
 The declines were spurred by concern that an investigation into accusations of a central bank-orchestrated bailout in January of two investment banks might damage the credibility of some high-ranking Government officials.
The bailout was organized by Francisco Lopes, who has since been replaced as head of the central bank by Arminio Fraga. Mr. Lopes, now a consultant in Rio de Janeiro, cited emotional pressure in a request to delay testimony before a congressional panel investigating the allegations, which include bribery and trading on inside information.
There has been some speculation that Mr. Lopes might disclose incriminating details of the bank rescue. But some financial analysts said that concern about the scandal was overdone. "This happened under previous bank management, lessening the fallout," said Tulio Vera, a Latin American sovereign debt analyst at ABN Amro Bank. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (84%); AAR (FRA) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: ABN AMRO BANK NV (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; BANKS AND BANKING INVESTIGATIONS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INSIDER TRADING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BRIBERY (70%); ETHICS (65%); 

PERSON: LOPES, FRANCISCO; FRAGA, ARMINIO FRANCISCO LOPES (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



451 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Continues to Balloon, Hitting $19.4 Billion

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit jumped unexpectedly to previously unheard of levels in February as consumers bought growing quantities of imports and declining demand from abroad hurt exporters, the Government reported today.
The deficit in goods and services in February surged to a new monthly high of $19.4 billion, the Commerce Department said, $2.6 billion more than January's deficit of $16.8 billion, which itself had been a record. Economists had expected February's deficit to be around $16.7 billion. The figures are adjusted to smooth out seasonal variations in trade patterns. 
 Imports in February rose by $2.1 billion, to $96 billion. Exports declined by $500 million, to $76.6 billion.
The figures reflected the persistent and in some ways increasing gap between the economic strength of the United States and the downturns plaguing nearly all of its trading partners, from Asia to Europe to Latin America.
Alone among the world's major countries, the United States is a magnet for imports of goods and services, helping to avert even deeper global economic problems. With unemployment low and stock prices up sharply since the beginning of the year, American consumers have been spending freely, and they are finding bargains in imports.
But because demand for American-made goods has been diminished by weakness in other countries, the growing trade deficit is hurting many manufacturers and farmers in the United States and slowing growth. Economists said declining exports appear to have slowed the economy's expansion to about a 3 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year from twice that in last year's fourth quarter.
The growth in the deficit after a year and a half of economic upheaval around the world added to an escalating debate over how willing the United States should be to leave its markets open to other countries that do not fully reciprocate.
Groups like farmers, steelworkers and textile makers are already howling about unfair competition from abroad, and making their influence felt in Washington. The next major flash point is likely to come in a few months, when the Clinton Administration is expected to complete a deal to bring China into the World Trade Organization and seek approval from a deeply divided Congress.
President Clinton used the figures today to bolster his call for an overhaul of the world's financial system in the wake of the turmoil that sped from Asia to Russia and Latin America in the last year.
"Though our economy has continued to grow, we have been affected by the Asian financial crisis as you can see by our trade figures, by what has happened in steel and by the loss of markets by our farmers," Mr. Clinton said in a speech at the White House.
Saying that this was "not a moment for complacency," Mr. Clinton outlined a series of principles he said the United States would advance in coming months as the major industrial nations consider how to overhaul the financial system and avert future international economic upheaval. They include tighter bank lending rules and encouraging developing nations to rely less on short-term loans.
Advocates of free trade have become increasingly worried about what they see as growing protectionist pressures. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, denounced protectionism in a speech on Friday and made a case that while dropping trade barriers can be painful it ultimately adds to the nation's prosperity.
But organized labor and companies in the industries being hit hardest continue to argue that fair trade rather than free trade should be the nation's goal. John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., called today's trade figures "cause for real alarm," and said the worst may not yet be past for American workers.
"In the last year we lost over 350,000 manufacturing jobs," Mr. Sweeney said in a speech in Chicago. "And no one knows how long we can survive as an island of prosperity in a sea of trouble."
With Japan still mired in recession, growth in Western Europe slowing and Latin America struggling, some economists and business groups said they expected demand for exports to be tepid for the rest of the year. Rising oil prices could also make the deficit look bigger in coming months.
The trade deficit, said Gordon Richards, an economist at the National Association of Manufacturers, "won't improve substantially until the world economy recovers, and that is still some time away."
Other economists, however, said there were signs that the decline in export demand had bottomed out and that manufacturing was ready to rebound. Among the signs they cited was a rise in export orders tallied by the National Association of Purchasing Management in February and March, suggesting that shipments to foreign customers could pick up in coming months.
February marked the fourth consecutive month of declining exports, and the figures showed weakening demand in February from most of the country's major trading partners. The deficit of trade in goods with Mexico increased to $1.8 billion from $1.4 billion, using figures that are not seasonally adjusted. The goods deficit with Japan increased to $5.3 billion for the month from $4.7 billion in January. Demand from Western Europe dropped sharply, sending the monthly deficit in trade of goods to $2.2 billion from $1.4 billion.
Much of the decline in exports was in agricultural products, including soybeans, and in commercial aircraft, a notoriously volatile component of the figures that is almost totally dependent on the Boeing Company's delivery schedule for sales to foreign airlines.
The rise in imports was concentrated in consumer goods, including clothing, toys and sporting goods, with a surge as well in the number of imported cars.
One of the few relative bright spots was a slight decline in the deficit with China. The goods deficit with China declined to $4.6 billion in February from $4.9 billion in January. But over the last few years, the deficit with China has grown to the point that it rivals the deficit with Japan as the biggest two-way trade gap.
But with the Administration about to make a push to seal a trade deal with China, Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said Beijing still had to prove that it was willing to play by international rules and drop the barriers that have kept companies from the United States and other countries out of its markets.
"If China wants to be a true global trading partner and a member of the World Trade Organization," Mr. Daley told reporters today, "the Chinese Government must promptly agree to open her markets to foreign goods and services."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"
Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Chart shows the amount of imports over exports in the billions for 1997 to 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; EUROPE; JAPAN; CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (65%); TEXTILE MFG (65%); TEXTILE MILLS (65%); FABRIC MILLS (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



452 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
The inflation rate is likely to rise this year. But why worry.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
THE rate of inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, is likely to jump this year, from the exceedingly comfortable 1.6 percent of last year to more than 2 percent.
That would not constitute a surge. But the rate of increase has shrunk for three straight years. And in annual terms, the inflation rate has risen only twice in the last eight years. 
 If oil prices continue to gather steam, though, the monthly data could even prompt headlines about inflation rising at an annual rate approaching 3 percent.
The possibility that such numbers might upset the stock and bond markets on the days they are reported led Abby Joseph Cohen, co-chairwoman of the investment policy committee at Goldman, Sachs & Company, to warn her clients recently that investors in the coming months should be wary of the "noise" in the C.P.I. and the related Producer Price Index.
Still, there is no reason to worry too much about these numbers. The main culprit is higher oil prices, and the inflation projections are based on the assumption that these prices will stick, not a sure thing. Even if they do, neither the Federal Reserve nor the bond market will get too upset if that's the only problem, as it is not considered big enough to alter the long-term outlook for inflation.
In fact, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned Congress in February that several one-time factors that depressed inflation in 1998 -- including low oil prices -- would not be present this year.
But he added that "recent experience does seem to suggest that the economy has become less inflation-prone than in the past, so that the chances of an inflationary breakout arguably are, at least for now, less than they would have been under similar conditions in earlier cycles."
The March consumer price data seemed to prove him right. Although the energy index jumped 1.6 percent -- its first increase since October -- the overall index rose just two-tenths of 1 percent, resulting in a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.5 percent for the first three months of the year.
Another positive sign: other commodity prices remain generally low. Though the Bridge/Commodity Research Bureau index of 17 commodities has jumped 4 percent from the 24-year low it set at the end of February, the index is virtually unchanged for the year -- even with oil included.
Oil prices, which have added to their gains in the last week, are up 48 percent this year, and scrap metal prices have risen 3 percent. But the prices of raw industrial materials are down 2.6 percent and food prices are off 4.7 percent.
Prices paid for imports have also slid, in part because of the dollar's growing strength this year, a rally many forecasters did not expect. In March, prices of imports other than fuel fell four-tenths of 1 percent, the biggest drop in seven months.
Surprising gains in worker productivity, especially this late in an economic cycle, are also restraining inflation by partly offsetting the increase in wages. And the pace of wage increases themselves, despite the lowest unemployment rate in 29 years, is slowing.
All these positive forces have led many forecasters to dismiss concerns about a change in the inflationary climate, even if rising oil prices push the overall C.P.I. number higher. In fact, a move toward 2 percent would only bring the index in line with the "core C.P.I.," the index without the volatile food and energy components. Last year, this core index rose 2.3 percent from 1997. So the only element being lost is the extra bit of help that the C.P.I. got last year from plunging oil prices.
The bond market seems to share that view. Investors did push interest rates sharply higher in January when it became clear that 1999 economic growth would be much stronger than had been expected. But by the time oil prices began to take off in late February, the yield on the 30-year bond had already risen to 5.70 percent. And now with the price of a barrel of oil just shy of $18, the yield on the 30-year bond has retreated to 5.50 percent.
In their February meeting, Fed policy makers said that "a somewhat less favorable inflation performance was viewed as likely over the year ahead," according to minutes of the meeting. But they concluded that this would not result in "any substantial deterioration in the inflation climate."
What could alter the climate? Oil prices could keep rising. But more threatening would be a revival in other commodity prices. That would signal a significant rebound in world economic growth, which in turn would increase wage and inflationary pressures here.
But with no new inflationary pressures now -- outside of oil -- it's too early to worry. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INFLATION (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); STATISTICS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



453 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Chase Posts 61% Rise in Net Earnings

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Several of the nation's big banks reported sharply higher earnings yesterday, with one of the biggest, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, posting robust trading gains comparable to the outsized results already turned in by most of the country's big trading houses.
Benefiting from an unusually strong trading season spurred by a rebound from the global financial crisis of last fall, Chase said first-quarter net earnings leaped 61 percent, to $1.17 billion, or $1.32 a share, from $725 million, or 80 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1998. 
 Chase's operating income, a more accurate reflection of the company's core earnings strength than net income, rose a more modest 11 percent, to $1.17 billion from $1.05 billion. Net income in the comparable quarter a year earlier included a reorganization charge of $521 million.
Although Chase, the country's third-largest bank by assets, beat analysts' expectations of $1.25 a share, the stock was sharply lower yesterday as investors appeared to be concerned about the unpredictability of such big trading returns and Chase's ability to maintain its earnings momentum. The shares, which have more than doubled in the last year, fell $2, to $83.
"Given how everyone has been blowing through their numbers, I think there were higher expectations for Chase," said Sally Pope Davis, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company. "But nobody should complain about these numbers, because they're very strong."
Chase's revenue in the quarter rose 11 percent, to $5.14 billion, from $4.62 billion in last year's first quarter. Revenue from the New York bank's global corporate business, Chase's most important segment and the one that includes trading, rose 8 percent, to $2.6 billion, while profits in the unit rose 11 percent, to $882 million. Trading revenue rose 21 percent, to a record $837 million. But investment banking fees fell 12 percent, to $317 million, on weakness in the leveraged-finance business.
The consumer unit, Chase's other main business, saw sales climb 12 percent, to $2.16 billion. But that business is much less profitable than Chase's corporate business, generating earnings of $350 million.
The Bank One Corporation, the fourth-largest bank in the country and the product of last year's merger of Bank One and the First Chicago NBD Corporation, also reported strong earnings yesterday. It said profits jumped 23 percent, to $1.15 billion, or 96 cents a share, from $933 million, or 78 cents a share, in the first quarter last year. The Chicago-based bank said that on an operating basis, earnings rose nearly 16 percent, to $1.05 billion, or 88 cents a share, from $909 million, or 76 cents, meeting analysts' expectations.
But the shares slipped 25 cents, to $59, yesterday as investors' confidence in the bank weakened.
Bank One's stock was severly battered in the wake of last year's merger as questions arose about the company's ability to rein in expenses and still increase revenue, although it has recovered smartly in recent months. But while yesterday's results showed renewed expense discipline, Bank One still reported numbers that in Wall Street parlance were "noisy." The results included $360 million of one-time gains offset by merger and restructuring charges of $204 million.
The bank also posted a big increase in nonperforming assets, a harbinger of possible lending problems. It had $1.15 billion in nonperforming assets in the quarter, up from $819 million at the end of last year and far above the $670 million at the end of 1997. Bank One said the recent surge was a result of $302 million of problem loans to financial services and energy companies.
Wells Fargo & Company of San Francisco, the seventh-largest bank in the country, said its first-quarter earnings rose 29 percent, to $884 million, or 53 cents a share, from $684 million, or 41 cents a share in the comparable quarter last year.
The results exceeded analysts' expectations of 50 cents a share, sending the bank's shares up $1.25 yesterday, to $42.375. Wells attributed its strong performance to solid growth in mortgage lending and returns from venture capital investments.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Big Banks Fared"
Bank holding companies among the nation's 25 largest (ranked by assets) whose quarterly results were released yesterday. Dollar figures are in millions except per-share amounts; percentage changes are from the corresponding quarter a year earlier.
 
BANK -- BANK ONE
SYMB. -- ONE
QTR. -- 1ST
RESULTS -- REVENUE $4,899 (+15.6%) $0.96; NET INCOME $1,151 (+23.0%)
 
BANK -- Chase Manhattan
SYMB. -- CMB
QTR. -- 1ST
RESULTS -- REVENUE $5,144 (+11.0%) 1.32; NET INCOME $1,173 (+61.0%)
 
BANK -- Wells Fargo
SYMB. -- WFC
QTR. -- 1ST
RESULTS -- REVENUE $4,008 (+7.1%) 0.53; NET INCOME $884 (+29.0%)
 
*Diluted earnings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BANK ONE CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; WELLS FARGO & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK ONE CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; WELLS FARGO & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MERGERS (68%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



454 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Warns Global Economy Could Slow This Year and Next

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund warned today that global economic growth could slow in 1999 and perhaps into 2000, hurt by weakness in Russia, Asia, Brazil and some regions of Europe, notably those ravaged by the Kosovo conflict.
The group's latest world economic outlook said that "several hurdles could prevent global growth from returning to potential within two or three years." 
 The lending agency's assessment was issued at the beginning of a weeklong meeting in Washington by officials of the I.M.F. and the World Bank. Its cautious tone followed the I.M.F.'s conspicuous failure to foresee the 1997 economic crash in Southeast Asia and its havoc on financial markets around the world, the subsequent financial crisis in Russia and parts of Eastern Europe or the more recent economic tremors in Brazil, Latin America's largest economy.
C. Fred Bergsten, who runs the Institute for International Economics here, said the I.M.F. caution also reflected its desire to fight complacency that could come in weakened economies if they show signs of improvement.
"The fund is afraid that if recovery starts, the countries of Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe will back off from the deep structural economic reforms the recent crises showed they must make," he said.
The I.M.F. predicted a 2.3 percent global economic growth rate this year, down from 2.5 percent in 1998 and 4.2 percent in 1997.
It predicted a 3.4 percent growth rate in 2000. That projection assumed a steady improvement in the emerging-market economies, a gradual slowing of the American economy to a more sustainable pace, resilience in Europe and an end to the Japanese recession. But the I.M.F. said the weakness this year in Brazil, China and Russia, as well as the possibility that Japan's recession could worsen, could lead to "a distinct possibility of a less favorable scenario developing."
It also said economic activity in the former Communist countries of southeastern Europe would be affected by the Kosovo crisis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; BRAZIL; EUROPE; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE (96%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); TRENDS (73%); 

PERSON: ;LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



455 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: High Seas, Higher Costs;
As Imports Swamp Exports, Shipping Lines Try to Cope

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 20

 BODY:
Come May 1, the ocean-shipping business will be largely deregulated, setting off a scramble among shipping lines to lure customers with discounts. The same day, however, virtually all ships carrying goods from Asia to the United States plan to raise their rates by the same, mutually agreed, amount.
If this sounds contradictory, it is. But the state of affairs reflects the forces buffeting the shipping business, which is now going through some of the biggest changes in its tradition-bound history. 
 Under the partial deregulation, container shipping lines for the first time will be able to sign individual, confidential contracts with importers and exporters. The competition to sign up such customers is expected to greatly loosen the grip of the cartels that have legally set rates for ocean shipping for more than a century.
But the shipping industry's unusual immunity from Federal antitrust laws -- something it has enjoyed almost ever since there were antitrust laws -- is not being eliminated. So even as they enter a less regulated era, the shipping lines, reeling from low profits and overcapacity, are collectively raising rates on imports from Asia by 30 percent or more.
The result is a clash between the old and new ways of doing business, and no one is quite sure how it will turn out.
Many analysts expect that eventually container shipping will follow the paths of airlines, trucking and railroads, which began their deregulation two decades ago. There will be lower prices and better service over all, but also a brutal period of mergers and bankruptcies among the competitors.
Others say that the continued right to set rates collectively will blunt these effects. "It isn't going to be airlines," said Ashley Craig, a consultant at Rodriguez & Associates, a Washington law firm that represents small importers and exporters. "It isn't going to be rail or trucks."
Regardless of which way shipping costs move, consumers might not notice much difference because for most goods, such as imported sneakers or videocassette recorders, shipping costs contribute only a tiny amount to the final price.
Still, with more than $400 billion in goods entering or leaving the United States each year on container ships, even little changes mount up. Moreover, shipping lines, pressed to cut costs further, might make even more demands for concessions from taxpayer-supported ports. Sea-Land Service, a unit of the CSX Corporation, and Maersk Inc. of Copenhagen, a subsidiary of the A.P. Moller Group, are now making such demands of the ports of New York and New Jersey and Baltimore, which are vying for the lines' business, with jobs and income at stake.
The last thing many shipping executives want right now is more competition. The economic downturn in Asia, which has led to record trade deficits for the United States, has also caused serious imbalances for their lines. And the situation may well continue: The Commerce Department reported today that the nation's trade deficit jumped to a new monthly high of $19.4 billion in February, largely on the strength of imports and the weakening demand for exports.
Ships bringing imports to the United States from East Asia, the largest trade route in the world, are stuffed to capacity, but the ships going back to Asia are half-empty. Shipping lines say they need revenue on both legs to make a profit. And that is why they are raising rates in the busy direction.
"I've been in the business 30 years and the imbalance has never been that bad," said Albert A. Pierce, chairman and executive director of the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, the group of carriers that decided on the May 1 rate increase.
The bulging trade deficit can be seen in the form of empty shipping containers stacked four high on the piers at the adjacent ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles, which together handle about a third of the nation's container traffic. For many months last year, as exports to Asia dried up, more empty containers were being sent back to Asia than full ones.
"Our No. 1 export was empty containers," said Harold J. Hilliard, marketing manager for the Port of Long Beach, the nation's largest. In the last few months, amid some signs of recovery in Asia, loaded containers heading to Asia have slightly outnumbered the empties.
Meanwhile, imports have been unusually strong early this year as importers ship early to beat the May 1 increase and a possible strike by longshoremen this summer. They also fear a repeat of the delays that occurred last year, when not enough ships and containers were available to handle all the imports from Asia that had suddenly become cheaper for Americans when Asian currencies were devalued.
"Quite a few of our Christmas decorations arrived too late for the season," said John Carrier, import traffic manager of World Bazaar Inc., a housewares importer based in City of Commerce, Calif. The per-container price he paid rose from $1,400 to as much as $3,000.
Many executives expect the same thing to happen this summer. "The big issue this year is 'I don't care what it costs, just get me on a ship,' " said Tom Craig, head of the LTD Shippers Association, which represents 500 small importers and exporters.
Taking advantage of the seller's market, the shipping lines said they would raise rates by $900 for a 40-foot container coming to the West Coast from Asia, with an additional $300 surcharge from June through November, the peak season. That represents an increase of 30 percent to 100 percent over current rates, which range from $1,100 to more than $3,000, depending on the merchandise and the route.
Robert Camarena, vice president for operations and global logistics for Vans Inc., a footwear company, said that shipping contributed about 35 cents to 50 cents to the cost of a pair of shoes; the rate increase, he said, would add 15 cents to 20 cents to that. An executive at another footwear company cited even lower costs.
Still, while consumers might not notice, even pennies matter to corporate profit margins. Retailers "won't even take a 15-cent hit," Mr. Camarena said, worried that his company might have to absorb the increase on millions of pairs of shoes.
A major question, however, is whether such a coordinated rate increase will hold under the new Ocean Shipping Reform Act, enacted in October by Congress. These changes, the first in 15 years, will allow importers and exporters to sign confidential contracts with a shipping company. Big importers -- the Wal-Marts and Nikes of the world -- are expected to obtain hefty discounts.
Until now container shipping lines have been "common carriers" like the phone company, accepting all customers at published rates. Most rates have been set by cartels known as conferences. Importers and exporters could negotiate their own contracts, often with the entire conference, sometimes with an individual shipping line. The terms of such contracts were public and other importers or exporters had the right to demand the same rate.
The conference system has already started to fray in anticipation of May 1. The Asia North America Eastbound Rate Agreement, known as Anera, which sets rates for containers heading from Asia to the United States, will disband on April 30, as will its westbound counterpart. Somewhat similar changes are occurring on the Atlantic Ocean.
Still, Anera is being replaced by the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a "discussion group" that is housed in the same office in San Francisco. Such groups will not have legally binding rate-setting authority, as the conferences do. But that has not stopped members of the group from "voluntarily" agreeing to raise rates.
Shipping is one of the few industries -- others include Major League Baseball and farm cooperatives -- to enjoy some immunity from antitrust laws. First granted in 1916, immunity was apparently rationalized as a way to prevent price wars and bankruptcies that could lead to a shortage of shipping capacity. It applies to regularly scheduled shipping lines, not to oil tankers and bulk commodity carriers, which are not regulated and thus not affected by the new law.
The container shipping lines fought successfully to retain the antitrust exemption in October's legislation, arguing that the United States had to be in accord with other nations, which allow collective rate-setting. An argument was also made that American shipping lines, which are more easily subject to prosecution by the Justice Department than foreign companies, would be at a disadvantage if immunity ended -- even though few American lines remain.
Deregulation was pushed most strongly by big importers and exporters, which wanted not only lower rates but also the more tailored service they could get through contracts with a single shipping line. While these companies wanted to eliminate the antitrust immunity, they compromised with the shipping lines to get the bill passed. Peter Gatti, director of policy for the National Industrial Transportation League, which represents major importers and exporters, said that in an era of individual contracts, collective rate-setting would not be as important as before anyway.
Even without deregulation, the shipping conferences have been the cartels that couldn't shoot straight. Companies added so many new ships that overcapacity resulted, driving down prices. Some major shipping companies, such as Taiwan's Evergreen Line, never joined.
"We've been much less successful than even OPEC," said Torey Presti, vice president of regulatory affairs for APL Ltd., a major shipping line based in Oakland, Calif. Neptune Orient Lines of Singapore, which acquired APL in 1997, lost $263 million last year.
APL's sale left Sea-Land Service as the only American shipping line among the 10 largest global carriers serving the United States -- this despite Government subsidies of about $2 million a year to ships with American flags and crews that can be turned over to the Pentagon in times of war.
Sea-Land's operating profits, after growing for several years, dropped by half in 1998 and there are rumors that CSX might sell all or part of the shipping line.
John P. Clancey, chief executive of Sea-Land, predicted that deregulation would actually lead to higher profits for the best shipping lines, which would be able to develop closer relationships with key customers.
Companies like Sea-Land and APL hope to offer global contracts, rather than ocean by ocean, and to provide more sophisticated services, such as coordinating a customer's entire supply network. APL, for instance, is managing the shipments of parts to a General Motors factory in Thailand, even the shipments over land.
To speed cargo movements and cut costs, APL has also invested heavily in cargo terminals like the one here in Los Angeles, where 200 trucks come and go each hour, picking up or dropping off containers that are assigned spaces by a computer in a vast parking lot.
Changes to the business might be gradual, but jarring just the same.
"Maritime finds it harder to change than almost anybody because it's steeped in tradition," said Jil Morley, transportation manager for Blue Diamond Growers, a cooperative of almond growers. But with deregulation, she said, "I'm expecting it to get more like the real world, like the rest of the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the APL wharf at Terminal Island in the Port of Los Angeles, the freighter President Hoover was being loaded mostly with empty shipping containers. (Ted Soqui for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "Trade List"
In the wake of the Asian financial crisis, a growing imbalance of trade with Asia is creating difficulties for the shipping industry, especially between the West Coast and east Asia, the world's heaviest trade corridor. Graphs plot West Coast imports from east Asia, West Coast exports to east Asia, from 1993 through 1998, and number of outbound loaded and empty containers for the Port of Long Beach, from 1995 through 1999. (Sources: Piers/Journal of Commerce; The Port of Long Beach)(pg. C1)
 
"Shipping Giants"
The top carriers of containers to and from the United States.
 
Thousands of containers shipped in 1998
 
Sea-Land Service (United States) -- 688
Evergreen Line (Taiwan) -- 649
Maersk (Denmark) -- 532
Hanjin Shipping (South Korea) -- 451
APL (Singapore) -- 447
China Ocean Shipping (China) -- 328
Hyundai Merchant Marine (South Korea) -- 318
P&O Nedlloyd (Britain/Germany) -- 275
Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan) -- 265
Yangming Marine Line (South Korea) -- 262
 
(Source: Piers/Journal of Commerce)(pg. C27)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 258 OCEAN SHIPPING REFORM ACT OF 1997 (53%); 

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (81%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (81%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (62%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); DENMARK (66%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (51%); 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (81%); MAERSK INC (62%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (51%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); DENMARK (66%); WEST USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (51%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CONTAINERIZATION; FREIGHT FORWARDING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; CARTELS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BANKRUPTCIES DEREGULATION (93%); MARINE SHIPPING (91%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); AIRLINES (70%); CONTRACTS LAW (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



456 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Budget Panel Irks Mayor With Proposed Cap on Stadium Subsidies

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
City tax subsidies for stadium projects for the Yankees and Mets should be limited to a maximum of $46.2 million annually, a nonpartisan watchdog group said yesterday.
In a letter to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Citizens Budget Commission said its study found that teams playing in new or renovated facilities would generate enough economic activity in the city to justify yearly subsidies of $23.1 million per team. If used to pay off 25-year bonds, the subsidies could total $636 million. 
 "We're not suggesting that he spend to the limit," said Charles Brecher, executive vice president of the commission. "If he commits the maximum, that would be a C minus. If he commits more, he'd take too much from the economy."
The commission said the city could rationalize paying the subsidies because each team would generate an estimated $29.5 million a year for the city's economy if they played in new or renovated facilities. The suggested subsidy figure is lower because it deducts projected costs of maintenance and other expenses.
Although the study appears to support Mr. Giuliani's staunch belief that new stadiums can spur economic development, he said yesterday that the commission was "dead wrong" in its assessment of the benefits.
"Actually, the city makes more from a single World Series, by a lot," he said, rejecting the study's economic benefit figure of $29.5 million. "But thank goodness the Citizens Budget Commission isn't running the budget."
He added, "If I took their advice on baseball stadiums, I would make a terrible, terrible mistake. The baseball teams generate a tremendous amount for our local economy. They generate a lot more than many other businesses, and that's how they have to be treated, in a proportionate way."
The City Comptroller's office issued a report during last year's World Series estimating that the Yankees generated $251 million for the city's economy during the regular season, and $67 million more during the postseason, including $31 million for two World Series games.
The commission's figure was based on spending by out-of-towners on tickets, parking, concessions, and meals, plus the city taxes paid in those areas. Spending by city residents was excluded because, the commission said, they would spend money on other entertainment if a team moved.
The Comptroller's figure was based on the much broader universe of game-related spending by all fans, as well as team media revenues and stadium advertising sales, plus local bar and restaurant receipts.
Last year, a study released by the Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, pegged the Yankees' economic impact on the city at $30 million annually, and he suggested that the city should provide $175 million to pay for a $525 million redevelopment of the stadium and its environs into a Yankee Village.
Still, any plan awaits a decision from George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the principal owner of the Yankees, about keeping his team at Yankee Stadium, where its lease expires in 2002. Last week, he displayed a willingness to remain there if there is a plan to revitalize the South Bronx. He has pushed for a ballpark over the West Side rail yards of Manhattan or in New Jersey, but the viability of both options has faded.
The cost of a new or renovated stadium for the Yankees has been estimated as high as $1 billion, while a stadium with a retractable dome for the Mets, which is being planned for completion in 2003, would cost about $500 million.
The study again raises the feasibility of government financing of stadiums for profitable private businesses, like the Yankees and Mets. The commission said each team's potential economic impact in new facilities is a "significant stimulus" worthy of a subsidy.
But Mark S. Rosentraub, an expert on sports economics who is an associate dean in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University, said, "We already know sports is too small to be thought of as an economic development tool. As a percentage of New York City's economy, team sports is minuscule." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION; NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION; NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); SHEA STADIUM (NYC); TAXATION STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (86%); CITY LIFE (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); SANDOMIR, RICHARD RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



457 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Plans $157 Million In Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will propose $157 million in new tax cuts when he unveils his budget plan tomorrow, including a tax credit that would benefit 600,000 low-income families, his aides said yesterday.
The tax cut proposals were the latest in a series that city officials have put forth in recent months as the local economy has thrived and city coffers have overflowed. In January, Mr. Giuliani proposed $248 million in tax reductions as part of his $35.4 billion preliminary budget. And in March, City Council leaders called for tax cuts worth $700 million. 
 While the Giuliani administration and the Council both expect squabbling over which taxes to cut during the budget negotiations, they say that discussion will be a pleasant change from last year's battle over the Mayor's plan to build a new Yankee Stadium in Manhattan.
"We have turned the corner in our fiscal world to the point where the most important thing that we can do for New Yorkers is debate tax cuts," said Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for Operations. "The debate is going to be about how many taxes to cut, what kind of taxes to cut and how deep they get cut."
The most significant of the 10 proposals yesterday is a city earned income tax credit for the working poor, similar to those available at the state and Federal levels. Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone has proposed a similar credit, but his version would provide a larger tax break for fewer families.
Mr. Vallone says his proposal would give 450,000 low-income families an average tax credit of $360 and cost the city $190 million a year. Mr. Giuliani's version would provide 600,000 families with an average credit of $80 and cost $48 million a year.
In both cases, the city would cover only a small amount of the cut; the bulk would be paid out of surplus Federal welfare money available because of the drop in welfare rolls.
The proposals announced yesterday were recommended by a commission that Mr. Giuliani appointed in January to identify unreasonable taxes. They include eliminating the city sales tax on books, which adds up to $25 million a year; eliminating a tax that car owners pay when they register their vehicles, which would cost the city $15 million a year, and a reduction in the sales tax on building materials, which would mean a loss of $48 million a year.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that his tax cut proposals were justified because the city has "one of the largest surpluses in history" for the third year in a row. He estimated in January that the budget surplus was $1.6 billion, but his aides said yesterday that he would release a larger figure tomorrow.
Council leaders insist that the surplus is at least $2.1 billion, which is why they want more substantial tax cuts of $700 million as against Mr. Giuliani's $405 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); INCOME TAX (73%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



458 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Power Plants Dirtier in '98

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Air pollution from 21 aging power plants across New York State rose significantly last year, according to a report released yesterday by several private environmental, health, and consumer groups.
Although New York State environmental officials did not dispute the findings on these plants, they said that the state had reduced overall power-plant pollution by half from the level in 1990. 
 At the plants, which use decades-old technology and burn mainly oil or coal, there was a 21 percent rise last year in emissions of sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain and respiratory problems, and a 12 percent rise in releases of nitrogen oxides, which cause acid rain and smog, according to the report.
The study said that the persistent problems at these plants, the state's most polluting, could cause health problems for communities downwind in New York and New England, which receives some of New York's pollution along with the flow from more highly polluting plants in the Midwest.
The plants cited in the report are scattered across the state, from Port Jefferson on Long Island and Astoria, Queens, to the Hudson Valley and Niagara County. They were highlighted because they all produce at least 100 tons more nitrogen oxides annually than the Federal standard allowed for new plants burning coal, said Cori Traub, an author of the report and director of air and energy projects for Environmental Advocates, a private lobbying group in Albany. The other organizations publishing the study were the New York Public Interest Research Group and the New York chapter of the American Lung Association. The data were provided by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
New York State environmental officials said the state was a national leader at cutting power-plant pollution, by focusing efforts on newer plants, where major improvements can be made at a low cost, instead of forcing expensive improvements at old plants. Samuel Thernstrom, a spokesman for the State Department of Environmental Conservation, said that the drop in the state's total emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides since 1990 was due mainly to a shift to cleaner fuels, like natural gas, and improved pollution-capturing gear for smokestacks.
He added that by far the biggest air problem for New York still lay to the west. In fact, he said, some individual coal-fired power plants in the Ohio River Valley produce more sulfur and nitrogen pollution than all New York's industries combined. This pollution drifts east, damaging forests and lakes and causing health problems like asthma.
Nonetheless, the authors of the report said that more must be done to clean up what they called the dirty 21. The 21 plants are responsible for half the total emission of the nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide released by all industries in the state, according to the analysis.
If they are not forced to clean up to the same standard as other plants, Ms. Traub said, they will have a competitive advantage over newer plants that are required to install costly pollution-control gear. "With deregulation happening," Ms. Traub said, "it's unfair that these plants have this competitive advantage, that they're able to run more cheaply under outdated standards."
But Mr. Thernstrom said that if New York clamped down too hard on its dirtiest plants, utility companies might simply close them and buy power from even dirtier ones in the Midwest.
The study comes as most of the state's plants are being sold off by utilities like Consolidated Edison and Niagara Mohawk under new state regulations aimed at ending monopolies in the power industry.
Carol Murphy, the executive director of the Independent Power Producers Association of New York, said that the rise in emissions last year was unlikely to be repeated, because many of the new owners are planning to modernize the plants, either switching to a cleaner fuel, natural gas, or installing more efficient equipment that reduces pollution.
Also in the background is an intensifying fight between the Midwest and the Northeast over cutting pollution from old plants that rely on coal and oil. Several bills that would curtail pollution, sponsored by legislators from eastern states, are making the rounds in Congress.
But environmental groups say that New York could spur improvements by passing a state law requiring that any electricity sold in the state, whether it is generated here or elsewhere, be produced at plants using the cleanest standard, said Ashok Gupta, an economist who conducted a similar study two years ago for the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (58%); NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ACID RAIN (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (79%); SMOG (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ASTHMA (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (70%); WRITERS (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C CORI TRAUB (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



459 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: New Zoning Leaves Room For Skyline Of the Future

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
Joseph B. Rose wants to make New York safe for architecture once again.
That is one clear point that emerged in a wide-ranging speech on the reform of zoning policy that Mr. Rose, the Giuliani administration's Planning Commission chairman, delivered yesterday at City Hall. Speaking to an audience that included planners, urban designers and community activists, Mr. Rose declared, "We are not Colonial Williamsburg, and the world's greatest and most dynamic city should be a hospitable environment for bold new structures." 
 But how is this estimable goal to be attained? Not everyone will be pleased with the answer.
In part, Mr. Rose hopes to discourage remakes of past mistakes by restricting the height of buildings outside of the midtown and downtown business districts. At the same time, he wants to encourage excellence by exempting some buildings from those same limits on height.
"The public process should be able to grant waivers from some regulations on the basis of exceptional design," he stated. "To that end, I am convening an advisory body to help us figure out how we can prudently introduce such values into our zoning."
In a city as economically dependent on real estate development as New York, Mr. Rose's call for height restrictions may be the splashiest of his proposals. In a sense, it may also be the easiest to accomplish. For the city's architectural community, however, his most significant goal was that city government recognize that it has a legitimate role to play in raising the standards of architectural quality in New York. Referring to the stringent laws on landmark preservation now in place, Mr. Rose said, "If we can bend over backward on behalf of great old buildings, I am confident we can figure out how to do so for great new ones, too."
That's the really hard part. Mr. Rose's plan is a welcome opportunity. But given the slim chance of a sudden civic rage for innovative design, can New York seize it?
For it is not a simple matter for any government agency to venture into the murky and subjective realm of esthetic evaluation. Mr. Rose can anticipate challenges to this initiative from the City Council, whose approval is required, and, most likely, from the legal system, in which the debate over landmarks legislation was fought all the way to the United States Supreme Court. He surely will arouse the ire of community boards that have enjoyed considerable power over the design of new buildings.
Not least, Mr. Rose can expect opposition from residents who will undoubtedly question his willingness to override the new zoning regulations on the basis of outstanding design. Who will make the determination that a design is outstanding? What values will be represented by the advisory panel Mr. Rose proposes to create? How can this group gain the trust and respect of communities affected by its decisions?
In addition to proposing an advisory panel on architectural design, Mr. Rose declared his intention to abolish the urban planning model that has governed high-rise development since the adoption in 1961 of the Zoning Resolution.
"The 1961 zoning imposed an esthetic regime of a tower in the park, which has proven to be a fundamentally flawed, anti-urban, and anti-New York concept," he said. "We are going to drive a stake through the heart of tower-in-the-park zoning and its trail of exceptions, caveats, and interpretive gymnastics."
In practice, the revised zoning would limit the transfer of air rights and permission to build "bonus" floors in exchange for the creation of public plazas. Instead, the Department of City Planning will propose a unified set of bulk regulations for middle- to high-density development.
Mr. Rose is not proposing a new architectural esthetic. Rather, he seeks to liquidate two old ones that have persisted past their prime.
The first, the tower-in-the-park concept, originated in the 1920's with the French architect Le Corbusier. At the time, it was a visionary idea for introducing light and open space into congested urban areas, and for preparing the city to cope with the age of the automobile. The concept was taken up after World War II by idealistic American architects, with results that often fell far short of the ideal.
The taste for historical pastiche began in the 1960's in a similarly idealistic spirit. It represented a reaction against the sterility of streets like Avenue of the Americas after they became lined with relatively uniform glass towers in the modernist mode. It was not until the 1980's that this esthetic began to harden into a retrograde and profoundly suburban approach to architecture and urban design. Then, we began to see these tragic remakes of cast iron lampposts, these ersatz 1920's facades pasted over contemporary residential buildings.
The post-modern movement has become an esthetic tyranny: a fear of change. As a result, New York has been deprived of projects like the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, the new Jewish Museum in Berlin, and the Congrexpo conventional hall in Lille, France. These buildings have helped their cities face the future with aplomb.
From an architecture critic's perspective, the big picture is this: Mr. Rose is chief planner of a city where architecture in recent years has become a world-class joke. He spoke for many when he urged, "Instead of cloaking ourselves only in the architectural garb of the 19th and early 20th centuries, we must be able to add to our built environment the best of the early 21st century as well."
Still, if this sentiment is widespread, it has not yet attained the political and social clout that the preservation movement eventually acquired. Many people feel comfortable with buildings that recall the past, not only because of their reassuring familiarity, but because they give communities a sense of control over their surroundings. Others recoil from the new as if it were a form of esthetic terrorism.
New York's civic groups and cultural institutions have done little to whet the public's appetite for architectural innovation. For example, the Municipal Art Society, a group that should have been keeping the city on its architectural toes, has instead contributed to the city's creative torpor. While the city's architecture schools, like those at Columbia University and Cooper Union, have fostered creativity among their students, the schools have shown little initiative in transmitting this spirit outside the classroom, even when it comes to the design of new buildings on their own campuses.
Community groups, and others, may be alarmed by Mr. Rose's linkage between quality and quantity. They are right to be on guard. No one wants to see design used as a rationale for overdevelopment, particularly in a town that has lost its architectural bearings. Still, as Donald Trump's design for a 900-foot skyscraper just north of the United Nations demonstrates, loopholes in the existing regulations already allow developers to pile on bulk. Quantity with quality is a better deal than quantity without.
Mr. Rose has yet to spell out the steps he will take to implement the concept of a design advisory board, or the other proposals outlined in his speech. It's going to be a bumpy ride, but this idea deserves a chance to succeed, and even to fail. It will not be easy to convince people that, even in the subjective realm of taste, it is possible to sort out good ideas from bad ones, or to persuade them that, even when a public agency makes an esthetic fumble, the effort to discriminate is itself worthwhile.
As Alfred North Whitehead put it, "It is the business of the future to be dangerous." Buildings that reflect cultural change can be shocking, but providing such shocks, and provoking public debate over their value, are tasks a vital city should perform.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The World Wide Plaza on Eighth Avenue, built in 1989, is an example of Art Deco pastiche. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: An Appraisal

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ZONING ZONING (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; ROSE, JOSEPH B JOSEPH B ROSE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



460 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

All Major Indexes Rebound A Day After a Big Selloff
Shares of technology companies rebounded in heavy trading after Monday's selloff, and investors were seen moving out of economically sensitive cyclical stocks, like industrial and oil companies, which have been rallying.
The Nasdaq composite index recovered 64.03 points of its 138-point loss on Monday and closed at 2,409.64, up 2.7 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 8.02 points, or one-tenth of a percent, to 10,448.55, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.69 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,306.17. Page C14. 

Browser Rivals Are Joining Forces
Hadi Partovi, the former lead product manager for Microsoft's Internet Explorer, is joining a Silicon Valley software start-up founded by two former enemies from Netscape, Michael McCue and Angus Davis, and backed by Jim Clark, the co-founder of Netscape. C2.
 
Drug Stocks Rally on Good News
A steep selloff in drug stocks halted after three large drug makers reported strong first-quarter earnings and a fourth received a recommendation from a Government panel that a new drug be approved. What surprised analysts was Johnson & Johnson's 12.3 percent gain. The earnings news lifted the shares of many drug companies, with Johnson & Johnson rising $6, to $96.25. C3.
 
Auto Makers Delay New Factories
An opposition Governor in southern Brazil has disrupted plans by General Motors and Ford Motor to build two car factories regarded as prototypes for the future. C6.
 
Profit Rises at Several Banks
Several of the nation's big banks reported gains in earnings. Chase Manhattan said first-quarter net jumped 61 percent, Bank One said profits were up 23 percent, and Wells Fargo reported a 29 percent rise. C3.
 
Despite pressure from shrinking demand for cigarettes and the cost of tobacco-related lawsuit settlements, Philip Morris posted a 1.4 percent increase in first-quarter profit. C8.
 
Several of the nation's largest phone companies -- Sprint, BellSouth, Ameritech and SBC Communications -- reported strong gains in first-quarter earnings. C12.
 
Auditing Board Considers Change
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, which sets the nation's accounting rules, is expected to vote today for strict limits or even a ban on the use of the pooling of interest accounting method, which played a prominent part in many of the largest corporate mergers and acquisitions in recent years. C3.
 
Inquiry Hurt Brazilian Markets
Nervousness over a legislative inquiry into reported irregularities during a Brazilian Government bailout of two investment banks earlier this year unsettled financial markets there. The Bovespa stock index gave up 4 percent before recuperating to close at 10,989.42, down 207.18 points, or 1.85 percent. The bailout was organized by Francisco Lopes, who has since been replaced as head of the central bank and is now a consultant in Rio de Janeiro. C6.
 
Inflation Is Expected to Rise
The rate of inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, is likely to jump this year to more than 2 percent from the 1.6 percent of last year. It could increase even more if oil prices continue to rise, upsetting the stock and bond markets. Market Place. C12.
 
Russia Is Seeking Debt Deal
Russia is holding foreign investors to a deadline of today for agreeing to a plan that restructures $40 billion in defaulted Government debt at a fraction of its face value. C6.
 
Protecting Internet Privacy
The Federal Trade Commission has proposed new rules to protect the privacy interests of children on the Internet. They would require commercial Web sites to get parental consent before seeking information from children younger than 13 and would require the sites to post notifications about what they do with any information obtained from children. A20.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,448.55 up 8.02
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.50% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 118.78 yen up 1.20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); AT&T INC (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ACCOUNTING (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); AUDITS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); APPROVALS (66%); LITIGATION (50%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



461 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Reading, Writing and Runny Noses;
For Those Without Insurance, School Health Clinics Fill In

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
At Intermediate School 218 in Washington Heights, 12-year-old Billy W. Vargas had severe chest pains one morning during class and could not catch his breath. He was having an asthma attack, a nurse determined.
Another student, Eddy Peralta, 14, was having difficulty concentrating in class because he kept having severe headaches and getting dizzy. As it turned out, he needed new glasses. 
 And at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Van Cortlandt Village section of the Bronx, Petra Anderson, 17, had coughing attacks that left her breathless and unable to sit still in class. The diagnosis: she had contracted whooping cough.
But instead of going to a doctor's office for treatment, the three children turned to what is becoming the primary source of health care for an increasing number of children across New York City: school-based health clinics. And the reason is simple: more and more families, even those with working parents, are uninsured and cannot afford any other means of health care, providers say.
Once a place to check a child's temperature, bandage a scraped knee or teach teens about reproductive health, school-based clinics are now being used to treat problems like asthma and whooping cough, and to diagnose conditions like heart murmurs and even cancer.
There are a total of 158 centers in some of the most impoverished neighborhoods throughout the state -- 110 of them in New York City. The typical school clinic today looks like a typical doctor's office and has a professional staff that can diagnose illnesses, prescribe medication and make referrals. Some of the clinics are financed by the state, others by the city and some are set up by not-for-profit organizations. Almost all are affiliated with large hospitals or comprehensive neighborhood health centers.
Doctors and school administrators said that their biggest challenge is not only treating the children, but also educating families about health insurance and, in many instances, finding an insurance package that fits their budget.
"I kept him here until the afternoon because I knew he didn't have insurance," said Abby Kemp, the nurse practitioner at I.S. 218, who treated Billy's asthma attack last week. "I wanted to make sure he was going to be O.K. We don't want him having an attack outside of school and winding up in the hospital, racking up bills his mother cannot pay."
In New York State, about 600,000 children -- more than half of them in New York City -- lack health insurance, child health experts say. But not all of their parents are the poorest of the poor, who tend to be covered by Medicaid, the Government health plan for the indigent. Many are part of a growing number of working New Yorkers who have no health insurance, either because they are not offered it through an employer or cannot afford their contribution. And the numbers continue to grow, experts said, as the price of insurance rises and as more people move from welfare to jobs with few benefits.
"The centers are a safety net for lots of parents," said Lisa Keegan, who works at Mount Sinai Medical Center's Adolescent Health Center, which, along with the Children's Aid Society, runs the clinic at I.S. 218. "We don't turn people away based on their ability to pay. The clinics are also helpful for working parents, who don't have to leave work just so their child can go to the doctors. And it's a major aid for educators. We can work with them and send them back to class ready to learn."
Dignora Calderon, 42, a homemaker and the single mother of Eddy and Melissa Peralta, said that the clinic helped her navigate the Medicaid bureaucracy. When Eddy, a jaunty eighth grader with wavy moussed hair, broke the lenses of his glasses, Mrs. Calderon said she was at a loss about what to do because she could not afford new glasses and had no insurance that would pay for them. So Eddy went without them for months.
But when Eddy's headaches finally sent him to the school clinic, the nurse talked to Mrs. Calderon and helped her apply for Medicaid.
Using state, Federal and private dollars, school-based health clinics began opening in New York almost two decades ago as part of a state initiative to improve primary and preventive health care for poor children, said Claire Pospisil, a spokeswoman for the State Health Department.
In the early 1990's, based on the success of the first clinics, the state increased the number of centers and the breadth of service by raising the amount of money the centers could receive from direct Medicaid reimbursements.
"There is a huge group of children with unmet health needs," said Dr. David K. Appel, the director of Montefiore Medical Center's 11 school-based clinics, including the one at DeWitt Clinton High School. "When the state created the opportunity to open more places, institutions responded by opening more clinics. The communities responded by using them very heavily and came to depend on them as a primary source of care."
 
Medicaid Changes Leave Questions
But even the clinics are not free from the convulsing health care industry, which over the last few years has endured a drop in reimbursement rates from public and private insurance, spurred largely by the growth of managed care. To try to save money, the State Health Department last year placed a moratorium on the opening of new school-based health centers after deciding to phase out direct Medicaid reimbursements to school clinics and steer patients to health maintenance organizations beginning April 2000.
Under that program, known as Medicaid managed care, school-based health centers could receive reimbursements from managed care companies. Two issues remain unclear, however: under what circumstances the clinics will be reimbursed, and what the reimbursement rates will be.
Currently, Medicaid pays up to $90 for each visit to the clinics. To save money, the Government plans to pay managed care companies a set fee that covers all of a Medicaid enrollee's health costs. The cost-saving of that system could be undermined, some might argue, if the state also has to pay for a child's visit the school clinic. And school clinic directors are nervous because managed care companies have been reluctant to commit to reimbursing school doctors from their fees, said Dr. Appel, who also heads a coalition of school-based health clinic providers around the state.
"Families tend not to sign up with us as their primary care physicians because they can come to us regardless of coverage," Dr. Appel said. "We are very concerned."
For her part, Wanda Vargas is grateful. With the clinic at I.S. 218, she was able to avoid an expensive emergency room visit for Billy, a round-faced sixth grader. A resident of Washington Heights, which has a high asthma rate, Ms. Vargas had heard about the clinic through friends.
Ms. Vargas, 36, an unemployed beauty technician, lost her Medicaid benefits when she moved to Washington Heights from Providence, R.I. two months ago. After 13 years in New York City, she had moved to Providence last year in hopes of building a better life for her and her two sons, Billy and Wander, 9. But it was hard to make ends meet there, she said.
Ms. Kemp, the nurse practitioner, urged Ms. Vargas to come to the clinic so the staff could help her complete a New York State Medicaid application. Ms. Kemp said that in general, primary care is a major component of the clinic because the school has a large population of children from the Dominican Republic who have never seen a doctor and whose parents are often poorly educated about detecting signs of health problems. "A lot of them would have nothing if we weren't here," Ms. Kemp said.
 
A Catch-All For Students' Health
The clinic, formally known as the Salome Urena Health Center, opened seven years ago on the first floor of I.S. 218, a gleaming two-story, red and beige brick building in Washington Heights, one of the poorest, most violent communities in Manhattan. In addition to medical care, the clinic provides dental and mental health services.
The four-room office suite used to be a storage room. Now it bustles with activity. One recent afternoon, with the sound of a dentist's drill piercing the air, three teen-age girls comforted one another as they waited to see the nurse for stomachaches. Another boy held an ice pack to his nose after hurting it in gym class. All of them planned to return to class after their visits, they said.
Mount Sinai Medical Center, which runs the clinic along with nine others, and saw a total of 32,104 students at those centers last year, has seen a 10 percent drop in Medicaid enrollment among its families since 1996, said Dr. Doris Pastore, the director of the hospital's school based health center program.
"Many of these families are costing out of Medicaid, but earn too little to afford Child Health Plus," Dr. Pastore said. New York's Child Health Plus program for children under 19 is subsidized by the Federal Government and is geared toward families of three with an income under $31,980 a year. It costs about $27 a month.
The results of being caught in the insurance limbo are often severe, experts say. Two years ago, Elaine Dinkins-Anderson ignored her teen-age daughter's persistent cough for as long as she could, telling herself that a doctor's visit was too expensive and that the cough would go away. The family lost its health insurance when her husband retired as a stockman with the New York City Transit Authority, and the four children, Petra, Paige, 18, William, 16, and Pearl, 21, were dropped from his insurance plan.
But after the cough persisted for a month, she decided to try the full-service health clinic at her daughter's school, DeWitt Clinton High School. There, Petra, now a senior, was found to have whooping cough, which is characterized by attacks of coughing that end in gasps, but is easily treated with antibiotics. The cough would have lingered had it not been treated.
Besides treating Petra, Dr. Appel helped Mrs. Dinkins-Anderson apply for insurance through Child Health Plus.
"Fortunate for us, the clinic was there," Mrs. Dinkins-Anderson recalled. "Petra was a sophomore, so we weren't that familiar with the clinic. Now, I swear by it even though we now have our own insurance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, 12-year-old Billy Vargas was treated for asthma by Abby Kemp at I.S. 218. Left, Dr. David K. Appel examining Petra Anderson, 17, at DeWitt Clinton High School. (Angel Franco/The New York Times, above; Suzanne De Chillo for The New York Times, below)(pg. B1); After Eddy Peralta went to the clinic at I.S. 218 because of headaches, the nurse helped his mother, Dignora Calderon, apply for Medicaid. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 218 (87%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); WHOOPING COUGH (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ASTHMA (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (88%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (88%); FAMILY (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); PARENTING (75%); PEDIATRICS (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); MEDICAID (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



462 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Unions Tell Mayor They'll Want More

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
New York City's municipal unions warned Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday that they planned to take a hard line in coming contract negotiations and they called on him to set aside $1 billion a year to pay for future wage increases.
Labor leaders said the city's workers made a significant sacrifice by taking a two-year pay freeze in their current contract. Now, they said, the workers deserve a sizable raise since the city's economy is booming and the Giuliani administration is enjoying a budget surplus. 
 "Our city's workers have given plenty," said Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers and chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Coalition, which represents 100 municipal unions. "Time and time again they've been partners in peril. So isn't it only fair that they now be partners in prosperity?"
In a speech given to the union coalition, which represents 300,000 municipal workers, Ms. Weingarten said many city employees were angry that their wages have barely kept up with inflation while Wall Street is at record highs, the real estate market is booming and the city's restaurant and party scene are flourishing.
"Considering the unabashed celebration going on around them, city workers will remember the 90's as the everybody-but-me decade," she said.
But Randy L. Levine, Deputy Mayor for Economic Development, said the city would not give its workers sizable raises unless the unions gave something back in return.
"If they want more money, we're prepared to discuss it as long as they tell us that they're going to provide a lot more work for that money," Mr. Levine said.
In her speech, Ms. Weingarten took a tougher tone than municipal union leaders did before the last round of contract negotiations four years ago, when the union coalition and its former chairman, Stanley Hill, were cowed into submission by Mr. Giuliani's warnings of layoffs.
For most city workers, their current, five-year, contract included a three-year no-layoff clause and a two-year wage freeze followed by a raise of almost 13 percent over the contract's last three years. Different unions have their contracts expire at different times next year.
Ms. Weingarten, in her speech at the Sheraton New York Hotel, maintained that the salaries of city workers are so low that many of them have a hard time making ends meet. It was a theme echoed by several labor leaders at a subsequent news conference.They also said that many talented teachers and police officers were leaving for the suburbs where their jobs are higher paid.
Mr. Weingarten interrupted her speech to have several city workers stand up to hammer her point home. There was Miriam Mandelbaum, a rare-books expert at the New York City Public Library who earns $36,000 after 14 years on the job. And there was Daniel Perez, an intermediate school teacher in Queens who after five years on the job is leaving his $35,000 post for a $44,000 teaching job on Long Island.
Ms. Weingarten said she expected Mayor Giuliani to assert that the financial cupboard is bare and that the city could therefore not afford large salary increases. But she contended that the city does have the money in its budget, and she urged that it set aside $1 billion a year for wage increases in the future.
City Hall officials voiced discomfort with Ms. Weingarten's proposal for a labor reserve fund, even though the idea is supported by the City Comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, as prudent budget planning to finance future wage increases. Some city officials fear that union leaders will seize on any labor reserve fund as a minimum financial pool that they can build on to win increases above and beyond what is in the pool.
"We negotiate from ground zero," Mr. Levine said. "We don't negotiate you put X dollars in as a freebie and you negotiate from there."
With most municipal labor contracts expiring next year, Ms. Weingarten warned that unions would mount considerably more pressure than before -- they already have scheduled a demonstration on May 12 to protest the Mayor's budget. And she highlighted another tactic: municipal unions will seek to line up support from parent groups, business groups and private-sector unions to press City Hall to come up with more money for higher wages.
Lee Saunders, the trustee who replaced Mr. Hill as head of District Council 37, the giant union representing 120,000 workers, took a much sharper tone than Mr. Hill. Mr. Saunders complained that Mr. Giuliani, in his State of the City speech, never thanked city workers for all the work they have done and the sacrifices they have made.
But Mr. Levine asserted that Mr. Giuliani has been very fair with labor. "We negotiated very fair agreements, and the unions were partners with us," he said. "The unions helped provide concessions and savings for the city, but they managed to protect their jobs. This Mayor is never going to get back to the earlier days when in effect the city gave away the store to the unions and didn't receive anything in return." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUBURBS (73%); RESTAURANTS (66%); LIBRARIES (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (52%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



463 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Prayers for a Scarred City
About 1,500 people gathered at the call of Cardinal O'Connor for a prayer service to help ease tensions in the wake of the Diallo case. Page B1. 

Trade Deficit Hits Record
The strength of the United States economy pushed the nation's trade deficit to a monthly high. Page C1.
 
Arizona Drug Program
Treating rather than imprisoning nonviolent offenders has saved $2.5 million, a report says. Page A14. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (84%); 

PERSON: CARDINAL JOHN O'CONNOR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



464 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Private School Choice Plan Draws a Million Aid-Seekers

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
A billionaire Wall Street financier who raised $170 million in scholarships to send low-income children to private schools said yesterday that more than a million families had responded to his offer, or nearly one out of every 50 schoolchildren in America.
The financier, Theodore J. Forstmann, better known for his leveraged buyouts of companies like Gulfstream Aerospace, Dr. Pepper and General Instruments, said he had turned his business savvy to helping thousands of children escape failing public schools and go to private and religious schools. But the response to his offer surprised even him, he said, and it has added fuel to the debate over efforts to use taxpayer money to send children to private schools. 
 Although the scholarships were open to students now enrolled in either public or private schools, the vast majority of applicants came from public schools, indicating a deep dissatisfaction among parents with the education their children are getting, Mr. Forstmann said. The 40,000 winners, chosen over the last few days by a computerized lottery, are to be announced today at simultaneous ceremonies in New York and Los Angeles.
In capturing public attention for his cause, Mr. Forstmann was armed with an obvious fervor, immense wealth, and a well-oiled public relations machine that generated public service announcements by the baseball star Sammy Sosa, the poet Maya Angelou and the actor Will Smith. In February, Mr. Forstmann benefited from a dollop of Oprah Winfrey, who instructed viewers to turn off their vacuum cleaners while she interviewed him. A Republican, Mr. Forstmann assembled a board of public figures in both parties, from Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, to Gen. Colin L. Powell, a Republican.
Mr. Forstmann said the number of applicants -- 1,237,360, including nearly one out of three qualified students in New York City, Newark, New Orleans, Philadelphia and Washington -- was even more compelling given that the scholarships will amount to only $600 to $1,600 a year for four years, not enough to cover even the $2,500 tuition at most parochial schools, and that the winners will be required to make a matching contribution from their own pockets averaging $1,000 a year.
He called the response "a cry from the heart." Noting that the applicants were, in effect, turning down a free education from the government, he added, "So they're quite impoverished, they get their product for nothing and they're lining up around the corner to pay $1,000."
But critics said that Mr. Forstmann is more interested in undermining public schools, building enrollment in financially troubled parochial schools and advancing a crusade to obtain public financing of religious and secular private schools than in improving education for the poor. The very poorest and most troubled children cannot afford the program, they said, and schools are free to reject those they do not want.
But by mobilizing the public behind their scholarship plan, Mr. Forstmann and his associates could become a powerful tool in pushing state legislatures toward the adoption of taxpayer financing of vouchers to send children to private and religious schools. Mr. Forstmann, who is Roman Catholic, denied that he has any interest in pursuing vouchers. He has supported Catholic-school scholarships in the past, and critics of voucher proposals noted yesterday that his partner, John Walton, owns stock in a profit-making corporation, Tesseract Group, that manages charter schools.
"It's clearly become a stalking horse for vouchers," Sandra Feldman, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said yesterday. "Raising money for private and parochial schools is a longtime tradition in the U.S. But now you've got people telling parents over and over again that their kids can do better than what they do now. It's all over television; it's on Oprah. When you listen carefully there's something going on about getting kids out of the public schools, and that's terribly unfortunate."
But even the opposition acknowledges that Mr. Forstmann has elevated the debate over whether the public schools are fulfilling their mission of providing an equal education to all, especially black, Hispanic and immigrant children in the inner city as well as children in rural areas. Using an idea that would warm the heart of a free-market economist -- leveraging scholarships to help thousands of children seek a better education -- Mr. Forstmann has tapped into the deepest fears and hopes of parents about the future of their children.
Most of the applicants came from New York City, the nation's largest school system, where 168,184 students applied, or 29 percent of the 587,092 public and private school student who met the eligibility guidelines. Students were eligible, officials said, if their family income was just above the cutoff for the Federal reduced-price lunch program, a measure of poverty. (Parents could apply through the mail, E-mail or a toll-free telephone number.)
Chicago had the next highest number, with 59,186 applicants, or 26 percent of those eligible, Los Angeles had 54,444 applicants, or 18 percent. In Baltimore, 44 percent, or 46,011, of those eligible applied, the highest precentage in the country.
Winners were notified this week. The largest number of scholarships, 3,750, will be awarded in Los Angeles; New York and Chicago will get 2,500 each and other cities will get hundreds. The numbers reflect the amount of money donated to the program from each of those cities.
"I think at some point the public schools start to fail our children, and I think the third grade is that cutoff," said Shelitha Harrelson, a New Yorker whose daughter, Brittney Tucker, was told this week that she is one of the 40,000 winners.
Ms. Harrelson, whose name was provided by the fund, has a daughter in third grade at P.S. 279 in Canarsie, Brooklyn. She said she hoped to use her stipend to help pay the costs at Marymount, a Manhattan private school where she said tuition is $12,000 a year, or Epiphany, another school, where she said it would cost $4,000. Ms. Harrelson, an administrative coordinator at Polo Ralph Lauren and a single mother, met the income criterion of $29,295 for a family of two.
New York City's Schools Chancellor, Rudy Crew, who threatened to resign last month when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani began lobbying for a government-financed voucher program, said he did not oppose the fund, as long as it used private money. "I have never claimed the public school system is a perfect system," he said. "I think this is only natural; it's going to happen. It is a sign that there are people who want choice."
Dr. Crew said he was trying to meet that demand as well with a push to create charter schools independent of the Board of Education and some union rules.
In Chicago, Paul Vallas, the chief executive of the public schools, said: "I'm all for it. Here you have people from the private sector pooling their money to help make a child's education better. How can you be against that?"
At today's ceremonies, Mr. Forstmann, Mr. Walton and Andrew Young, the civil rights leader and former ambassador to the United Nations, are to preside in New York, at the main public library, while Michael S. Ovitz, the former president of Walt Disney, Ronald W. Burkle, managing partner of the Yucaipa Companies, and Eli Broad, chairman and chief executive of Sun America Inc., are to announce the winners in Los Angeles.
Mr. Forstmann and Mr. Walton started the program, called the Children's Scholarship Fund, eight months ago by contributing $50 million each, and said they have since raised an additional $70 million from other donors around the country.
The program is the largest privately financed scholarship program in the country, Mr. Forstmann and his associates said, and also dwarfs experiments with taxpayer-financed voucher programs to send poor children to private schools in Milwaukee and Cleveland. Neither Milwaukee nor Cleveland are among the cities receiving scholarships, according to a list released yesterday.
Several members of the fund's national board of advisers, including Senator Moynihan and Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, said they had signed on to the program because they saw it as a chance for children to attend better schools than the ones they were in, not as an attack on the public-school system.
"I'm against vouchers," Mr. Rangel said.
"I support scholarships for public schools, private schools, and any other kind of schools."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Theodore J. Forstmann, the Wall Street financier, will award scholarships to 40,000 pupils. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 279 SENIOR CITIZENS' FREEDOM TO WORK ACT OF 1999 (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS PRIVATE SCHOOLS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RELIGION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (66%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (57%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (57%); 

PERSON: FORSTMANN, THEODORE J; HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA THEODORE FORSTMANN (90%); WILL SMITH (50%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



465 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
SERBS REPORTED TO PUSH ALBANIANS FROM 2D REPUBLIC

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
NATO and Pentagon officials said today that Serbian forces had begun driving ethnic Albanians from Montenegro, signaling a widening of the Balkan conflict.
The Serbs' actions appeared to be focused on Albanians who had fled to Montenegro. Serbia and Montenegro form what remains of the former Yugoslav federation. 
 But initial reports were sketchy and could not be confirmed on the ground, or by other agencies monitoring developments in Yugoslavia.
Describing the reports at his briefing in Brussels, NATO's civilian spokesman, Jamie P. Shea, said: "This is something rather new and distressful if this pattern is now spilling over elsewhere into Yugoslavia. It can only exacerbate the problem, which is already, as you know, of alarming proportions."
The Pentagon spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said NATO officials had evidence suggesting for the first time that troops in Montenegro are driving out Albanian refugees who had escaped from the Serbian campaign in Kosovo. Neither he nor Mr. Shea indicated where the new refugees may be going.
Late tonight, NATO conducted its first air strike against Serbian television and radio stations, knocking several of them off the air. The building that was attacked by cruise missile, across from downtown Belgrade, also contained offices of two political parties linked to President Slobodan Milosevic. Page A11.
 Allied officials also reported that NATO warplanes had flown 603 missions in the 24 hours through this morning, the highest number in the four-week bombardment.
Military officials said the planes had attacked ammunition depots, an ammunition plant near Belgrade, tanks, trucks and a high-level command post. For the first time, NATO said it had destroyed a support site for Yugoslav Frog surface-to-surface missiles, which have a range of 40 miles.
Mr. Shea assailed Yugoslav authorities with the most grisly list of reported executions, rapes and mass graves in Yugoslavia that the alliance has issued so far. Among other horrors, Mr. Shea said Serbs had taken about 700 Albanian youths, some as young as 14, "either to use as human shields or as blood banks for Serb casualties."
American and other allied officials have watched with growing alarm as tensions intensify between Montenegro and the federal government in Belgrade. Montenegro, a poor mountainous region with a population of 640,000, has been trying to forge economic ties with the West.
The Montenegrin government no longer recognizes the legality of Mr. Milosevic's Government. Montenegro's special forces have fought with Yugoslav Interior Ministry troops, and there have been reports that Serbs shelled refugee camps just inside Montenegro, where about 73,500 Kosovars have sought refuge.
American intelligence has reported other signs of a potential widening of the war. For example, the Montenegrin government has approached Croatia to buy anti-armor weapons and 2,000 sets of fatigues for its security forces to distinguish them from the Yugoslav military police.
Croatia, once also part of Yugoslavia, has cooperated with NATO by closing down an oil pipeline into Yugoslavia on March 28.
There have also been American intelligence reports that senior Montenegrin officials find the allied raids counterproductive because they are galvanizing nationalistic fervor in Serbia, which in turn puts more pressure on Montenegro.
On another front, Romania gave approval today for NATO to cross its airspace. The decision will be put to the Parliament for a vote. Bulgaria has already agreed to allow overflights, though no plans have been announced yet to use those corridors.
And the first of 24 United States Army Apache helicopters remained grounded in Italy today, awaiting clearer weather in Albania so the aircraft and their supporting units can fly into makeshift, mud-clogged landing areas there. Maj. Gen. Charles Wald, a senior officer on the Joint Staff, said the first Apaches should arrive in Tirana, Albania, on Wednesday, barring more rain, and the remainder on Thursday.
The Pentagon is still considering how to meet a request from Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the NATO military commander, for 300 more American warplanes and support aircraft. Military officials have not decided whether to divert the carrier Enterprise and its 70 aircraft to the Aegean and break a near-ironclad policy of keeping sailors and pilots at sea no longer than six months at a time.
The Enterprise is sailing through Suez today and is expected to be in the Mediterranean by early Wednesday. The Navy Secretary, Richard Danzig, and Adm. Jay Johnson, the Chief of Naval Operations, are opposed to extending the Enterprise's tour. The carrier Theodore Roosevelt is now in the Adriatic.
Even as military officials said the air war is grinding down Belgrade's ability to rearm and resupply its 40,000 troops in Kosovo, NATO officials in Brussels described in gruesome detail the atrocities reported from the besieged province.
Mr. Shea said more than 3,500 ethnic Albanians had been executed as part of a strategy by President Milosevic to keep NATO off balance by developing a "surge capability that he can sort of switch on and off as he desires whenever he wants to start a new flood of refugees."
Reports from Kosovar refugees that Mr. Shea emphasized today included the following:
*Near Orahovac, as many as 700 Albanian men were used as human shields last week. The men were forced to stand in front of tanks in the rain for two days with their hands tied behind their heads. A few eventually escaped by paying the soldiers 10,000 German marks, about $5,400.
*In Pec, Serbian forces had rounded up young Albanian women and taken them to a hotel where the local Yugoslav commander apparently has organized a roster of his soldiers to allow them all an evening at the hotel with the women.
*During Serbian raids in some villages, young women have been gang-raped in the homes or on the roadside by soldiers.
"All of this will have to be investigated," Mr. Shea said. "But the reports are too numerous to suggest that these are completely without foundation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Yugoslavia highlighting Montenegro: Montenegro, one of the two republics in Yugoslavia, resists federal rule. (pg. A11)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); CROATIA (92%); BELGIUM (59%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MONTENEGRO; MONTENEGRO (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); CROATIA (92%); BELGIUM (59%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SEX CRIMES; MISSILES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); MOUNTAINS (86%); BOMBINGS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); POLITICS (66%); BLOOD BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



466 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE RECONSTRUCTION;
Allies Seek a Way to Promote Prosperity in Restive Balkans

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The Western military alliance has begun promoting the idea of a sweeping reconstruction of the Balkans, even as it destroys refineries, bridges, roads and buildings in Yugoslavia.
Though the idea is still vague, the Clinton Administration hopes that the NATO summit meeting in Washington this weekend will produce a framework for the project, which would cover all the countries of the Balkans, the poorest part of Europe. Administration officials insist that carrying out any plan, especially in the countries surrounding Yugoslavia, would not hinge on a resolution of the Kosovo conflict or the ouster of Mr. Milosevic. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said today that millions of people in the Balkans are depending on an economic rescue and could not be "held hostage" by the fate of one man. 
 The Clinton Administration has not begun to define the scale of such a project or to focus on the nuts and bolts of how much it would cost, which countries would participate and what the precise goals would be. But the theme of such a reconstruction plan is as important as the details in that it signals to supporters of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia that international pressure will be brought to bear on the region to promote economic cooperation and that Yugoslavia's future lies with its integration into Europe.
Various European nations have talked of rebuilding the Balkans off and on over the last few years, with little to show for it. With the war in Kosovo now ruining the province's capacities for production and its transportation system and accelerating the mass exodus of its population into already distressed neighboring countries, the alliance says it is more determined to seek a broad-scale solution.
President Clinton, who discussed the rebuilding of the Balkans privately with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain two weeks ago, first publicly raised the notion of American participation last week.
"We should try to do for Southeastern Europe what we helped to do for Western Europe after World War II and for Central Europe after the cold war," he said in a speech in San Francisco.
Mr. Clinton has been careful to avoid describing the rebuilding as a modern-day Marshall Plan, which invites comparison with one of the most comprehensive -- and most expensive -- peacetime initiatives in world history. Over four years, 16 countries rebuilt a Europe devastated by World War II in an attempt to halt starvation, prevent the spread of Communism, and stabilize the international order to promote free markets. The plan, to which Washington contributed $13 billion starting in 1948, laid the foundation for NATO.
But officials said the Clinton Administration and the European Union are nonetheless striving for a thematic vision comparable to that of the Marshall Plan to signal the West's intentions to bring long-term stability to the region.
Strobe Talbott, Deputy Secretary of State, said that to achieve stability the alliance would need to bolster the countries of Albania, Bosnia, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and Macedonia.
How much rebuilding of Serbia would be undertaken and when it might begin are major questions that the alliance has yet to address.
The still-sketchy plan has evolved from notions of tinkering with ways to promote trade within the Balkans to a more expansive economic program that would offer technical and development assistance to the neighboring countries, compensate them for losses in trade and help them pay off their debts.
Officials hope any economic program would involve institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as well NATO members. Some analysts said it could be patterned on the $5-billion, four-year plan to help rebuild Bosnia in which several nations are participating.
Ms. Albright said that the plan had emerged from discussions among European allies and that the allies expected to delve into the subject when leaders of the 19 NATO countries gather here later this week.
"Our explicit goal," she said, "should be to transform the Balkans from Europe's primary source of instability into an important part of its mainstream. And we must work to insure that NATO forces will not again be called on to fight terror and destruction in this corner of the continent."
President Clinton briefly mentioned the NATO gathering at a White House ceremony at which he presented the Medal of Freedom to Helmut Kohl, the former Chancellor of Germany.
He said the crisis was evidence of a need to project Western power and values into eastern and southern Europe. "We can and must remain willing to act," Mr. Clinton said, "because the work of building a new world never ends."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madeleine K. Albright at hearings in Washington yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BALKAN STATES; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); HISTORY (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



467 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Serb Forces Said to Widen Drive to Expel Albanians
NATO and Pentagon officials said Serbian forces had begun expelling ethnic Albanians from villages in Montenegro, possibly signaling a widening of the Yugoslav conflict. But some American officials who monitor the situation say they cannot substantiate the reports. A1 

The military alliance is promoting the idea of a sweeping reconstruction of the Balkans, and the Clinton Administration hopes a weekend NATO meeting in Washington will produce the project's framework. A12
 
Hundreds of paratroopers from the 82d Airborne Division began arriving at the airport in Tirana, Albania. Their mission is to guard Apache helicopters, which have not yet arrived. A11
 
NATO conducted its first air strikes against Serbian television and radio stations this morning, firing three cruise missiles at a 20-story office building and putting three channels off the air. A11
 
Kosovo Update A11
 
U.S. Report on China Spying
A comprehensive analysis by intelligence officials concluded that China stole design information on America's most advanced nuclear warhead from a Government nuclear weapons laboratory, officials said. A1
 
Holbrooke Faces New Inquiry
The State Department's Inspector General opened an investigation of Richard C. Holbrooke, President Clinton's nominee to be chief American diplomat to the United Nations. The inquiry is examining payments for speeches he made about the Balkans while he was a special envoy to the region. A6
 
Seeking Justice in Rwanda
The Government of Rwanda is proposing a process for the judging of 125,000 people, almost all Hutu, who are still in jail and accused of massacres and other crimes during the mass killings of 500,000 or more people, mostly Tutsi, in 1994. A3
 
Pressure to Resign in Turkey
Several of Turkey's veteran political leaders are under growing pressure to resign after poor showings in the national election on Sunday. A6
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-20
 
Gunmen Enter School And Kill More Than 20
Two young men carrying guns and explosives stormed into a high school in Littleton, Colo., and killed as many as 23 people and wounded at least 20 others, the authorities said. Officials said the two suspects were found dead after a six-hour siege. It was the deadliest school massacre in the nation's history. A1
 
U.S. Indictment in Church Fires
Jay Scott Ballinger, a drifter with a history of dabbling in satanic rituals, was charged with setting 10 church fires in Indiana and Georgia, including one that killed a firefighter. A14
 
On Treatment vs. Prison
A report by the Arizona Supreme Court said a new policy of diverting addicts from prison to treatment had saved the state $2.5 million. A14
 
Rules on Children and the Net
The Federal Government proposed new rules to protect the privacy interests of children on the Internet. Commercial Web sites would have to get parental consent before seeking information from children under 13 and would have to post notifications about what they do with any information obtained from children. A20
 
Race as a Campaign Issue
Bill Bradley said the "quest for racial unity" would be a central pillar of his White House if he were elected President. He called racism the "defining moral issue of our time" and pledged to raise the subject as he seeks the Democratic nomination. A20
 
Medicare and Prescriptions
Congressional Democrats began an effort to obtain Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, one of the biggest expenses for millions of elderly people. Republicans agreed that many elderly people needed help with drug bills, but said the Democratic plan might prove very expensive. A20
 
Testing States' Immunity
The Supreme Court heard arguments in two cases on whether states can be forced into Federal court to defend their business practices. A20
 
Harvard-Radcliffe Merger
Radcliffe College agreed to be fully absorbed into Harvard University, after more than 100 years of arm's-length interaction between the his-and-hers institutions. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
New Jersey Officials Admit Cases of 'Racial Profiling'
Governor Whitman and the New Jersey Attorney General conceded for the first time that some state troopers singled out black and Hispanic motorists, and that once pulled over, they were more than three times as likely as whites to be searched. A1
 
A Million Seek a Scholarship
Theodore J. Forstmann, a billionaire financier who raised $170 million in scholarships to send low-income children to private schools, said more than a million families had responded, or nearly one in 50 schoolchildren in America. The 40,000 winners are to be announced today. A1
 
Healing the Spirit
An interfaith service on race at St. Patrick's Cathedral brought Mayor Giuliani and the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, who called the Mayor a racist a year ago, to a cordial embrace. B1
 
EDUCATION B10
 
Rise in College Faculty Pay
Faculty pay at the nation's colleges and universities increased by 2 percent for the 1998-99 academic year, after adjusting for inflation, a survey found. Male professors continued to be paid more than female professors. A chart tells the story. B10
 
ARTS E1-12
 
$250,000 to Uruguayan Writer
The Lannan Foundation of Santa Fe, N.M., will give its first $250,000 Prize for Cultural Freedom to the Uruguayan writer Eduardo Galeano. The foundation will also donate $100,000 to three charities of Mr. Galeano's choosing. E1
 
SPORTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES A21
 
Wenceslao Moreno
The ventriloquist who, as Senor Wences, transformed his hand into a convincing character that endeared itself to millions of television viewers in the 1950's and 60's was 103. A21
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
Trade Deficit Hits New High
The nation's trade deficit jumped unexpectedly to previously unheard of levels in February, to $19.4 billion, or $2.6 billion more than the January deficit of $16.8 billion. C1
 
Telecommunications Merger
Telecom Italia and Deutsche Telekom tentatively agreed to form the world's largest telecommunications provider. They said a final deal required assurances that the German Government would abdicate voting rights in the combined company. C1
 
Microsoft Earnings Rise
Microsoft reported third-quarter earnings that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, but it renewed warnings that growth could slow if companies deferred technology purchases because of the year 2000 problem. C1
 
Boeing Loses Sale to Airbus
New Air, which plans to offer low-fare service from New York next year, will buy narrow-body jets made by Airbus Industrie, a blow to Boeing's competing 737 jet. C1
 
Technology Stocks Come Back
The Nasdaq, which is laden with technology issues, recovered 64.03 points of its 138-point loss on Monday to close at 2,409.64, up 2.7 percent. The Dow edged up 8.02 points, to 10,448.55, and the S.& P. 500 was up 16.02 points, to 1,306.17. C14
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Paying for Kosovo; gun spree at Columbine High; the Met's Greek galleries; Gail Collins on the New York Senate race.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E11
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); ALBANIA (95%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); TURKEY (92%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); ALBANIA (95%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTENEGRO (92%); TURKEY (92%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRISONS (89%); ARSON (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); ELECTIONS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (60%); HISTORY (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999



468 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 7; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: PC vs. iMac: The Grass Is Always Greener Across the Divide

BYLINE: By JOE HUTSKO; Joe Hutsko is a writer and computer consultant in New York. His novel, "The Deal" (Forge, 1999), is available for Palm Pilot at www.peanutpress.com. Macintosh users may scold him at jhutsko@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I'M conflicted. The iMac is a sensation, with more than a million units sold since its release last August. And like a lot of former Mac users who had made the switch to a Windows 98 PC, I have found myself drawn, even taunted by the iMac's cool esthetic. It has conjured up that old Apple magic for me, that self-righteous promise of a better-built mousetrap that not only compelled me to use Apple computers once but also prompted me to move west and go to work for the company.
I bought an iMac the day it went on sale and yet, as I revise this article on a Windows 98 personal computer, I wonder if that magic is enough to pull me back for good. 
 I was bitten by the Apple bug early. I picked strawberries on a farm as a 16-year-old to bankroll my first Apple, a IIe. But the Macintosh was different. I decided after seeing the famous "1984" Macintosh commercial during the Super Bowl that I wanted a Mac, but I couldn't afford one.
At the time, I was 20 and working as a computer trainer for the Harrah's casino in Atlantic City. The Mac was a foreign language in the casino business. I had read somewhere that Apple had given a Mac to every new employee so I called the company and asked for a job. I was invited to drop by if I was ever in the neighborhood. I called my boss at the casino and asked if he wanted to buy my new Compaq PC. He said yes, and that he would pay me on Monday. Floating myself the cash, I wrote a technically bad check and took the first flight out on Friday.
By the end of the day, I had landed a job in the information services department at Apple. A few months later, I was introduced to John Sculley, then the chairman of Apple. He had heard about my enthusiasm for the Mac and my flight west. He was looking for a technical assistant to teach him how to use the Mac and keep him tuned in to exciting developments in the Mac world. My job was to eat, sleep and breathe Macintosh. It was a dream job, and I stayed with it for nearly four years.
But somewhere in there, I had got it into my head that I wanted to be a novelist. So I quit Apple, and after a few false starts, I followed the advice many successful novelists give to aspiring authors: write what you know about. I started writing about Silicon Valley. And I started going broke.
Around this time Windows was really taking off. Tons of games were being written for the PC, but not so many for the Mac. I faced a difficult decision: PC or Mac? The PC won out, for purely economic reasons. I reviewed PC games to pay the rent. I wrote PC and video game strategy guides. At the same time, I wrote and rewrote my novel.
It has been a decade since I left Apple. My novel was published recently and is getting fair reviews. I bought myself a new Sony Vaio PC that ran Windows 98 and was decked out with the fastest processor, tons of memory and a powerful 3-D card that makes the latest games look great and run smoothly. This should be the happiest time of my life.
But it's not, and I blame the iMac. My attraction to the "VW Bug of computers" is rooted in feelings of sensuality and sentiment. As a computer, it could be frustrating, at least when it first came out. With no floppy drive or Zip drive connection, I couldn't easily transfer my few novels and other writings. With no viable all-in-one personal information manager, like Microsoft's Outlook 98 for Windows, I couldn't easily move over my E-mail, contacts, schedule and task and notes information that Outlook handles so skillfully on my PC.
Still, my new iMac looked great, and I was enormously pleased with how Apple's operating system upgrade, System 8.5, smoothed the appearance of the type on the screen. The Mac's windows are prettier than Windows' windows.
So I went ahead and laboriously sent myself all my files via E-mail, figuring that I would survive with my Palm Pilot as my personal information manager until the iMac could handle that function (which took months). Furthermore, I couldn't use my Hewlett-Packard Laserjet 6 printer; the only choices for iMac were ink-jet printers, which are not ideal for printing 300-page manuscripts. I mentioned to my friends that despite these inconveniences, I was switching back to Mac. They called me crazy.
Then something happened. Software and hardware makers started to become excited about providing products for the iMac. Imation began selling a Superdisk floppy drive that also doubles as back-up storage because it handles both regular and high-density disks. Iomega came out with a Zip drive that works with both PC's and iMacs. Palm Computing began giving away a clever contact manager that runs on Macs. Logitech released the Quickcam Pro, a digital video camera that works with PC's and iMacs. Infowave started selling an adapter that makes almost any PC printer work with the iMac.
Connectix's Virtual PC can, in a pinch, run Windows 98 on the iMac so I can connect my Hewlett-Packard Jornada handheld computer, which I use for writing and the Internet when I visit my family for the weekend. But I missed my PC's wheel mouse: the iMac's mouse turns into a slippery puck during pointing and clicking. Yetthat complaint was only a temporary one: Logitech has just started offering a Universal Serial Bus wheel mouse for iMacs. All should have been right in my iMac world.
But it wasn't. I began to miss my PC. I missed the nearly perfect Outlook 98; I even begged Microsoft to create a Mac version. I missed being able to play the hottest games. I missed the quicker response the PC with Windows always seems to have (my Mac friends actually complain that "it's too fast"). I especially missed the always handy right mouse button that speeds up everyday tasks. And there is more for me to write about in the PC world than the Mac world, and writing pays my rent.
After 5 or 10 bouts of swapping the PC and iMac on my desk, I finally settled on the PC. To resist the temptation of the iMac, I gave it to a financially challenged friend who has been threatening to write a novel of his own. It made perfect sense. He is new to computers and carries none of the baggage -- emotional and practical -- that I do. The iMac is perfect for him.
I have moved past Macintosh in some very specific ways. (I read recently that my former boss, Mr. Sculley, has himself become a PC user.) Still, choice is good, and it's nice to see Apple making a comeback, headed by the iMac's bright alternative to the accustomed Windows view of the world. I should be at peace with my decision, and I am. For now, anyway.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Campbell Laird)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); CZR (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (55%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (55%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); WRITERS (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



469 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Writer Finds the Facts Don't Support the Image

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

MORGAN
American Financier
By Jean Strouse
Illustrated. 796 pages. Random House. $34.95. 
 In the introduction to her authoritative new biography of John Pierpont Morgan (1837-1913), Jean Strouse makes a startling confession about her experience in writing "Morgan: American Financier," her first book since "Alice James: A Biography" was published in 1980.
Having spent years availing herself of a virtually untouched trove of uncatalogued biographical documents in the Pierpont Morgan Library in Manhattan, as well as additional material in private hands, at the Morgan Grenfell archives in London and other repositories on both sides of the Atlantic, she eventually began to write and got about halfway through a draft when she saw that it wasn't working.
 She explains: "Months later I realized why. From the outset I had found Morgan's detractors more convincing than his champions: they were better writers, they reflected popular American assumptions (including my own) about the 'robber baron' chapter of our history, and their bracing hostility gave the story force. The advocates, by comparison, seemed defensive and fawning. As a result, I had been looking for a modified, human-scale version of the 'boss croupier' of Wall Street -- the cynical tycoon who subjected the entire U.S. economy" to what E. L. Doctorow, writing about Morgan in his novel "Ragtime," referred to as "the psychopathology of his will." But "this was not what I had found," she writes. "The evidence didn't support the picture I had pre-emptively drawn, and I hadn't been noticing what it did suggest."
What adjustments did Ms. Strouse then make that have permitted her to write a book that does indeed work in offering a coherent portrait of Morgan? One set of revelations has to do with his personality. Popular iconography has given us an image of Morgan that is brusque, arrogant, unapproachable, imperious and overwhelming in its force. While Ms. Strouse confirms this side of him, she also shows us a man who was mercurial; given to depression and nervous exhaustion; possessed of what one friend called "a very feminine streak in his nature"; flirtatious; vulnerable to flattery, and occasionally so sensitive to criticism that some felt that his appearance in 1912 before a House Banking and Currency subcommittee trying to establish the existence of a ruling "money trust" helped bring on his terminal illness.
Another dimension of Ms. Strouse's portrait reveals more about Morgan as a great collector of art. His image here, too, has not always been flattering. The connoisseur Bernard Berenson once remarked of Morgan's London house, "It looks like a pawnbroker's shop for Croesuses." The critic Roger Fry delivered a summary judgment that, in the author's words, "has defined Morgan as collector for generations of scholars and readers: 'A crude historical imagination,' the critic wrote, 'was the only flaw in his otherwise perfect insensibility to art .' "
As a corrective to these remarks, Ms. Strouse reveals a man whose sensuous nature was deeply attracted to art, who put himself in the hands of experts and whose "larger project" was "to harvest 'the best' of the world's cultural past for the American future."
But it is of Morgan as a financier that Ms. Strouse offers the profoundest revision. His eloquent detractors have portrayed him as a "great financial Gorgon" set on squeezing to death the farmer and the working man for the sake of his own profit. But while conceding he was "tone-deaf to the sensitivities of people whose interests did not coincide with his own," she argues that in his own mind at least, his interests were always identical to whatever would benefit the public.
His motive for organizing trusts was not to monopolize products but to organize markets more efficiently for the sake of everyone's profit. His bank's manipulations during panics were consistently meant to stabilize the market, no matter how profitable they might prove (and often enough they didn't). His defense of the gold standard was as much to sustain the flow of European capital into America as it was to protect his own interests.
In sum, Ms. Strouse writes: "When Pierpont Morgan died in 1913, at 75, he was the most powerful banker in the world. He had organized giant railroad systems and corporate 'trusts,' presided over a massive transfer of wealth from Europe to the United States, and, at a time when America had no central bank, acted as a monitor of its capital markets and lender of last resort. In the process he helped transform a largely agrarian society into a modern industrial state -- and entered into a struggle over the nature of the country's identity that dates back to Jefferson and Hamilton."
Woven together, Ms. Strouse's revelations tell a story whose interest is only limited by the inherent dryness of banking as an activity. After all, what Morgan essentially did when he wasn't abroad buying art and seducing women was simply to judge financial opportunities, raise money and issue bonds. Even his philanthropy, while heroic, was straightforward.
As authoritative as her text is, her footnotes extend her reach in fascinating directions. In one she quotes Theodore Roosevelt in his autobiography on why trust-busting was not the way to control corporate concentration; Government regulation was. In another she reveals that Cecil Spring-Rice, a British diplomat, "wrote the lyrics to 'I Vow to Thee My Country,' which became the favorite hymn of Diana, Princess of Wales, and was played at her wedding and funeral."
And in yet another she reveals that Morgan did, after all, have one admirer on the left. "In speaking of the capitalists who strive only for profit, only to get rich," Stalin, of all people, told H. G. Wells in an interview, "I do not want to say that these are the most worthless people capable of nothing else. . . . We Soviet people learn a great deal from the capitalists. And Morgan, whom you characterize so unfavorably, was undoubtedly a good, capable organizer."
Which is an understated way of putting what Ms. Strouse has argued with such force here.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Strouse (Sigrid Estrada/Random House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PIERPONT MORGAN LIBRARY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LIBRARIES (72%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (60%); 

PERSON: EDGAR LAURENCE 'E L' DOCTOROW (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



470 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola Posts 13% Drop In First-QuarterNet Income

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
Continuing a recent pattern of weak results, the Coca-Cola Company said yesterday that its first-quarter net income fell 13 percent as the company struggled to expand its business.
The amount of Coke concentrate sold worldwide declined 1 percent, as did revenues, the company said. But expenses rose 5 percent, to $1.953 billion, from $1.857 billion in the first quarter of 1998, diminishing earnings, which were $747 million, or 30 cents a share, down from $857 million, or 34 cents, in the comparable quarter a year earlier. 
 Nearly every one of Coca-Cola's regional markets reported flat or declining volume. The exception was North America, where case volume rose just 1.5 percent, well off the 6 percent increase for the first quarter of 1998. The company said higher prices, instituted in many markets at the start of the year, were responsible for the drop in sales.
Nevertheless, Wall Street bid up the shares $2.3125, to $67.5625, largely because there were some signs that the company's troubles were bottoming out.
Much of the bad news had been shared with analysts last month. But several analysts still expressed surprise at the extent of Coke's difficulties in certain regions.
"These are very discouraging trends in the North American market," said Skip Carpenter, a beverage analyst for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, adding that he was perplexed by the weak demand for Coke products. Sales of concentrate to restaurants, sports arenas, movie theaters and other public places rose just 1 percent in the quarter.
And Michael Branca of Lehman Brothers said he was concerned about the future. Coca-Cola spent heavily for the volume it achieved, he said, and such spending will only increase as the company tries to drive volume overseas.
"Coke is certainly going to have the volume, but at what cost?" Mr. Branca said. Bottlers are starting to want to raise prices around the world to try to increase their returns -- something he said Coke wanted to prevent. "Rather than international bottler retail hikes, which would slow concentrate volume growth, we expect Coca-Cola to fund much of that differential," he said.
The company spent $1.2 billion on marketing support and infrastructure payments for its largest bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises, in 1998. Mr. Branca said the company, in similar fashion, will have to "dramatically increase its spending levels overseas."
Coca-Cola's chairman and chief executive, M. Douglas Ivester, announced the results to an audience of generally friendly and supportive investors at the company's annual meeting in Wilmington, Del., yesterday morning. He described "a rare but real gravitational pull against our sales and volume" because of recessions around the world, and vowed that the company would bounce back quickly.
"We expect business conditions to start improving as we move into the second half of the year," Mr. Ivester said.
The company reported that case volume fell 4 percent in Latin America in the quarter, compared with a 19 percent increase in the first quarter of 1998. Volume in Brazil was down 10 percent, and in Venezuela and Colombia, the combined volume plummeted by 24 percent. Mr. Ivester said the company "intends to keep investing in Latin America to enhance our business system during the current economic crisis."
Price cuts are planned in Thailand, Germany and South Africa, the company said yesterday, but Mr. Branca predicted those would further erode Coca-Cola's profits.
Volume in the Middle East and Far East was flat, and in Europe, it declined 2 percent. Volume in Africa, one of Coca-Cola's smallest regional markets, declined 1 percent.
The biggest growth came from the company's Minute Maid unit, a small fraction of overall sales, where volume rose 5 percent.
And there were glimmers of improvement in some areas. Mr. Carpenter of Donaldson, Lufkin said, for example, that sales during the Easter holidays were stronger in Germany and some parts of Western Europe.
Andrew Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley, also expressed optimism: "We're approaching the bottom. You still need a flashlight, but the tunnel has a little more light." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (94%); CCE (PAR) (51%); CCE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (94%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (70%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (KO) COCA-COLA CO (94%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO (KO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); DELAWARE, USA (70%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE MFG (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (76%); RETAIL SALES (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL BRANCA (73%); M DOUGLAS IVESTER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



471 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Rubin Proposes Modest Limits on Lending Risk

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin outlined a modest five-point American plan today for warding off the kind of financial crisis that rocked three continents over the last two years. He called for strengthened financial disclosure rules and guidelines that would "discourage countries from taking too many risks" when they borrow money.
But Mr. Rubin's proposals, which President Clinton endorsed in a brief talk at the White House on Tuesday, fell well short of creating the kind of new "global financial architecture" that many policy makers debated in the heat of the crisis in emerging markets last fall. His ideas were chiefly modifications of existing rules, more akin to rewiring a building than reconstructing it. 
 At no time in his speech here today before the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies did Mr. Rubin repeat President Clinton's frequent statement last fall that the world was facing its "deepest economic crisis in 50 years." In fact, many American and European officials fear that as Asia's immediate crisis and the threat of economic contagion have receded, the political momentum for far-reaching reforms may have been lost.
Mr. Clinton warned on Tuesday about the dangers of complacency and the Treasury chief said today that he was concerned that in financial markets "even painful lessons recede from memory with time."
Nonetheless, the proposals Mr. Rubin put forward were infused with his characteristic caution about either overregulating markets or expanding the powers of the International Monetary Fund in ways that would signal investors they could count on being saved if a nation appeared on the brink of default. The I.M.F. -- which meets along with the World Bank and the Group of Seven finance ministers early next week -- has been the prime instrument for bailing out ailing nations.
The Secretary made no mention today of turning the I.M.F. into a "lender of last resort" for nations on the brink of bankruptcy, a proposal that some top officials of the fund have floated in recent months. "There was a range of views on that within the Treasury," Mr. Rubin acknowledged in response to a question. But he had opposed the idea, his aides say, fearing that if countries knew that the I.M.F. stood ready to prevent defaults, they would resume the kind of reckless lending that helped Indonesia, South Korea, Russia and Brazil get into trouble.
Similarly, he rejected the imposition of any kind of capital controls, rules that would limit the amount of money countries borrow, and, in times of crisis, prevent investors from pulling their money out. Such regulations, he said, "can be used by politicians as a substitute for real reform of their economies."
Instead Mr. Rubin focused on five areas of reform, some of which are already under way: forcing lenders to pay a greater share of the cost of bailing out nations, discouraging most countries from using fixed exchange rates, encouraging nations to rely more on long-term borrowing and less on short-term, disclosing more information about outstanding debt, and protecting the poor and middle class during crises.
The first initiative arises from the sharp criticism directed at both the United States and the I.M.F. that they bailed out banks and bondholders in Asia by insuring that they were repaid, but did far less for workers who lost their jobs.
Mr. Rubin said today that "market discipline will work only if creditors bear the consequences of the risks they take." He suggested that in future bailouts, the bankers and investors who lent money to a country would have to "share the burden." But he did not say how, and acknowledged that if the rules were too harsh, lenders would steer clear of developing nations.
He was clearer about exchange rates. "At the center of each recent crisis," Mr. Rubin said, "has been a rigid exchange-rate regime that proved ultimately unsustainable," a reference to the efforts by many Asian nations and Russia to peg their currencies to the dollar. He argued that the I.M.F. and individual nations should no provide money to help a country defend a fixed exchange rate, except in rare circumstances.
Mr. Rubin cautioned countries like Argentina that are considering adopting the dollar as their currency, a step many nations see as a way to bring stability to their economies. He said they would be giving up virtually all domestic control over monetary policy, which would be set by the Federal Reserve. And he warned that the Fed would manage the dollar to fit American economic interests -- and no one else's. It would not help supervise foreign banks, he said, or change interest-rate policy to fit another country's needs simply because it had adopted the dollar.
Mr. Rubin was particularly careful in dealing with the question of how to manage the $1.5 trillion that races around the globe each day in currency transactions, purchases and investments. Saying governments "must do a better job of managing their own debt," he warned them against borrowing too much short-term cash, rather than paying more for long-term borrowing. Many nations found that, once their currencies were devalued, they could not meet the short-term debt payments.
Mr. Rubin said that in some cases rules should be adopted to "limit banks' foreign currency exposures." But he did not describe those rules. And while he warned nations against excessive borrowing, he said the best way to deal with the problem was to require countries, banks, securities houses and hedge funds to disclose more data about how much debt they are carrying.
He suggested that Mr. Clinton's Working Group on Financial Markets, which he helps direct, would soon recommend tighter disclosure rules for hedge funds like Long-Term Capital Management, which had to be saved last fall from a multibillion-dollar default. Investigations showed the lenders to Long-Term Capital did not understand how much money the fund had quietly borrowed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin in Washington yesterday, where he spoke about worldwide lending. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TRENDS (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



472 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: 2 Exchanges Said to End Merger Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
The American Stock Exchange and Philadelphia Stock Exchange have terminated their planned merger, according to people close to the negotiations.
The collapse of the merger, which is expected to be announced as early as today, comes as Federal officials investigate whether various practices by the options industry inhibit competition and cause investors to pay higher prices. 
 When the two exchanges announced the proposed merger in June, officials had hoped it would allow them to share technology and otherwise reduce costs by bringing trading under one roof.
But the economic reasoning for a merger has eroded, people close to the talks said, partly because of pressure from regulators to allow multiple listing of options -- that is, different exchanges trading the same options -- as well as from the anticipated arrival of competition from a new electronic options-trading exchange.
After it became apparent that a merger was not going to occur, the exchanges discussed other alliances or combinations, but so far those talks have not produced any results, people close to the talks said.
The likely dissolution of the merger was first reported by The Philadelphia Inquirer on Tuesday.
 After the planned merger was announced last year, the Justice Department requested information about the combination. And two months ago, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Arthur Levitt, asked the heads of the nation's four options exchanges to cooperate in opening the options markets to greater competition, including the integration of electronic options markets. One such exchange, backed by a number of Wall Street firms and called the International Securities Exchange, applied to the S.E.C. in February to begin trading as early as next year.
The American Stock Exchange, which was itself acquired last year by the National Association of Securities Dealers, which also operates the Nasdaq market, informed the Philadelphia exchange in a letter April 6 that it believed a merger was no longer feasible. A person close to the negotiations denied that the deal collapsed because of pressure from the Justice Department or the S.E.C.
According to this person, the merger was falling apart "before those things came into play. The economics and viability of the combination just didn't pencil out."
The end of merger talks comes three months after the Chicago Board Options Exchange canceled its merger with the Pacific Stock Exchange, citing technological concerns and antitrust questions, including requests by the Justice Department for information about the deal. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (AMEX); PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE NYSE MKT LLC (90%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (63%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE HOLDINGS INC (54%); NYSE ARCA INC (51%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (AMEX); PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); MERGERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



473 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Rising Crime in Argentina Fuels a Listless Presidential Campaign

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, April 21

 BODY:
Crime is emerging as a major political issue for the first time in the big cities of Argentina, a country where people have traditionally stayed out well past midnight to hop from cafes to tango clubs without any fear.
The issue is filling a vacuum in an otherwise listless campaign to succeed President Carlos Saul Menem in which the two leading presidential candidates generally agree on economic and social policy. It is a touchy issue for both the Buenos Aires Mayor, Fernando de la Rua, and Gov. Eduardo Duhalde, who is responsible for governing the province surrounding the capital. 
 Neither presidential candidate is blaming the other for the crime wave, apparently fearing that such a charge could backfire. Mr. De la Rua, the Alianza candidate, has been criticized for a rise in Buenos Aires street prostitution under his watch; while critics of Mr. Duhalde, the front-runner for the Justicialist nod, have attributed a rise in crime around his province to the purging of his corrupt, violent provincial police.
But with recent polls showing that crime is the No. 2 concern of Argentine voters after unemployment, advisers to the two candidates are drawing up detailed anti-crime programs that will shake up Argentina's corrupt and underpaid police departments and court systems.
In recent weeks, members of Congress of the ruling Justicialist Party and the opposition Alianza coalition have traded barbs accusing each other of being soft on crime, but they joined together to lengthen prison sentences for juvenile offenders and for people found concealing guns without a license.
President Menem, too, seems to be trying to capitalize on the growing concerns about crime to help consolidate his control over his party.
"I am not willing to watch unmoved the spectacle of a country where politicians speak while innocent people die," he said in a recent interview. This week he transferred more than 1,500 border police and navy military police to help patrol the streets of Buenos Aires.
Mr. De la Rua's vice presidential candidate, Carlos (Chacho) Alvarez, criticized the President's move, warning that "we should not militarize the conflict." And Mr. De la Rua suggested that crime was rising because the Government was ineffective at fighting poverty.
President Menem responded in an open letter, published in the local press today, scolding the Mayor for "confusing the dignity of the poor with the pathology of delinquency."
While preparing for his run for President, Mr. Duhalde made a pilgrimage to New York City a year ago to be photographed with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and to receive a briefing on the city's successful anti-crime strategies.
Ever since, Mr. Duhalde has included references in his stump speeches to "zero tolerance," the policing theory made popular in New York that a crackdown on small crimes contributes to a decrease of more violent crimes. Meanwhile, Mr. De la Rua had a well-publicized breakfast here with the former New York Police Commissioner, William J. Bratton, in November in which they discussed crime strategy.
Argentina remains one of Latin America's safer countries, and Buenos Aires has nowhere near the crime problem of Caracas, Mexico City or Rio de Janeiro. Still, the Buenos Aires daily La Nacion recently published a front-page article with statistics leaked by the Government indicating that incidents of serious reported crimes in Buenos Aires doubled between 1995 and 1998 in Buenos Aires, from 480,000 to 960,000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); JUSTICIALIST PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICIALIST PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (79%); CRIME PREVENTION (79%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); SENTENCING (74%); JUVENILE CRIME (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (70%); PROSTITUTION (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); BORDER CONTROL (63%); ARMED FORCES (62%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



474 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

ASIA
 
PAKISTAN: BHUTTO FACES PARLIAMENT OUSTER -- The chief election commissioner issued a notice for former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her husband, Asif Ali Zardari, to appear on Saturday before the commission, which is expected to take steps to disqualify them from their seats in Parliament. The two were convicted on corruption charges and barred from public office, but Ms. Bhutto, who is in London, has said she will not return to Pakistan until the Supreme Court decides on an appeal of her conviction.Celia W. Dugger (NYT) 

SOUTH KOREA: THOUSANDS ON STRIKE -- Thousands of workers walked off their jobs to protest planned layoffs, tying up the Daewoo shipyard and, for the third day, Seoul's subway system. The stoppages added to what labor leaders hoped would grow into a nationwide wave of strikes aimed at curbing restructuring in the country's conglomerates and money-losing public service corporations. (AP)
 
HONG KONG: 11 DISSIDENTS BARRED -- Immigration officials have refused entry to 11 exiled mainland dissidents invited by local activists to a seminar on May 1 and 2 to mark the 1989 crackdown at Tiananmen Square, Beijing. Several prominent former student leaders, including the Boston-based Wang Dan, were invited by the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China. Officials would not comment on the cases. (AP)
 
INDONESIA: MORE AUTONOMY FOR REGIONS -- Parliament passed a bill giving more autonomy to the provinces, part of an effort to ease simmering regional tensions. The bill gives wide-ranging authority to regional governments in all matters except defense, foreign policy, judicial, fiscal and monetary affairs and matters considered "strategic." It applies in principle to all 27 provinces, although a separate autonomy package has been prepared for East Timor. (Reuters)
 
JAPAN: FORGIVING BILLIONS IN DEBT -- Japan plans to waive loans totaling about $7.82 billion to 41 impoverished countries as part of efforts among developed nations to alleviate the third-world debt burden, a Finance Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa will inform his Group of Seven counterparts of the plan when they meet in Germany on Monday. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: DISSIDENT CLERIC JAILED -- An outspoken dissident theologian, Mohsen Kadivar, has been sentenced to 18 months in prison for "disseminating lies" and defaming Iran's Islamic system, his lawyer said. The trial was seen as part of a broader crackdown on the press and supporters of the reformist President, Mohammad Khatami, whose moderate faction is locked in a power struggle with conservative rivals. (AP, Reuters)
 
IRAN: IMPEACHMENT MOVE -- Conservative Iranian deputies called for the impeachment of Iran's moderate Culture Minister, Ataollah Mohajerani, in a new assault on President Mohammad Khatami's reforms. The 31 deputies presented a petition to the 270-seat Parliament, summoning the minister to be interrogated on his policies within 10 days, the Iranian news agency reported. Mr. Mohajerani is accused of following a liberal policy toward the press, book publishing and the arts. (Reuters)
 
IRAQ: U.S. JETS ATTACK -- American jets struck antiaircraft sites in northern Iraq after they were threatened by Iraqi radar, the U.S. military at the Incirlik base in Turkey said. Air Force F-16C's dropped laser-guided bombs on sites west of Mosul while patrolling the northern no-flight zone, the military said. (AP)
 
JORDAN, SYRIA: TIES RENEWED -- In what Jordanian officials called a historic visit, King Abdullah II of Jordan held talks with President Hafez al-Assad, marking a thaw in relations that deteriorated after Jordan and Israel signed a peace treaty in 1994. The leaders held three rounds of talks "in a positive climate," a presidential spokesman said. A Jordanian diplomat said Jordan was "totally supportive" of Syria in its talks with Israel. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
COLOMBIA: ARREST IN '95 SLAYING -- The retired former commander of a notorious army intelligence unit, Col. Bernardo Ruiz, was arrested on charges of arranging the 1995 assassination of Alvaro Gomez, then Colombia's main opposition leader, authorities said, ending a manhunt that began in October. Mr. Gomez, a three-time presidential candidate and head of the Conservative Party, was shot dead on Nov. 2, 1995. (AP)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: POLICE ACCUSED -- Allegations of police brutality have more than doubled in the last 12 months compared with the year before, according to a new agency investigating police misconduct. The figures came to light as the Independent Complaints Directorate took over the investigation of six officers videotaped abusing suspects when they took a television documentary crew out with them one night. The officers were seen kicking, punching and setting their dogs on handcuffed suspects. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
SIERRA LEONE: CIVILIAN MASSACRE REPORT -- West African peacekeeping troops are advancing on rebel positions in Songo, 24 miles from the capital, after reports of mass killings there, the official radio said. "There are reports of a major massacre of civilians and heavy destruction of property in the area by retreating rebels," the Freetown radio said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
EUROPE
 
FRANCE: LINKED TO ALGERIAN ARMS -- A prosecutor asked for prison terms of three to eight years for 11 men charged with smuggling arms to Islamic rebels in Algeria. The network was said to have operated from Paris and to have smuggled out weapons via Marseilles. The trial began in January and a verdict is expected soon. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SENTENCING (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PETITIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); STRIKES (70%); IMMIGRATION (67%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); PRISONS (64%); RELIGION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



475 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Police Corner a Big Rat, and Its Union Makes a Federal Case

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
It's no secret that the Mayor has been trying to crack down on rodents in New York City, making them just one of many targets in his campaign to improve the city's quality of life.
But union leaders said yesterday the Police Department went too far. 
 An inflatable 30-foot rodent used by union leaders to dramatize labor issues was taken into custody during a recent protest outside the CBS building on West 52d Street. The unions went to court this week to get their mascot back.
The rodent has become something of a fixture on city streets, often put to use to symbolize the presence of nonunion contractors at work sites. But the police say it is a traffic nuisance. Instead of setting a trap or using poison, the police took a novel step: deflation.
In demanding the return of the giant rat and damages from the city, the union said the seizure was an unconstitutional attempt to silence one of its most effective protest tools.
The dispute began on April 8, when two members of Local 78, which represents asbestos, lead and hazardous waste workers, were distributing leaflets outside the CBS building, challenging what they said was CBS's hiring of a nonunion contractor.
Towering over them was their favorite prop, which looked as if it was peering right into the third-floor windows of CBS, said Sal Speziale, the president of Local 78.
"This is the biggest rat in the country that they just took," Mr. Speziale said. "You can see this guy for almost half a mile."
Mr. Speziale contended that CBS called the police. "They didn't like looking out of the window at this rat," Mr. Speziale said.
A CBS spokesman said the company had not called the police.
Marilyn Mode, a police spokeswoman, said: "This balloon was, in fact, impeding traffic and blocking parking spots. They were given numerous warnings, which they did not heed."
But union officials say that their rat was not blocking traffic, and that the police were seeking to tear down a powerful symbol that has become almost as ubiquitous as Ed Koch.
"What are they try trying to prove?" said Mike Hellstrom, a union organizer who contended that the city "figured they'd take our rat, and take our fire out from beneath us."
The lawsuit, filed Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, says the police violated not only the union's constitutional rights of expression and assembly, but also the civil rights of a member, Frederick Bianchi, who was arrested outside the CBS building and charged with disorderly conduct.
The suit asks that the police stop from interfering in future demonstrations, and pay compensatory and punitive damages, including the cost of replacing the rat, which was a victim of police brutality, the suit contends.
"It was tossed from a Police Department vehicle onto the ground," the suit says. "It was dragged across that ground in a haphazard manner and left outside, exposed to the elements."
The union paid about $8,000 for the rat six months ago. It also uses three smaller rat balloons, which, fully inflated, are 10 to 15 feet high.
Union officials said the balloons are trucked around town as part of an aggressive approach to grass-roots organizing. The rats have been inflated outside ABC, the Carlyle Hotel, Mount Sinai Hospital, Fordham University, The Daily News and Federal Express, Mr. Speziale said.
But demand was greatest for the 30-foot rat, said Lowell Peterson, a lawyer for the union. It was scheduled to take part in another rally the afternoon it was apprehended.
"We're seeking an injunction just to get the rat back," Mr. Peterson said. "This is a popular rat." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RODENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARRESTS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (75%); DAMAGES (74%); NUISANCE (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (68%); ASBESTOS (66%); 

PERSON: SAL SPEZIALE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



476 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Community College Offers A Nest for Digital Ventures

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
A community college in Manhattan is teaming up with some big-name investors to create a business incubator for emerging companies in digital television and other digital media.
Although research universities, like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford University, are more usually associated with high-technology ventures, the Borough of Manhattan Community College is eager to join the gold rush. The college is providing a floor of Fiterman Hall, in the heart of Silicon Alley on West Broadway in lower Manhattan, for the young businesses to nest in. 
 The college's partners are two venture capital funds, Bear Stearns Constellation Ventures and the Psilos Group, as well as the New York City Investment Fund. The Investment Fund, which was founded by Henry R. Kravis to create jobs and promote economic development, now has $79 million in capital and more than 64 investors, including AT & T, Bell Atlantic, Morgan Stanley and General Electric.
An incubator allows new, small companies to pay below-market rent and often gives technical guidance and other support to help them get started.
Constellation Ventures and the Psilos Group will each put up $500,000 in cash, and their respective chiefs, Clifford Friedman and Albert Waxman, will be managing partners of the new venture, called the New York Telemedia Accelerator.
The Investment Fund, in its first investment in an incubator, is providing another $500,000 in cash and a $2.5 million line of credit. The fund is also looking at several other proposals for incubators in other fields, and talking to several other CUNY colleges about possible partnerships, said Kathryn Wylde, president and chief executive of the fund.
Ms. Wylde said the fund hopes that the Telemedia Accelerator will help keep the television industry in New York and create opportunities for minority and poor students. "The fact that B.M.C.C. is a community college is meaningful to us, since they have a very diverse population," she said.
The college hopes that some of its faculty members will consult with the start-up companies in the incubator, and that some of its 17,000 students will get jobs or internships, said Antonio Perez, the college's president.
The college recently established an associate's degree in multimedia programming and design, and is sponsoring five student internships at the incubator with a $25,000 grant from the May and Samuel Rudin Foundation. (The Rudin family is also an investor in the New York City Investment Fund.)
"To the extent that students can interact with these companies, they will learn what a new industry will be like in the 21st century," said Dr. Waxman of the Psilos Group. Dr. Waxman is a City College graduate who went on to found two companies.
The venture will pay the college a below-market rent of $10 a square foot, about $200,000 a year, and will also pay to renovate the 20,000 square feet of space. In return, the community college will be given a 5 percent interest in the project, and would become vested over five years.
That equity stake has the college's president thinking big. "Let's say one of the companies becomes successful like Microsoft and we make a lot of money," Mr. Perez said. "We could be the only community college in the country not to have to charge tuition."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); NEW YORK CITY INVESTMENT FUND LLC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (89%); STARTUPS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



477 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Big Jump in Computer-Related Employment

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
Without a lot of hype -- or government help -- the computer-software industry has been booming in New York City, where the number of jobs at software firms more than doubled from 1992 to 1997, according to a report released yesterday by Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller.
The boom represents a sharp rebound from the early 1990's, when computer jobs in the city grew far more slowly than in the nation as a whole. But even with almost 30,000 jobs in the software industry, New York City still ranks only sixth in the nation in terms of the number of software jobs, below not only Silicon Valley in California, but also Boston, Los Angeles, Dallas and Seattle, the report says. 
 The report focuses not on the artists and advertising people who make up the bulk of the employees of "Silicon Alley," but on computer people in the city, including the more hard-core types who might, for example, write codes or create systems for trading stocks. The sorts of companies involved range from tiny one- or two-person operations to Information Builders, which makes business software and employs 900 people in the city.
At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Hevesi attributed some of the growth in the software business to what he called "the shiny city," with its lower crime rates and more business-friendly government.
But he warned that there are still major obstacles to further growth, including the city's tax rates, which he said are higher than those of other cities with software businesses. He said he planned to meet this morning with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to discuss cutting some of those taxes, including those on electricity and telecommunications, which weigh heavily on high-technology businesses.
In fact, the city has just started to use economic incentives to keep software and Internet companies from moving to less expensive areas. In February, the city agreed to provide breaks on electricity costs and other incentives to Doubleclick, a fast-growing Internet advertising agency with two-thirds of its 600 employees in the city, said Kevin O'Connor, the young company's chief executive.
There is a lot of competition among governments in the region and across the country to attract software companies, said Bruce Bernstein, a software developer who is president of the New York Software Industry Association. He said the city is vulnerable to poaching in part because of the high rents, which drive out growing businesses.
The report recommends setting up a government office, like the one that exists for the film industry, to help high-technology businesses. Such an office could help firms find low-cost space in which to do business, and encourage cooperation among the city's educational institutions, which in other cities have been important incubators of technology companies.
The report comes as the city's economy is as strong as it has been in a decade, and when the private sector has finally regained the 360,000 jobs it lost in the recession of the early 1990's. But some government officials and civic watchdogs have become increasingly concerned that the city's economy -- and its tax revenues -- have become too dependent on the volatile securities industry.
"If you depend on Wall Street, you're going to have some disappointment," Mr. Hevesi said. "If the stock market corrects when the Dow Jones industrial average is at 10,000, we'll be fine. If it corrects at 6,000, we're in big trouble."
Software jobs have not paid as well as Wall Street jobs -- but they come closer than those in any other industry in the city, according to the report. In 1997, the average wage in the software business was $69,250; in financial businesses, the average was $106,040.
But for those in the software business, there is clearly a disadvantage to working in New York. New York's computer-services workers ranked fourth in earnings among their peers in 15 big cities, according to the report, but when their salaries were adjusted for the city's higher costs of living, they ranked 14th.
But those numbers date from 1996, before a clutch of the city's Internet firms sold their shares on Wall Street and made their employees millionaires. And that has made a big impression on young people in the city, said Ken Perlin, director of New York University's Center for Advanced Technology.
Professor Perlin, who teaches a course for undergraduates on computer graphics, recently asked his students how many were involved in start-up Internet companies. More than half of the 55 students raised their hands, he said.
"Every year, some of the students I know of go on and become millionaires," he said. "To me, this is a big sea change. Even undergraduates are saying, 'I'm going to stay here in New York.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi says computer jobs are vital to the city. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOUBLECLICK INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPUTER SOFTWARE (94%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (51%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



478 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Keeping Ethnic Tension From Turning Violent

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG

 BODY:
If the world is permitted any nostalgia for Communism, let it note that alongside the many horrors was the virtue of a relative measure of ethnic peace. It is often so with empires -- and when they fall, the ethnic, religious and nationalist conflicts they smothered with their harsh repression can erupt. The fall of Communism, and the end of American and Soviet sponsorship of political wars in the third world, have made these ethnic conflicts into the face of war today, exemplified by the former Yugoslavia.
But not every nation with a tense mix of ethnicities has slipped into violence. Romania and Hungary, two nations that border Yugoslavia, are trying to manage conflicts surrounding the Hungarian minority in Romania peacefully. The same is true with the Hungarian minority living in Slovakia. Many former Soviet nations are arriving at democratic ways to deal with the large Russian populations in their midst. Latvia, for example, has now agreed to remove most barriers to citizenship for the one-third of its residents who are ethnic Russians. And while several ethnic enclaves of the former Soviet Union, like Chechnya and the ethnic Armenian region of Nagorno-Karabakh, have fought separatist wars, many other enclaves have not. 
 History was one thing that made Yugoslavia different. In the Balkans, the ebb and flow of empires over the centuries -- Ottoman, Austro-Hungarian and others -- left a long cycle of killings and revenge. The identity of each ethnic group, particularly the Serbs, was largely shaped by memories of victimization, military defeat and humiliation, leaving people susceptible to hate propaganda. This is not just ancient history, as World War II saw mass killings of Serbs at the hands of Croats and, to a far lesser extent, Muslims.
Yet the Yugoslavia that emerged from the war was a multi-ethnic state, with high rates of intermarriage. The country's strongman, Tito, who was half-Croat and half-Slovene, permitted no public discussion of ethnic tensions. Communist ideology promoted universalism. Class, not ethnicity, mattered. "Brotherhood and Unity" was Tito's slogan. He balanced the demands of various ethnic groups, and used Yugoslavs' consciousness of their victimhood to unite them as a small country standing up to Stalin. He also used repression, clamping down on various outbreaks of Serbian, Croatian and Albanian nationalism and purging or jailing the leading proponents.
The positive side of Tito's control was that people felt secure that they would not become ethnic victims. But after his death in 1980, the rules changed. Yugoslavia was governed by a rotating presidency, and there was constant uncertainty about whether the next ruler would have a particular ethnic tilt. The new leaders also permitted Serbs, always the largest and most powerful group, to express their grievances in public.
The single most important factor in Yugoslavia's violence, however, was the emergence of Slobodan Milosevic, a leader willing to destroy his country to keep himself in power. Ethnic conflicts do not explode on their own. They are exploited by ruthless leaders who want power, land or treasure.
The rise of Mr. Milosevic threatened non-Serb minorities such as Croats and Bosnian Muslims, who then seceded from Yugoslavia. But since the new nations had Serbian minorities, Serbs grew nervous, allowing Mr. Milosevic to use propaganda to exploit their fears and turn them into killers.
Mr. Milosevic had the tools to do this, because Yugoslavia never shook off its Communist system. The same powerful and well-controlled structures Tito used to repress nationalism -- the party, Interior Ministry, army and media -- were intact and available for Mr. Milosevic to employ in the service of hate.
Other ethnically mixed nations of the former Communist world have been more fortunate. Few other ethnic groups in the region can match the Serbs for their sense of humiliation and victimization -- sentiments that unscrupulous leaders can turn into hate. The Hungarians in Slovakia and Romania, for instance, worry about agricultural policy and establishing a university in their language. They do not worry about mass killing.
Political factors also matter. While Mr. Milosevic promised Serbs a better life through ethnic cleansing, the leaders of Hungary, Romania and Slovakia held out the promise of joining Europe. These leaders were essentially told that they had no chance of NATO or European Union membership until they solved their ethnic problems. Similar statements helped persuade governments of the Baltic States to treat their Russian minorities more justly. It is not only the heavy hand of imperial rule that can impose ethnic cooperation. In most circumstances, the desire for democracy and economic growth can do the same. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ARMENIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); LATVIA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (93%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ARMENIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); LATVIA (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HISTORY (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); RELIGION (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); MARRIAGE (50%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



479 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Technology Shares Climb As Stock Rally Continues
Strong profit reports helped fuel a rally in stocks as technology and consumer issues appeared to regain the leadership they long enjoyed. Stocks tied to the business cycle, meanwhile, mostly paused after their recent jumps.
The Nasdaq composite index posted a gain of 79.44 points, or 3.3 percent, to 2,489.08. Combined with Tuesday's rebound, that wiped out Monday's 5.56 percent slide. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 132.87 points, to 10,581.42, a record. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased by 29.95 points, or 2.3 percent, to 1,336.12. C10. 

Breaking an Internet Monopoly
America Online was one of five companies chosen to compete with a Government-backed monopoly in the lucrative business of assigning Internet domains. The surprising choice introduced a seemingly formidable competitor to the business and prompted questions about whether smaller companies would ever effectively compete. C2.
 
Borders Chief Resigns Abruptly
Just a little more than five months after boasting about hiring Philip M. Pfeffer, a longtime book industry executive, as its chief executive, Borders Group unceremoniously announced his abrupt departure. The company, the second-largest bookseller in the nation after Barnes & Noble, also said that its first-quarter earnings would be 4 to 5 cents a share, lower than analysts' estimates of 7 cents. C4.
 
Rubin Offers Plan to Avoid Risk
Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin outlined a modest five-point American plan for warding off the kind of financial crisis that rocked three continents over the last two years. But his proposals, which President Clinton endorsed on Tuesday, fell well short of creating the new "global financial architecture" that many policy makers debated in the heat of the crisis in emerging markets last fall. C4.
 
Compaq Posts Dismal Earnings
Confirming the bad news that led to the ouster of its chief executive this week, Compaq Computer announced that it earned half of what analysts had expected only two weeks ago. The company's chairman and acting chief executive called the results unacceptable but declined to provide much information to illuminate the sources of Compaq's problems or to outline its path back to financial health. C6.
 
Coca-Cola's first-quarter earnings declined 13 percent, continuing a recent pattern of weak results. C2.
 
Sunbeam, still struggling with the effects of excessive inventories and heavy debt, turned in another round of poor results. C22.
 
S.E.C. Charges Pairgain Suspect
The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Gary D. Hoke Jr., an employee of Pairgain Technologies, of stock price manipulation in connection with a fake news report about a takeover of Pairgain that was posted on an Internet site. The charges echo the Federal fraud charges filed against Mr. Hoke last week. C22.
 
A Pleasant Economic Conundrum
Economists find themselves without an explanation of a felicitous combination that was supposed to be impossible: higher productivity with lower unemployment and inflation. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.
 
Ban Is Threatened on U.S. Beef
The European Union's executive agency threatened to ban beef imports from the United States, intensifying a long-running feud over beef from hormone-treated cattle. C8.
 
New York Software Industry Booms
The computer-software industry has been booming in New York City, where the number of jobs at software companies more than doubled from 1992 to 1997. B9.
 
Futures Tables Incomplete
Some data for the futures tables were not available for this edition because of computer problems at The Associated Press.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,581.42, up 132.87
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.53%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 119.73, up 0.95
 
Graph tracks the share price of Network Solutions, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); AOL INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); PAIRGAIN TECHNOLOGIES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); DOMAIN NAMES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



480 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
As agencies hold their annual conference, the accentuation is very much on the positive.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE sunny skies over Madison Avenue, metaphorically speaking, are likely to extend to northern Florida at the 81st annual meeting of the American Association of Advertising Agencies.
The meeting, which began yesterday at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Amelia Island, brings together top executives of an industry that is enjoying what is likely to be a sixth consecutive year of robust growth. And for the largest agencies, whose executives are most visible at such conferences -- from the meeting rooms to the golf courses to the bars -- business has rarely been better. 
 The optimistic mood is reflected in attendance for the event, which continues through Saturday: executives from member agencies are expected to turn out at the highest rate since 1990, the last year before a wrenching recession took hold.
When times are tough, members hunker down at home, passing up stays at ritzy hotels. When their mood is ebullient, $255 a night at a "special conference rate," as described in the meeting brochure, is not too costly an expense.
Because this could well be "a record year for the industry by any measure," said O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the association, which is known as the Four A's, "everybody's going to this meeting in very high spirits."
As a result, he added in an interview before the meeting began, he planned to devote his annual speech opening the general session this morning to "12 things to celebrate." By comparison, Mr. Drake's opening speech last year centered on concerns that he thought needed to be addressed.
Two issues that bothered association members in 1998 seem less pressing. One was the encroachment of management consultants into the realm of brand-building services offered by agencies.
"Last year, we seemed to be a little more up in arms about being under attack from consultants," said Patrick J. McGrath, the 1998-99 chairman of the association who is president and chief executive at Jordan McGrath Case & Partners/Euro RSCG in New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Advertising.
"But now, rather than worrying," he added, "the smart thing seems to be to reassert what we do, how we do things that no consultant can do."
Mr. McGrath said that he would describe one way to accomplish that in a speech scheduled for this morning. He plans to outline the efforts of a group formed at the 1998 meeting to produce "The Chairman's Initiative," a series of taped interviews with "C.E.O.'s of major corporations, talking about how important advertising agencies have been to their brands and businesses."
Mr. McGrath said he would show segments of the initial tapes, featuring John Pepper, chairman of the Procter & Gamble Company, who is speaking at the meeting, and Herbert D. Kelleher, chairman, president and chief executive of the Southwest Airlines Company.
Four additional executives have agreed to be interviewed for the series, Mr. McGrath said: Robert A. Eckert, president and chief executive of the Kraft Foods unit of the Philip Morris Companies; Alan G. Hassenfeld, chairman and chief executive of Hasbro Inc.; Edward B. Rust Jr., chairman, president and chief executive of the State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company, and Stephen W. Sanger, chairman and chief executive of General Mills Inc.
The other issue that bothered members last year involved a surprise move by the Association of National Advertisers, the trade organization that represents marketers, to invite agencies to join. That initiative was announced at the annual conference of the advertiser association in October, with little or no consultation with officials of the Four A's.
"That triggered a decision point for advertising agencies, to affirm or deny whether we need an industry association," said Shelly Lazarus, the 1998-99 chairwoman of the Four A's, who is chairwoman and chief executive at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, part of WPP Group P.L.C.
"The answer was a resounding yes," said Ms. Lazarus, who favors agency membership in the advertiser association, followed by "a certain searching for a reaffirmation of what is valuable to our members."
"That makes some people nervous," she added, "but I think it's healthy."
Ms. Lazarus, who is to speak on Saturday, said she intended to discuss the need for agencies "to know how to work their magic through every point of contact, every way of reaching consumers, or lose our appeal to clients."
Another topic on her agenda, she said, was the "opportunity for getting the talent we need for the future" by taking advantage of the "fascination with the new media" among young potential employees.
"If we're viewed as being at the center of trying to figure out a whole new world of communications, that would be extremely compelling to them," Ms. Lazarus said. "But if we're seen as 'the place to call if you want a television commercial,' we will not be particularly interesting to future talent -- or to clients."
At a business session that opened the meeting -- formally known as the 1999 management conference and annual meeting -- Ms. Lazarus was elected chairwoman of the Four A's for 1999-2000.
Also, Phil Dusenberry, chairman of BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom Group, was elected vice chairman for 1999-2000. And John Emmerling, chairman and chief creative officer at Emmerling Post in New York, was elected secretary and treasurer for 1999-2000.
While attendees may be beaming over the bright forecasts for the industry, the actual weather is of some concern. That is because Amelia Island was the site of a previous conference that became synonymous with disastrous weather among the denizens of Madison Avenue.
In October 1996, the marketers' association held its annual conference at the Ritz-Carlton during a rare Florida northeaster that lasted throughout the entire event. Many attendees, forced inside and deprived of their patio cocktails and sports tournaments, developed cabin fever and fled. The pouring rain and gale-force winds did not relent until the conference ended.
"Florida and I are not a good combination," Ms. Lazarus said when reminded of the incident. "Whenever I go, it really rains."
Mr. Drake called the 1996 conference "the worst four days of my life."
"But I have my fingers crossed," he said. "I figure the A.N.A. had all the bad luck and the Four A's is due for some good luck."
Mr. McGrath agreed.
His weather forecast? "Bring your shorts." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (60%); PG (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (60%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (81%); JORDAN MCGRATH CASE & PARTNERS INC (63%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (60%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (58%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); BRANDING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%); 

PERSON: PATRICK J MCGRATH (75%); SHELLY LAZARUS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



481 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE POUND IS LOWER. The British currency declined after minutes from the Bank of England's April meeting suggested that interest rates could fall further. In New York, the pound eased to $1.6064, from $1.6098 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the British pound to the dollar, since October 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BRITISH POUND (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



482 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Dow Jones Annual Meeting Used as Forum for a Protest

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Spearheaded by two Wall Street Journal reporters who just won the Pulitzer Prize, about 100 employees told the annual stockholders meeting of Dow Jones & Company yesterday that proposed cuts in pension benefits for more than half of the company's 8,300 employees are sapping loyalty and could provoke a strike.
Bob Davis, the White House reporter of one of the two top-selling newspapers in the country, told the gathering on the 106th floor of the World Trade Center that he wanted "to alert the Dow Jones shareholders to the anger and resentment in the newsroom over management's decision to slash our retirement benefits." 
 Mr. Davis, one of a six-member team that won the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for international reporting last week, added, "I believe workers would rather strike than accept management's terms."
Through January, Dow Jones each year has paid 15 percent of the salaries of vested employees into a retirement account. But shortly after this year's contribution was deposited, Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of the company, said that the 15 percent payments -- technically designated as profit sharing -- could not be sustained when the company's profits had lagged for several years running.
At the moment, the company is negotiating a new pension arrangement with the Independent Association of Publishers' Employees. The union numbers 2,400 Dow Jones employees among its members and, since January 1997, has been an affiliate of the Communications Workers of America.
The initial Dow Jones proposal, according to both the union and company executives, would provide employees with a 5 percent benefit from company funds. In addition, employees could contribute up to 6 percent of their salaries toward a pension, with the company matching 50 percent of the employees' contribution.
That proposal, last year, would have cost the company $21 million, as opposed to the $40 million it actually paid to about 5,500 company employees.
Mr. Davis's allusion to a strike was not echoed by any of the negotiators for the union; indeed, as long as the contract remains in effect, employees are barred from such an action.
Dow Jones's annual meeting has not been devoid of protests before, but participants in yesterday's protest said it was unusual for prominent Journal reporters to take the lead in such an action.
Mr. Kann's opening speech to shareholders alluded to the complaints even before they were made. Looking out at dozens of his employees sitting among the audience of investors, he said, "The company is determined to make sure that the compensation packages we offer employees remain fully competitive." The company's opening offer, he said, "would already equate with what our competitors do, on average."
Steve Liesman, another reporter on the Pulitzer-Prize winning international reporting team, followed Mr. Davis to the microphone and predicted there would be a potential loss of shareholder value if journalists brought less commitment to their work. "You can't punch it into a spreadsheet," he said, "but it's there."
In response, Mr. Kann said, "I do understand the depth of feeling on this," although he added, "I do not think this is a productive forum for negotiating this issue."
The poor performance of the company's market information business, Telerate, depressed earnings for several years before Dow Jones sold Telerate to Bridge Information Systems. Dow Jones had a net loss of $802 million in 1997 and net income of just $8.4 million in 1998. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO (DJ) DOW JONES & CO INC (96%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES & CO (DJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); 

PERSON: ROBERT G DAVIS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



483 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Earnings Prove Happy Surprise For Wall Street

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
First-quarter earnings reports are pouring in, and they are pleasing. Citigroup beat Wall Street estimates by 16 percent. I.B.M. had a robust quarter. Boeing pleasantly surprised. International Paper's earnings fell less than expected while its executives pointed to rising paper prices and returning demand in Asia.
Even Exxon, which experienced a sharp drop in earnings because of plummeting oil prices in January and February, beat analyst estimates by a penny. Similarly, Coca-Cola's revenues and profits did not fall as much as had been feared, giving its stock a lift yesterday. 
 Positive earnings surprises are running higher than the historical average, with about half the 500 companies in the Standard & Poor's index of large companies reporting, according to I.B.E.S. International and the First Call Corporation, which track earnings projections and results.
If the trend continues, earnings this quarter could grow 9 percent to 10 percent, according to First Call. That pace would make the quarter the first with above-average earnings growth since the end of 1997.
But even more significant is the steady rise in earnings forecasts for all of 1999 by Wall Street strategists.
Without doubt, the overall economic outlook has improved both in the United States and abroad. There are signs of a turnaround in Asia, battered since the devaluation of the Thai baht in 1997. European central bankers have cut interest rates to spark growth. Investors are betting again on emerging markets, and Brazil seems to be getting its problems under control just months after it devalued its currency.
What's more, higher earnings are looming for the oil industry since oil prices have risen sharply in recent weeks. And better results than expected last quarter for American industries, like paper, and for cyclical companies that thrive when the economy is strong are causing financial analysts to reassess.
The brightening picture is encouraging investors to take a longer view and providing signs of support for the stock market in the months ahead. And the overall rise in expectations is distracting from some of the big disappointments, like the earnings shortfall at Compaq Computer and Intel's weak first-quarter sales.
In just five months, Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Company, has moved from forecasting a 5 percent decline in operating earnings for the S.& P. 500 in 1999 to an increase of 8.5 percent. Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan, is now predicting an 8 percent jump. Stronger-than-expected growth at home and abroad caused him to jettison his measly forecast of 2 percent earnings growth last fall.
And corporate profits for 2000 are looking good, a fact that should buoy investors, who bet in large part on what a company is expected to earn in the years ahead. In fact, Abby Joseph Cohen, the co-chairwomen of the investment policy committee at Goldman Sachs & Company, puts earnings growth next year at 8 percent, slightly stronger than this year's upwardly revised 7 percent.
All this rosy talk has obscured the stock market plunge of last fall and the third quarter's decline in operating earnings, the first quarterly decline since 1991.
But as the selloff early this week in growth and technology stocks indicates, the question remains whether these improved earnings projections are enough to support the high cost of stocks. I.B.E.S., which gauges the attractiveness of stocks based on corporate earnings and interest rates, shows stocks at their highest valuation since 1987.
Even with higher earnings, "the market will still be too expensive," said Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. He estimates that the S.& P. 500 index is overvalued by about 26 percent, a level that in the past has signaled a stock market correction. Another cautionary note may be seen in the declines in the shares of Exxon and Microsoft yesterday even though both companies reported numbers that were better than expected.
Still, confidence begets confidence. An improved earnings outlook may encourage investors to ignore warning signs, as they have in the past. The Leuthold Group's major trend index for the stock market has blinked red since June 1998, with a brief exception from Nov. 9, 1998, to Feb. 8, 1999, when the stock market was recovering from last fall's 19 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average and the 30 percent plunge in the Nasdaq composite index from its high.
And if the recent investor moves out of technology and growth stocks result in a broadening rally in the stock market, some strategists will become more confident about the outlook, despite record high valuations.
Thomas McManus, the equity strategist at NationsBanc Montgomery Securities, predicts that a good first quarter will just spur analysts to increase their earnings expectations more for the rest of the year.
The actual rate of earnings growth is not that important, he said. Instead, it's the ratio of positive surprises to negative surprises that matters, he said, "because a surprise in earnings is what drives analysts to revise their expectations upward and that, in turn, can help drive the stock higher."
According to First Call, the earnings estimates for the paper and aluminum industries have already been revised upward. International Paper is now expected to report 1999 earnings of $1.03 a share, up 23 percent from the estimate before the company released its first-quarter earnings.
Mr. McManus and Mr. Cliggott of J. P. Morgan also tend to ignore the overall earnings growth for the S.& P. 500. They consider it misleading because the index is weighted in favor of big names, like Microsoft, General Electric and Exxon. And the earnings performance of these few companies can overshadow the general trend.
For example, overall S.& P. reported earnings rose 9.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 1998 from a year earlier. But when calculating the average by giving each company the same weighting, earnings fell 2.5 percent, according to Bloomberg News, indicating that many more companies had earnings declines. (Reported earnings are the actual profits reported. Operating earnings, which most market strategists and analysts use, strip out one-time charges and other factors that may distort the longer-term trend in a company's earnings.)
So far this year, more companies are healthier financially, according to Bloomberg. Reported earnings for the first quarter are up 5.5 percent when weighting each company in the S.& P. equally and 17.4 percent when favoring the returns from the big stocks.
The one caveat, of course, is that the improving earnings picture is based on an economy that keeps humming. If growth is so strong that inflationary pressures build, the Federal Reserve may have to rein in the economy by raising short-term interest rates, a move that almost always punishes stocks.
Mitchell J. Held, the co-manager of United States economics at Salomon Smith Barney, is not worried about the Fed raising rates this year. But he says a rate increase could come next year. And if it does, he said, "that is when the market gets hit, and the higher the valuation, the sharper the fall." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FIRST CALL CORP (83%); INTEL CORP (81%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); DEVALUATION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



484 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Unemployment's natural rate may have a mind of its own.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS are compulsive naysayers -- professionally dedicated to tweaking anyone naive enough to overlook the fact that good things have a cost and not all good things are affordable or possible. This spinach-eating mentality partly explains why they failed to predict the relentless good news in the 1990's, during which the growth rate of productivity rose and unemployment and inflation rates fell by half.
That felicitous combination was supposed to be impossible. Driving unemployment down was thought to drive inflation up, and economists ridiculed anyone, especially politicians, who denied the vicious trade-off. By the end of the decade, economists find themselves without an explanation of high productivity or low unemployment, the keys to economic prosperity. 
 A discipline in crisis? Not really. Just because economists, like physicists, do not have a Theory of Everything, that doesn't mean they cannot explain a lot about what has happened in the 1990's -- such as the increasing concentration on unemployment rolls of people who are permanently out of work.
Economies change, with academic theories following close behind. In the 1930's, Keynes taught the profession that Government could spend its way out of a recession. True enough, but the sense that economists could manage endless prosperity did not survive the rising inflation of the 1960's wartime economy. Tight labor markets led to rising wages, which, in turn, led to higher prices. Paul Samuelson and Robert Solow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology taught the profession the logic of the Phillips curve, the inescapable trade-off between unemployment and inflation.
But even that formulation proved overly optimistic. Inflation in the economy, propelled by loose monetary policy, did not just jump to a higher level and stay there. Inflation accelerated, rising to higher rates each year. Economists began to preach a tougher message. There was, alas, no permanent trade-off between inflation and unemployment. If government tried to drive unemployment below its so-called natural rate, it would accelerate inflation, threatening monetary stability and eventually forcing the Federal Reserve to crack down. Enter Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman who broke the back of the 1970's inflation spiral by throwing the economy in deep recession (and throwing President Carter out of office).
Economists forever warn against advice by Pollyannas who urge the Fed to stimulate and then stimulate some more. The natural rate dictates how far the Fed could go in generating jobs. By the end of the 1980's, some economists thought the natural rate hovered around 7 percent. Others argued for 6 or 6.5 percent. Liberals hoped for 5 percent. Almost no one thought it could be any lower.
Until now. Last year joblessness fell to 4.5 percent. Some economists called on the Fed to tighten monetary policy to ward off inflation before it could take hold. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, chose instead to wait for inflation to rise before he cracked down. It did not, so he did not.
Today, unemployment is under 4.5 percent and inflation is falling. Something startling changed from the 1980's. But exactly what?
Prof. Robert J. Gordon of Northwestern University attributes much of the favorable inflation data to special events of no long-term significance -- falling food, oil, import and medical costs.
Profs. Alan Krueger and Robert Shimer of Princeton and Lawrence Katz of Harvard estimate that the natural rate probably fell by about one percentage point, in part because of the aging and growing stability of the labor force and the rising use of temporary workers by employers.
The largely unnoticed lesson of the Katz-Krueger data is that almost the entire drop in unemployment, from around 9 percent early in the decade to under 4.5 percent now, is from the ranks of the short-term unemployed. Students, spouses and laid-off workers find jobs quickly. Those who remain unemployed are people who have a hard time finding work at all, presumably because they have a physical or mental limitation.
This finding colors policy responses. Temporarily unemployed people need job-search assistance. The economically disadvantaged need expensive training and government subsidies.
Professors Solow and Krueger, under the auspices of the Russell Sage Foundation and the Century Foundation, are putting together a team of economists to pursue the unanswered questions. How low is the sustainable rate of unemployment, and can monetary and fiscal policies maintain it or push it even lower?
As for monetary policy, says Prof. Robert Hall of Stanford, "the 1990's have taught central bankers here and abroad that the best policy is to set clear targets for inflation and stick by them." The task is hard because monetary policy operates with long lags. That means the Fed must make predictions about the state of the economy a year into the future. One, but hardly the only, factor in that prediction is where the Fed thinks the unemployment rate is relative to the natural rate.
But with or without knowledge of the elusive natural rate, the Fed can and does make continual assessment of inflationary pressures. Professor Hall argues that if the Fed convinces traders in financial markets that inflation will be low and steady, the economy will gravitate toward the lowest possible unemployment rate.
Smart policy, by this argument, reveals the natural rate. Smart policy does not, Professor Hall says, need prior knowledge of the natural rate. That may be the most optimistic spin on policy making since Keynes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (66%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); PHYSICS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



485 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Accord Comes After Promise of No Meddling

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: ROME, April 21

 BODY:
Two of Europe's largest telecommunications companies, Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Deutsche Telekom A.G., reached a formal agreement tonight to merge in a share swap valued at nearly $82 billion after the Italians obtained assurances that Germany would not interfere in the new combined company's operations.
The merger of the two former state-owned monopolies, which still faces enormous obstacles, would be the biggest ever in Europe and the second-biggest in history behind the $84 billion Exxon-Mobil merger announced last year. 
 The board of Telecom Italia approved the deal after the German Government, which still controls 72 percent of Deutsche Telekom's shares, satisfied demands by Telecom Italia and offered written assurance that it would not seek to influence the new combination's business strategy and management.
The merger, expected since Monday, would be the most far-reaching in a recent wave of giant European combinations, as companies maneuver to meet the challenges of globalization and opening European economies.
Details of the merger were to be announced at a news conference on Thursday in London.
The combined company would be the second-largest telecommunications business in the world, with revenue of $63 billion surpassed only by the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation. It would create the world's largest local phone service provider and one of the biggest mobile phone companies. It would have roughly 240,000 employees and a strong presence in Europe, Asia and Latin America, though not in the United States.
"Scale is the main advantage," said James Thomas, a telecommunications consultant with Arthur Andersen in London. "In principle, it makes sense. It follows the rules of consolidation."
The merger is subject to the approval of shareholders and of Italian, German and European Union regulators. The companies said they would also seek Securities and Exchange Commission approval in the United States, which is required because the companies intend to list shares in the American stock market.
The German and Italian Governments are likely to approve, seeing the deal as necessary in the face of liberalizing telecommunications markets and global competition.
Telecom Italia, in a statement, said the German and Italian companies "intend to integrate their activities giving life to the world's second-largest telecommunication group."
The deal was sought earlier this year be Telecom Italia's tough new chief executive, Franco Bernabe, essentially as a defensive strategy to thwart a $65 billion hostile bid for Telecom Italia by its main domestic rival, Olivetti S.p.A.
Olivetti officials made clear today that they would continue their bid and would seek approval from Italian securities regulators on Thursday for documents to solicit shareholders.
Olivetti has bid 11.50 euros ($12.25) a share in securities and cash for Telecom Italia, versus securities valued at 12.02 euros a share for Telecom Italia in the deal with Deutsche Telekom. But Olivetti officials are hoping that the complexities of the rival bid, its size and regulatory uncertainties will sway investors toward Olivetti.
Telecom Italia's board had tentatively approved the deal on Tuesday night after two days of meetings but made final agreement contingent on a pledge by the German Government, which would control about 45 percent of the combined company, to limit its voting rights. Telecom Italia was taken public last year, though the Italian Government retains a 3.4 percent share.
The Italian demand appeared to have been met earlier today when Germany's Finance Minister, Hans Eichel, in a letter to the Italian Treasury, which controls Rome's stake, expressed support for the merger and said it was the German Government's policy not to interfere in how Deutsche Telekom was run.
That policy, he said, would also apply to the merged company.
Mr. Eichel said Germany intended to proceed with a previously planned sale of Deutsche Telekom shares, though only at a pace that would not upset equity markets.
Telecom Italia said the deal involved an exchange of stock that would give Deutsche Telekom shareholders a share of the combined company for each share they now own, for 57 percent of the total. For Telecom Italia, the exchange ratio is 1 new share for 3 ordinary shares or 5.61 nonvoting shares.
If 90 percent of shareholders accept, the terms are sweetened slightly to a ratio of 1 new share for every 2.9 ordinary Telecom Italia shares,5.5 nonvoting shares or 0.9 Deutsche Telekom share.
Based on Deutsche Telekom's closing price of 36.08 euros today, the deal values Telecom Italia's combined 5.26 billion ordinary shares and 2.17 billion nonvoting shares at $81.8 billion.
The value of the deal does not include the 40 percent of Telecom Italia's mobile phone subsidiary that the Italian company does not own. If the merged company were to buy that as well, the value of the deal would rise substantially.
The shares of the new company would be quoted in Frankfurt, Milan and New York.
Telecom Italia shares have been suspended most of the week on the Milan exchange pending news of the merger, but the company's American depository rights traded on Wall Street have been hurt on investor skepticism that such a deal would work.
Deutsche Telekom has likewise suffered; its price closed down 1.4 percent in Frankfurt today.
The deal will bring together two of Europe's toughest executives. Mr. Bernabe, 50, took over Telecom Italia in a management shake-up late last year, after turning around the big Italian energy group, Eni. Under the merger pact, he would be one of two joint chief executives with Ron Sommer, the 49-year-old Deutsche Telekom chief. Mr. Sommer has been advised by Goldman, Sachs; Telecom Italia's advisers include J. P. Morgan and the Credit Suisse First Boston unit of Credit Suisse Group.
The merger plan, which stresses equality to satisfy Italian political sentiments, despite Deutsche Telekom's larger size, foresees a German corporation with a 10-member supervisory board, to set company policy and appoint management, evenly split among Italian and German representatives. The board's chairman will alternate each year between Germany and Italy.
If it proceeds, and full approval could take months, the deal would have resounding effects through the industry. It was unclear what name the company will bear, though German newspapers have taken to calling it "Telecom Transalpina." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (95%); DTE (BIT) (95%); TIT (BIT) (94%); TI (NYSE) (94%); NTT (NYSE) (67%); NPN (LSE) (67%); 9432 (TSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (DT); TELECOM ITALIA S P A (TI) DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (95%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (94%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (67%); OLIVETTI SPA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (DT); TELECOM ITALIA S P A (TI)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; EUROPE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EURO (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (86%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (85%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (62%); 

PERSON: THOMAS A JAMES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999



486 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 37; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES;
Both Founder Of a Nation And Designer

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan 

 BODY:
In New York, George Washington is more than a household name. Streets, avenues, a park, two bridges and a magnificent marble triumphal arch all bear his name. And this year, the city is marking the bicentennial of his death with exhibitions, books and lectures. New York loves George Washington.
But the feeling was not necessarily reciprocal. As indicated in "Washington's New York," an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York that runs through July 4, New York was a tough town for Washington. He suffered his greatest military defeat in the Revolutionary War here, and in 1783, when the British finally evacuated the city, he promptly left; he gave his famous farewell address to his officers at Samuel Fraunces's tavern and took a ferry to New Jersey, en route to Annapolis to resign his commission. 
 He returned to the city as President in 1789, because New York was the first capital of the United States. That year he contracted what was then called anthrax (an abscess that took three months to heal), and in 1790 he caught pneumonia. In August of that year he left New York, never to return.
As First Lady, Martha Washington held an open house on Friday evenings at the first Presidential mansion, on lower Broadway near Bowling Green, when she and, often, the President would entertain visitors with ice cream and lemonade. The museum show includes a misspelled letter she wrote in October 1789 in which she complained, "I lead a very dull life hear and know nothing that passes in the town."
She continued: "Indeed I think I am more like a state prisoner than anything else. There is certain bounds set for me which I must not depart from -- and as I cannot doe as I like I am obstinate and stay at home a great deal."
"Washington's heart was in Virginia," said Dr. Deborah Dependahl Waters, the curator of decorative arts and manuscripts at the museum, who organized the show.
Washington's spiritual home was always Mount Vernon. And a new book by Allan Greenberg, an architect and architectural historian, explores Washington's passion for his house and analyzes the architecture and landscape of Mount Vernon as one might study a great American antique.
The book, "George Washington Architect," is to be published in June by Andreas Papadakis. (Mr. Greenberg will lecture on his theme as a benefit for the Sir John Soane's Museum Foundation on May 11 in New York. Tickets are $75; reservations: (212) 258-2635.)
"Mount Vernon was Washington's lifelong preoccupation," Mr. Greenberg said in an interview. "The bulk of his correspondence deals with the farm."
In his book, Mr. Greenberg quotes Washington's detailed letters of instruction to his estate managers throughout the Revolutionary War, the Constitutional Convention and his first term of office.
"It is clear from Washington's voluminous correspondence that from the time he took possession of Mount Vernon until his death 45 years later," in 1799, "the condition of the house and surrounding farms was always in the forefront of his mind," Mr. Greenberg writes. "His letters reveal his passionate preoccupation with every aspect of daily life."
In studying Mount Vernon, Mr. Greenberg, who has taught at Yale University's Schools of Architecture and of Law, the University of Pennsylvania and the Department of Historic Preservation at Columbia University, considered form, plan, design and execution.
He argues that Washington deliberately designed Mount Vernon to be asymmetrical in plan and elevation, inside and out. None of the four facades of the estate is symmetrical. The doors and windows, even the cupola, are slightly off center. Similarly, the interior elevations are asymmetrical.
"The circulation through the rooms is deliberately informal," Mr. Greenberg said. "None of the doors line up with each other."
Mr. Greenberg said Washington considered asymmetry "a design theme that unifies the house." As he explained: "Bringing the informality of a vernacular farmhouse into a great mansion was very unusual. Washington was preoccupied with asymmetry in a way that has become important as a model for Americans who built houses in the 19th and 20th centuries."
Indeed, in Mr. Greenberg's view, these designs showed Washington's desire, as an amateur architect, to give the house a distinctly American style. He postulates that Washington's contribution to American architecture, landscape architecture and city planning rivals that of Thomas Jefferson, who is usually seen as the President who had the most influence on American architecture.
When Washington inherited Mount Vernon from the widow of his half-brother Lawrence, it was 1,280 square feet, with four rooms flanking a center hall.
He added two floors and extensions on either side: a large dining room to the north and a study to the south. He put on the 90-foot-long porch overlooking the majestic Potomac River and two open arcades to link the house to the dependencies on either side.
By the time he was finished, the house and outbuildings totaled nearly 20,000 square feet. As Mr. Greenberg writes, "Between 1754, when he first leased Mount Vernon, and his death in 1799, Washington increased the size of the estate from 2,126 acres to more than 8,000 acres, or 12.5 square miles."
He experimented with crops of alfalfa, clover, rye, hops, wheat and vegetables; put in orchards, and raised beef cattle, dairy cows, hogs, sheep, various fowl and horses.
"He considered economic self-sufficiency to be the basis of freedom and prosperity," Mr. Greenberg writes.
The two-story porch, in particular, was a Washington invention.
"It was the first of its kind in domestic architecture that we know of -- anywhere," Mr. Greenberg said. "Before, such a portico would have only been seen on a public building like the Pantheon. At Mount Vernon, the columns are square and paneled, which tells everyone they are wood. Of course, such porches later became the mark of the great Mississippi River plantations."
Mr. Greenberg also describes Washington's decorative elements at Mount Vernon. Instead of Greek gods, lyres, crossed weapons with shields or other symbols of glory, Washington enriched his ceilings with carved rakes and hoes and curling vine motifs.
"Carvers did not use such idiosyncratic themes in plaster decorations," Mr. Greenberg said. "Farm implements on the ceiling of a major house is very unusual."
The leader of the new republic seems to have been looking for an architecture appropriate to the new nation. How could he have predicted that nearly every suburban housing tract in America would have its own Mount Vernon 200 years later? Happy anniversary, George.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A book presents Mount Vernon as George Washington's effort to create a new architecture for a new nation. (Tim Buchman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GEORGE WASHINGTON ARCHITECT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MOUNT VERNON (VA) (HOME OF GEORGE WASHINGTON); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); MOUNTAINS (85%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); VISUAL ARTS (61%); 

PERSON: WASHINGTON, GEORGE (1732-99); MOONAN, WENDY; GREENBERG, ALLAN EDDIE GEORGE (92%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



487 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 34; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW;
Kick Up Your Heels! Housework Can Be A Whole Lot of Fun

BYLINE: By VICKI GOLDBERG

 BODY:
Ralph Bartholomew Jr. united two important inventions of this century: the strobe light and the active American woman. He did not invent either of these but put them together in a winsome photographic way, with the active woman in her unmentionables yet. This ingenious combination is one aspect of Bartholomew's advertising photographs at the Keith De Lellis Gallery uptown.
The strobe, an ultra high-speed electronic flash that could stop such minute actions as a drop of falling milk splashing up in a corona, was invented in the 1930's by Harold Edgerton, an engineering instructor at M.I.T. By the mid 30's Edgerton had perfected a multi-flash technique that could capture every split-second stage in a golfer's swing within a single frame. He showed the world an infinite array of things it had never seen before. 
 As for the active woman, she had begun to step out in the late 19th century, when she occasionally donned bloomers or split skirts to ride a bicycle and scandalize the neighbors. After World War I short skirts, more women in the work force and new mores gave her new freedom, but fashion and photographers would not overly indulge her. Fashion, advertising and Hollywood still photographers preferred languid or static heroines; women could be shown standing with a tennis racket in hand but seldom racing to the net.
The first fashion picture to show what a fashion editor called "a typical American girl in action" was Martin Munkacsi's shot of a woman in a short cape running down a beach, published in Harper's Bazaar in 1933. A spate of fashion photographs of women dashing about in sports clothes followed, and not long after World War II women in fashion magazines and sometimes in ads took to waltzing, sashaying and leaping through the air as if that were the most natural thing in the world.
From the late 1930's to the early 50's Bartholomew (1907-85) was a major advertising photographer as well as a successful editorial and fashion photographer. He learned Edgerton's technique fairly early. In "Retail Fictions: The Commercial Photography of Ralph Bartholomew Jr.," the catalogue for a show of his work at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art last year, Tim B. Wride writes that Bartholomew initially designed and fabricated his own speed-light equipment because, the photographer said, "while some people are afraid of snakes, others have phobias about high places, I'm scared of long exposures."
For a 1939 ad for a household cleanser, he photographed a pretty housewife wearing an apron and moderately high heels and exuberantly leaping off the ground with a can of cleanser in one hand and a saucepan in the other, as happy housewives were no doubt wont to do in 1939. A couple of years later he photographed a woman in mid fall as she slipped on a carpet with an expression of horror worthy of Lucille Ball.
After the war Bartholomew put the multiple-flash technique to work in the service of Playtex underwear; in 1949 this ad campaign won him the top advertising award from the Art Directors Club. Six of the 42 pictures at De Lellis show your typical American girl in action in her bra, girdle and stockings, and a seventh shows her perfectly still from the back, clad only in girdle and shoes and holding a ball above her head as if she were the backside of Roy Lichtenstein's famous painting, copied from an ad, of a young woman on the beach holding up a ball.
In the multiple-strobe pictures the woman is repeated five or six times as she pursues her vigorous existence: bowling, throwing a ball from a kind of sling, climbing stairs, performing a ballet or merely leaping about.
In 1946 Bartholomew took a panoramic shot of a woman skipping rope at 26 almost infinitesimally different moments and printed it as a negative, an elaborately decorative image with a rope tracing elegant, black, calligraphic lines across the surface. This was several years before Edgerton himself took a panoramic picture of a woman skipping rope, but perhaps Edgerton didn't look at lingerie ads and had never seen Bartholomew's, and besides, his rope skipper was fully dressed.
Photographs of (absolutely still) women in corsets and bras had appeared in ads at least since the 1920's, but Bartholomew's pictures were earlier than the "I dreamed I was a lady ambassador," or sailed down the Nile or whatever, "in my Maidenform bra" ads that simultaneously made fun of lingerie advertising and raised the ante on eroticism in advertising. Bartholomew tried to keep it sweet and safe, partly through the realism of hiring ballet dancers rather than professional models, so the movements would be correct.
But the advertisements, meant to say how forgiving the undergarments were, were also advising women that they could be as energetic as they pleased and still be both beautiful and ladylike. Whether it was realistic to picture women bowling and executing jetees in girdles and stockings is another matter, though not altogether impossible.
At the time most proper women wore girdles, and even those as slim as models wore lightweight girdles like those in these pictures, partly to keep their stockings up, partly because God forbid they should jiggle. They were also keeping fashion history intact: one of the lingerie industry's major contributions to the reconfiguring of the female anatomy, along with the waist cincher and the Wonder Bra, was the girdle that guaranteed a monobuttock.
Eastman Kodak was another of Bartholomew's major clients, and for Kodak he created more standard pictures, single images made without strobe, of the happy families and hopelessly normal teen-agers that advertisers in the years right after the war were trying to sell America, which dearly hoped they were true. In his search for an authentic look, Bartholomew used young people who were not professional models.
Youngsters taking pictures of one another were a market Kodak was working hard to cultivate. In a booming economy, adolescents had some money to spend, and camera sales were a growing business. By the late 1940's photography was such a dominant mode of seeing and presentation that one art critic in 1948 complained that furniture was being designed to look good in photos, a style he dubbed "Kodak modern." As for people, selling permanent memories to families had long ago become a growth industry, and many wanted to look like the families that Bartholomew brought to the pages of their magazines.
Bartholomew's ads were white bread, if white bread of a very tasty sort, in keeping with the menu for the day. There was very little ethnic advertising at the time, no broken families, no poor folks, no one who did not revel in housework or gardening or marketing or washing the car, and no one troubled by acne except in ads for products that would clear it up.
Unfortunately the gallery does not display a single magazine showing how the pictures were used in ads or on editorial pages, though advertising photography is a dependent medium that changes when art directors and copywriters get their hands on it. Now that the photography market has absorbed commercial photography, photographs are often diverted from their purpose and exhibited as if they were independent works of art. Some of them unquestionably qualify, and others may pass as cultural history.
In the 1920's and 1930's Edward Steichen used to include some of his commercial work in his art shows, and some advertisers have used photographs that were not originally intended as ads, including work by Ansel Adams and Dorothea Lange.
Bartholomew's advertising photographs come as they are. A picture of a couple as horrified by their flooded basement as they would be to find Dracula in the mudroom could only be an ad, and the same is true of the damsels in their latex undies. Bartholomew, like many advertisers, told the half-naked truth.
 "Retail Stories: Photographs by Ralph Bartholomew Jr." remains at the Keith De Lellis Gallery, 47 East 68th Street, Manhattan, (212) 327-1482, through June 12.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1939 photograph by Ralph Bartholomew Jr. for a household-cleanser ad, at Keith De Lellis. (Keith De Lellis Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S BAZAAR (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ATHLETES (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WORLD WAR I (66%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (60%); CLEANERS (60%); 

PERSON: RALPH BARTHOLOMEW JR (95%); HAROLD EDGERTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



488 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 23; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2225 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 8.
 
Now Playing
 
* "ANALYZE THIS," starring Robert De Niro, Billy Crystal. Lisa Kudrow and Chazz Palminteri. Directed by Harold Ramis (R, 110 minutes). The title, concept and teaming of these co-stars are all funny before the lights go down, so think of this comedy as an offer you can't refuse. Cast as a mobster whose confidence is shaken, Mr. De Niro is hilarious simply by playing his role halfway straight, in classic goodfella style. His mobster finds just the right comic foil in Billy Crystal, as the psychiatrist who utters the immortal: "When I got into family therapy, this wasn't the family I had in mind." There's a lot more where that came from in this breezy comic treat (Janet Maslin). 

* "CENTRAL STATION," starring Fernanda Montenegro, Vinicius de Oliveira and Marilia Pera. Directed by Walter Salles (R, 115 minutes). In this quiet, luminous Brazilian gem, a joyless older woman crosses paths with an orphaned boy. There's plenty of room for sentimentality here, but the wonder of Mr. Salles's film is all in the telling. As these characters develop a fractious bond, then embark on a road trip that takes them vividly to Brazil's hinterlands in search of the boy's father, Mr. Salles brings great tenderness and surprise to the events that punctuate their journey. Ms. Montenegro's tough bravura performance was one of last year's very best (Maslin).
 
* "COOKIE'S FORTUNE," starring Charles S. Dutton, Glenn Close, Patricia Neal, Julianne Moore and Liv Tyler. Directed by Robert Altman (PG-13, 118 minutes). What a treat. The sweet assurance and guerrilla wit of Mr. Altman's vintage ensemble films make a copacetic return with a Southern small-town black comedy. Seamlessly made and completely enveloping, it tells of the machinations set off when a wealthy old woman (Ms. Neal) outrages her diabolically genteel niece (Ms. Close) by committing suicide. As the old woman's dearest friend and the niece's unwitting nemesis, Mr. Dutton is rock solid and appealing. The entire cast works on a single wavelength as Mr. Altman makes the most of a well-woven screenplay by Anne Rapp (Maslin).
 
* "THE DREAMLIFE OF ANGELS," starring Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier. Directed by Erick Zonca (R, 113 minutes; in French with English subtitles). In this very special French film about two freewheeling young women, their turbulent friendship is frayed by sexual passion and economic realities. The weaker and more head-turning of the women (Ms. Regnier) falls for the advances of a rich nightclub owner, while her fiery friend, played with unforgettable immediacy by Ms. Bouchez, rages against what she views as imminent disaster. In the process, Mr. Zonca shows astonishing acuity in observing how the women's diverging values affect every aspect of their lives. A rare and wrenching drama (Maslin).
 
* "EDTV," starring Matthew McConaughey, Ellen DeGeneres, Woody Harrelson, Martin Landau, Jenna Elfman and Rob Reiner. Directed by Ron Howard (PG-13, 120 minutes). In this good-humored, deceptively easygoing satire, Mr. Howard holds up a fun-house mirror to a world ruled by voyeurism and specious fame. The subject matter is familiar by now, but this film about a Trumanesque nobody as 24-hour-a-day television star has a shrewd way of drawing the audience into its web. Permeated by all the crassness and absurdity inherent in celebrity-mad culture, and by our collective obsession with snoopy trivia, it features a fine ensemble cast and a dependably jokey screenplay by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel. It helps that most of the principals, in a cast that also includes Elizabeth Hurley, have played this game for real and act their roles with a comic vengeance (Maslin).
 
"ELIZABETH," the Oscar winner for best makeup. Starring Cate Blanchett, Joseph Fiennes, Geoffrey Rush and Christopher Eccleston. Directed by Shekhar Kapur (R, 124 minutes). In this lurid costume drama depicting Elizabeth I as a royal rookie, the impressive Ms. Blanchett plays the Queen as if her principal responsibilities were being bejeweled, selecting consorts and saying "Leave us!" with a wave of the hand. For all its putative concern with Roman Catholic-Protestant strife at the start of Elizabeth's reign, this is historical drama for those whose idea of history is back issues of Vogue. Intent on spectacle, complete with burning at the stake and one dance scene reminiscent of "Saturday Night Fever," it winds up imagining the Queen as a glamorously stressed-out modern woman afflicted by a super-intense case of having it all (Maslin).
 
"GO," starring Sarah Polley, Katie Holmes, Timothy Olyphant, Taye Diggs, William Fichtner, Scott Wolf and Jay Mohr. Directed by Doug Liman (R, 100 minutes). This three-episode demimondaine comedy borrows truckloads of inspiration from "Pulp Fiction" but still has some flash and personality of its own. Mr. Liman, who shot the film as well as directed it, uses a supermarket as ground zero and sends a sullen cashier (Ms. Polley) out to make a drug deal. Then he embellishes this situation fully enough to send his film down the rabbit hole into neo-Tarantino adventures, some of which (guys go to Las Vegas, then get into trouble with strippers, gunplay, car theft and a brake-screeching chase) are a lot more tired than others. The ensemble cast shows cool comic flair (Maslin).
 
* "GODS AND MONSTERS," the Oscar winner for best adapted screenplay. Starring Ian McKellen and Brendan Fraser. Directed by Bill Condon (not rated, 105 minutes). In a performance that well deserves to be remembered, Mr. McKellen becomes the deliciously urbane James Whale, depicting the gay "Frankenstein" director late in life. Shaken by the aftereffects of a mild stroke, this Whale finds his past coming back to greet him just as the present offers new fascination in the Adonis-like form of the gardener (Mr. Fraser, also fine), whom Whale finds mowing his lawn. This beautifully acted, witty and heart-tugging film, from a Christopher Bram book, imagines what Whale's final days might have been like while shaping a splendid character study and a droll portrait of closeted gay Hollywood. Lynn Redgrave provides ballast and comic relief as Whale's perpetually scandalized housekeeper (Maslin).
 
* "HIDEOUS KINKY," starring Kate Winslet. Directed by Gillies MacKinnon (R, 99 minutes). Ms. Winslet knew best when she took on this offbeat, richly atmospheric adventure in the wake of "Titanic." The leading role in Mr. MacKinnon's vividly colorful film offers her a field day. She plays a young hippie mother who brings her reluctant English daughters to Marrakech, circa 1972. The film, about the mother's willfulness, the girls' reaction and the sheer headiness of their surroundings, belongs to the striking sub-genre in which it is baby-boom adults, not their children, who most need to come of age (Maslin).
 
"LIFE," starring Eddie Murphy, Martin Lawrence, Rick James and Ned Beatty. Directed by Ted Demme (R, 105 minutes). Though it's hard to miss the basic unfunniness of seeing two black men sentenced to life at a Mississippi State Prison, this mild-mannered comedy is more likable than it sounds. If it awkwardly straddles the line between period piece (it begins during Prohibition) and comedy, it also keeps the stars kidding their way from youth to curmudgeonhood. Mr. Murphy in particular gives a more substantial performance than might be expected here. Stick around for closing out-takes that show (for instance) a cell phone ringing during a scene set in 1932 (Maslin).
 
"THE MATRIX," starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss. Directed by Andy and Larry Wachowski (R, 120 minutes). The time-traveling story steeped in virtual reality will be all but incomprehensible to non-technofreaks. And the film borrows unapologetically from other sci-fi extravaganzas, with a big debt to "The X-Files" in the paranoia department. But the storytelling is intricately bizarre and the special effects are indeed special, notably when it comes to midair martial arts with a gravity-defying gusto. And Mr. Reeves shows that you can look like a Prada model while behaving like an action hero. One of the main stars here is Bill Pope, an inventive cinematographer. He and the Wachowskis provide a couch-potato epiphany: while the characters seem to be performing marvelous feats, they're often lying stock-still in the grip of virtual reality (Maslin).
 
* "SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE" (the Oscar winner for best film, best original screenplay, best art direction, best costumes and best comedy score). Starring Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth Paltrow (the best-actress winner), Geoffrey Rush, Ben Affleck and Judi Dench (best supporting actress). Directed by John Madden (R, 113 minutes). A witty, sexy and merrily literate delight, with an exhilaratingly clever premise that only gets better as the film unfolds. The screenplay, originating as Marc Norman's brainstorm and turned by Tom Stoppard into razor-sharp dialogue reminiscent of his "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead," dares to imagine whatever it likes about the link between Shakespeare's artistic passions and his mad yearning for a certain aristocratic beauty. Meanwhile, this tirelessly inventive comedy envisions an Elizabethan theater fraught with the same backbiting and conniving we enjoy today and has great fun presenting the creation of "Romeo and Juliet," glitches and all. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Paltrow make a fine, tempestuous duo, and she gives the first great, fully realized starring performance of her career (Maslin).
 
"SLC PUNK!," starring Matthew Lillard and Michael Goorjian. Directed by James Merendino (R, 97 minutes). Maybe only real experience as an alienated teen-ager in Salt Lake City in 1985 could have led a filmmaker to such a (perhaps deservedly) overlooked time and place. But Mr. Merendino supplies enough absurdist humor to make sense of the setting. His film follows Stevo (Mr. Lillard), the kind of anarchist who likes making rules, and whose rebel streak is about as authentic as his blue hair. As the rare punk who may be headed for Harvard Law School without even trying, Stevo is glib but entertaining. For all the film's appealing outlandishness, it's finally as mainstream as its hero proves to be (Maslin).
 
* "A WALK ON THE MOON," starring Diane Lane, Viggo Mortensen, Liev Schreiber, Tovah Feldshuh and Anna Paquin. Directed by Tony Goldwyn (R, 107 minutes). This evocative 1969 period piece, set on the brink of Woodstock in a Catskills holiday camp, is as seductive as the handsome, itinerant hippie who turns its heroine's life upside down. Thoughtfully conceived and movingly acted, it sweeps a housewife and mother named Pearl Kantrowitz (Ms. Lane) into a torrid extramarital romance and then weighs the consequences. With a tenderness that's unusual for a contemporary American film, it tells an enveloping tale enhanced by artfully selected Woodstock-era music. Mr. Mortensen may strain credulity as the foxiest blouse salesman in the Catskills, but he certainly does wonders for the movie (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
ALFRED HITCHCOCK CELEBRATIONS. Alfred Hitchcock's birthday doesn't arrive until Aug. 13, but that isn't stopping anyone from celebrating the centennial of the master of suspense (1899-1980). The tributes are already in progress. At the Museum of Modern Art, "Alfred Hitchcock," with more than 50 features, shorts and documentaries, as well as an exhibition of posters, photographs and papers, is trumpeted as the most comprehensive Hitchcock film retrospective ever mounted in the United States. And in conjunction with the film retrospective, the Museum of Television and Radio is presenting "Hitchcock by Hitchcock: A Centennial Salute," a complete retrospective of the 20 television films he directed between 1955 and 1962, along with some rarely seen interviews and a documentary on Hitchcock by Richard Schickel. At the Museum of Modern Art, this weekend's attractions include the director's first sound film, which was also Britain's first talkie: "Blackmail" (1929). The film (with Hitchcock's first cameo appearance) was released in silent and sound versions. The sound version will be shown at 6 P.M. today, followed by the silent version at 8; and sound and silent versions will be shown consecutively beginning at 1:30 P.M. on Sunday. Continuing through June 13 at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53d Street, Manhattan, the series "Alfred Hitchcock" is free with museum admission: $9.50 for adults, $6.50 for students and people 65 or older; free for visitors under 16 accompanied by an adult. Pay what you wish on Fridays from 4:30 to 8:30 P.M. Screening information: (212) 708-9400. Continuing through June 6 at the Museum of Television and Radio, 25 West 52d Street, Manhattan, the series "Hitchcock by Hitchcock" is free with museum admission: $6 for adults, $4 for students and people 65 or older and $3 for children under 13. Information and screening schedule: (212) 621-6800 (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kidding their way from youth to curmudgeonhood: Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence in "Life." (Bruce McBroom/Universal Pictures); On the road to Morocco: Kate Winslet plays a willful hippie mom in the film "Hideous Kinky." (Sophie Baker/Stratosphere Entertainment)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); MOROCCO (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); MOROCCO (72%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); FAMILY (73%); WOMEN (73%); ORPHANS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (79%); ROBERT DE NIRO (78%); EDDIE MURPHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



489 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 25; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2604 words

HEADLINE: POP AND JAZZ GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy pop and jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert.
 
ALL AND LAGWAGON, Tramps, 51 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 544-1666. Back in the 1980's, when most of the members of All were in the Descendents, they were already meshing punk drive with pop tunefulness. All, formed in 1987, hasn't given up on the idea, even as youthful punk tantrums have begun to share space with admissions of love. Lagwagon, a newer band, chops up its pop tunes a little bit more, but the same impulses -- frustration, scorn, humor, hormones -- propel the songs. With Latex Generation and Wretch Like Me opening. Tomorrow at 8 P.M.; admission is $10 (Jon Pareles).
 
TIM BERNE AND BLOODCOUNT, Knitting Factory, Old Office, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006. Mr. Berne, who plays alto and baritone saxophones, has led excellent and influential bands for 15 years. He takes composition seriously -- he's got a passion for odd rhythmic cycles and multiple, intertwining voices -- but this group, with the reed player Chris Speed, bassist Michael Formanek and drummer Jim Black, has the unfussy strength of a good old blowing band. The thrills are in the long haul. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 and 9:30; admission is $10 with a one-drink minimum (Ben Ratliff). 

* ROB BROWN QUARTET, Brecht Forum, 122 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-4201. Rob Brown, an alto saxophonist, writes music with sharp angles; if you're attracted to peering over the precipice into jazz with free tonality but still like to hear it played with definition and clarity, Mr. Brown is your man. One of the best players in New York's free-music scene since the late 1980's, he chooses his spots to holler and to be graceful; there's a precise mind at work in his music. Opening for Mr. Brown is a trio led by the drummer Whit Dickey, with Mr. Brown on saxophone and Chris Lightcap on bass. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $10 (Ratliff).
 
GEORGE COLEMAN QUARTET/GEORGE COLLIGAN TRIO, Flushing Town Hall, 137-35 Northern Boulevard, Flushing, Queens, (718) 463-7700. The loose-limbed charms of Mr. Coleman's band may come at the expense of dynamics. But the tenor saxophonist and the pianist Harold Mabern, who both come from Memphis and share a nearly 50-year history in jazz, like to please themselves generously; they play with a good dollop of personality. Mr. Colligan, a pianist, opens the show. Tonight at 7:30 and 9:30; $20 general admission, $17 the elderly and students (Ratliff).
 
THE CREATURES, Irving Plaza, 15th Street and Irving Place, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800. The Creatures are Siouxsie Sioux and her one remaining Banshee, the drummer Budgie, who is also her husband. Although they broke up the Banshees in 1995 to avoid being a nostalgia act, they hold on to the old goth-rock tone of knowing, unflinching fascination with bad news. Her voice, with its moans and glottal stops and electric-eel vibrato, now hovers over a beat that mixes muscle and electronics. Tonight at 9 with KHZ opening; tickets are $22 (Pareles).
 
D GENERATION, Coney Island High, 15 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 674-7959. Glam rock, that pungent brew of high fashion, low morals and gender-bending outrageousness, has always found its earthiest practitioners on the streets of New York. This East Village-based band of veteran club punks carries the torch once held by the New York Dolls and points it toward the millennium. With "Helpless," a catchy new generational anthem based on the immortal rock-and-roll lyric "Na na na na na" getting radio airplay, D Gen could finally be headed for its 15 minutes. Whether or not, the singer Jesse Malin and his boys will never abandon their rule of St. Marks Place. Tomorrow night at 9, with Thin Lizard Dawn, Shiny Mama and others opening; admission is $12 (Ann Powers).
 
DANIELSON AND EDITH FROST, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111. Danielson sings about Christian faith and the vagaries of the flesh in songs that are proud to sound both arty and amateurish. Edith Frost is a disciple of Neil Young, seeking the kind of simplicity that sounds like a direct confession of painful secrets. Tomorrow night at 9; admission is $10 (Pareles).
 
LOU DONALDSON, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037 When Mr. Donaldson sings that his woman likes whisky so much she puts it on her cornflakes, it becomes clear that be-bop and vaudeville can coexist freely. And when he solos, using his alto saxophone, it's equally clear that be-bop is a language in which real improvisation can flourish. So Mr. Donaldson is deep in the American tradition of entertainers who come with technique. Shows through Sunday are at 9:30 and 11:30 P.M. and 1 A.M., with no third set on Sunday. There is a $20 cover ($15 Sunday) and a $10 minimum (Peter Watrous).
 
CANO ESTREMERA, Copacabana, 617 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 582-2672. The singer came to prominence as the front man for Bobby Valentine's group, one of Puerto Rico's best salsa orchestras. Mr. Estremera is among the island's best improvisers, and when he gets going he can take a tune and work it for half an hour, improvising on New York, the women in the audience, whatever catches his attention. He's a master. Shows tonight start at 11; the cover is $15 for men and $10 for women; $5 before 9 P.M. (Watrous).
 
* FAIRFIELD FOUR, Bottom Line, 15 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 228-7880 or (212) 228-6300. The Fairfield Four is a traditional a cappella gospel group that dates back originally to the 1920's. It's based on old-fashioned quartet style -- although it currently includes seven members -- that's no stranger to secular audiences after backing up such singers as Lyle Lovett. The call and response between the group's driving chordal harmonies and its gruff or soaring lead vocals testify to the power of faith and long years of teamwork. Tonight at 7:30 and 10:30, with Tommy Castro opening; tickets are $17.50 (Pareles).
 
* LEE HAZLEWOOD TRIBUTE, Fez, inside Time Cafe, 380 Lafayette Street, at Great Jones Street, East Village, (212) 533-2680. Lee Hazlewood, a scratchy-voiced songwriter with a calmly jaundiced worldview and a penchant for bleak story songs, reached his pop peak when he collaborated with Nancy Sinatra to produce "Some Velvet Morning" and "These Boots Are Made For Walkin'." By then, he already had a long, checkered resume as a producer and songwriter, with a catalogue of songs that stretches back to the 1950's. The pop archivists at the Loser's Lounge have dug some of them out, just in time to coincide with the first reissues of Mr. Hazlewood's albums from the 1960's and 70's. Tomorrow at 7 and 10 P.M.; admission is $15 (Pareles).
 
FREDDIE HUBBARD, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080. What lessons Mr. Hubbard dispenses, not all of them musical. One of the grand trumpeters to arrive in the 1950's -- and one of the few to move easily between jazz camps from the avant-garde to fusion -- he was an improviser who helped define the synthetic quality of music in the 60's. His problems are public, and it's best to check with the club to find out if he's shown up for his show, before opening the taxi door. Shows through Saturday are at 9 and 11 P.M.; the cover is $20 and the minimum is $10 (Watrous).
 
KITARO, Town Hall, 123 West 43d Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824. With grandiose synthesizer chords and touches of Asian exotica, Kitaro proves that the West has no monopoly on somber kitsch. Tonight at 8; tickets are $32.50 and $50 (Pareles).
 
MYRA MELFORD TRIO, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503. Ms. Melford, a pianist, plays shifting mixtures of rhythm and blues, modern classical music, Indian music and jazz; her episodic pieces are tightly written and composerly. She'll be playing piano and harmonium alongside the bassist Stomu Takeishi and the drummer Kenny Wolleson; sets are tonight at 9 and 10:30, and admission is $10 (Ratliff).
 
* JOE MORRIS AND WILLIAM PARKER, Brecht Forum, 122 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-4201. The electric guitarist and bassist, appearing together as a duo only for the fourth time, both use the threshing-machine esthetic of free jazz, in which they try to fold as much music as they're hearing into one small space; but with the clean tone of a standard guitar-bass jazz duo, they'll find their way to a subdued beauty as well. Opening the show is a duo of the fearsomely expressive Boston-based violinist Mat Maneri and the drummer Randy Peterson. The concert is tonight at 8; tickets are $10 (Ratliff).
 
DANILO PEREZ, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592. He's one of the reigning new pianists in jazz, furiously talented and virtuosic. And Mr. Perez is at an important nexus: he's as adept in the jazz world of swing as he is in the Afro-Latin world, an extremely rare thing. Beyond his considerable improvisational talents, he's also a formidable formalist, and his tunes, with their cuing system and improvised form, allow for group improvisation. He'll be taking jazz into the 21st century. Mr. Perez will be joined by the Cuban trumpeter Arturo Sandoval, who is also virtuosic and let's you know all about it, too. The sets through Sunday are at 9 and 11:30 P.M.; the cover is $30 and there is a $5 minimum (Watrous).
 
* PINETOP PERKINS, Chicago Blues, 73 Eighth Avenue, below 14th Street, West Village, (212) 924-9755. Pinetop Perkins was the longtime pianist in Muddy Waters's Chicago blues band. He has the entire blues vocabulary in his fingers, from boogie and shuffle bass lines to florid barrelhouse trills and filigrees. But he plays his solos like a card sharp who only shows what he needs to, and his ruthless economy translates into pithy, ornery blues. Tonight and tomorrow, with sets at 9:30 and 11 P.M. and 12:30 A.M. Admission is $15 (Pareles).
 
* REICH REMIXED LIVE, Irving Plaza, 15th Street and Irving Place, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800. Repetition and layering, polyrhythm and new patterns emerging from complexity -- these are methods and ideas that dance-music disk jockeys and programmers share with the great Minimalist composer Steve Reich, even though he had his short fling with tape loops long before some of them were born. An album, "Reich Remixed" (Nonesuch), set loose dance remixers including Coldcut, Mantronik, D. J. Spooky, Andrea Parker and Takamura on Reich compositions; at this event, they'll play full-length sets that expand on their remixes from the album. The chamber group Bang on a Can will play a complete Reich composition. Tomorrow at 9 P.M.; tickets are $20 in advance, $25 tomorrow (Pareles).
 
PETE (EL CONDE) RODRIGUEZ, Copacabana, 617 West 57th Street, Clinton, (212) 582-2672. Mr. Rodriguez, as the lead singer for Johnny Pacheco's band and on his own, helped construct the sound of Fania Records, the label that basically constructed the sound of salsa in New York. He's heavily indebted to Cuban music from the 1950's, and he's a fine improviser who knows how to lead a rocking dance band. It's hard-core salsa, with little use for the prettified music that now makes it on the radio. He'll be joined by Maelo, the son of Ismael Rivera, and Luisito Carrion, another good singer from Puerto Rico. Shows tomorrow night start at 11; the cover is $20 for men and $15 for women; $10 between 10 and 11 P.M. (Watrous).
 
RZA, Tramps, 51 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 544-1666. Robert (RZA) Diggs, the producer who organized the Wu-Tang Clan, had to let loose one more persona: Bobby Digital, a masked superhero and ladies' man raised on comic books and blaxploitation films. Bobby is the alter ego who represents some of RZA's lower impulses. Although the album, "RZA as Bobby Digital in Stereo," was a disappointment, his live versions of the songs could be something else entirely. Tonight at 9, with the remarkable human beat-box Rahzel and Dynasty opening; admission is $20 (Pareles).
 
JIMMY SCOTT, Iridium, 48 West 63d Street, Manhattan, (212) 582-2121. The singer of sepulchral jazz songs keeps rolling along, with the cracks and crevices in his voice either becoming more authentic or more disturbing, depending on your point of view. He's got a new record on an independent label ("Holdin' Back the Years," on Artists Only!), and he's still mixing contemporary pop songs, most recently by Prince and Elvis Costello, into his list of standards. Sets through Sunday are at 8:45 and 10:45 P.M.; possible third set on Friday and Saturday. The cover is $25, with a $10 minimum (Ratliff).
 
P. F. SLOAN, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 798-0406, and Coney Island High, 15 St. Marks Place, East Village (212) 674-7959. From out of the mists of the 1960's comes P. F. Sloan, who made surf music with the Fantastic Baggies, produced hits for the Turtles and wrote the magniloquent, all-purpose folk-rock protest song "Eve of Destruction." Tonight at 8:30 at Maxwell's; admission is $10. Tomorrow at 10 P.M. at Coney Island High, sharing the bill with Amy Rigby at 9 P.M., who applies the lessons of country-rock to the disappointments of adulthood; admission is $8 (Pareles).
 
10,000 MANIACS, Bottom Line, 15 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 228-7880 or (212) 228-6300. Before Natalie Merchant took over 10,000 Maniacs, John Lombardi was the band's main songwriter. Now that she has left, he has returned, along with the singer, violinist and lyricist Mary Ramsey, to preserve the band's old combination of folk-rock and oblique lyrics. Tomorrow at 7:30 and 10:30 P.M., with Too Cynical to Cry opening; tickets are $20 (Pareles).
 
BOBBY WATSON, Sweet Basil, 88 Seventh Avenue South, above Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 242-1785. Mr. Watson has been a fixture on the jazz scene in New York since his day with Art Blakey in the 1970's. Recently his playing has a sparseness to it that's new, and he imbues everything he plays with the sweet bitterness of the blues. He has in his band the pianist Orrin Evans, who works with his own sound and rhythms; he's another young gifted pianist arriving at his own conclusions. . Shows through Sunday are at 9 and 11 P.M. and 12:30 A.M.; the cover is $20 and the minimum is $10 (Watrous).
 
* DAR WILLIAMS, Pratt Institute, Memorial Hall, 200 Willoughby Avenue, at Hall Street, Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, (718) 636-3422. Joan Baez loves Dar Williams's songs, which applies the style of 1960's coffeehouse folkies to the ever more complicated 90's. With meticulous imagery and forthright melodies, Ms. Williams examines tangled loves and friendships along with the mixed blessings of adulthood. This concert is the end of a minitour down the Hudson River that benefits the Nature Conservancy and the Clearwater Foundation. Sunday at 8 P.M. Admission is $15 (Pareles).
 
* KELLY WILLIS, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700. Kelly Willis has the voice of a heartbroken honky-tonker, sliding and quivering as she seeks "comfort for my shaken soul." After three albums for MCA Records, she broke away from mainstream Nashville to work with alternative-country types from the Jayhawks and Son Volt. She writes many of her own songs, pondering roots and wondering why she's still a fool for love. Tonight and tomorrow at 9 P.M., with her husband, Bruce Robison, opening. Admission is $10(Pareles).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert (RZA) Diggs will perform at Tramps tonight at 9. (Rahav Segev); Lou Donaldson is playing at the Village Vanguard this weekend. (Jack Vartoogian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK DOLLS (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



490 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: P.& G. Profit Up 8.2% in Quarter

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, April 22

 BODY:
The Procter & Gamble Company, the nation's largest maker of household products, said today that its third-quarter profit rose 8.2 percent but warned that continued slow sales abroad would hold fourth-quarter profit below forecasts.
Net income at P.& G., the maker of Tide detergent, Folgers coffee and Crest toothpaste, rose to $1.04 billion, or 72 cents a diluted share, compared with $961 million, or 65 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Analysts expected the company to earn 70 cents a share, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. 
 Results overseas were hurt by recessions in Russia and Brazil and slower growth in China. The company, which gets half its sales outside the United States, said slumping sales in those markets would also cut into fourth-quarter sales and profit.
Revenue rose 3.9 percent, to $9.23 billion, because of higher prices and its new products. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (95%); PG (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (95%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (51%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (PG) PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (95%); FIRST CALL CORP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (PG)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); OHIO, USA (51%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



491 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
World Trade Study Says Export Growth May Slow Further

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 22

 BODY:
The rate of growth in world merchandise exports fell to 3.5 percent last year, only one-third of its 1997 growth rate of 10.5 percent, mainly because of the Asian economic crisis, the World Trade Organization said here today.
The organization said in an annual appraisal of global trade trends that export growth could slow further in 1999, depending largely on what happens in the United States, the strongest industrial nation. Many expect American growth to slow later this year, which could reduce exports to United States markets. 
 The study said that part of 1998's decline in export growth reflected lower commodity prices, including a 30 percent drop in the price of oil. Other commodity prices fell 20 percent in 1998, said Patrick Low, the World Trade Organization's chief economist.
The report said 1998 was the first time since World War II that commodity exports represented less than 20 percent of all exports. Many developing countries are still highly dependent on the exports of commodities, including food, and a continuing drop in world prices of raw commodities has widened the disparity between rich and poor nations.
Trade performance in 1998 varied widely among regions. Exports increased 3 percent from North America, while imports there rose 10.5 percent. Increases up to 10 percent in exports and imports were recorded in Latin America and some Eastern European countries.
Western Europe was the only region where the growth rate in imports did not fall from a year earlier. It remained at 7.5 percent.
Imports into Asian countries fell over all by 8.5 percent last year, and by double that in the once-booming economies of Hong Kong, Malaysia, South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.
Mr. Low said at a news conference that signs of improvement in Asian economies could mean that exports to Asia increase in 1999. "But if we see too sharp a slowdown in the United States and Western Europe," he said, "then this will definitely threaten to swamp whatever happens in Asia."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S.-China Talks Resume
 BEIJING, April 22 (AP) -- Senior Chinese and American negotiators resumed talks here today on China's bid to join the World Trade Organization.
Robert Cassidy, an assistant United States trade representative, and Long Yongtu, China's top negotiator on W.T.O. entry, held a half-hour meeting early today and a longer negotiating session in the afternoon.
The meetings revived talks between the two countries on China's protracted effort to become a member of the organization that sets global commerce rules. During the visit to the United States of Prime Minister Zhu Rongji a couple of weeks ago, he and President Clinton agreed to reconvene the discussions after Mr. Clinton had rejected Chinese trade concessions as insufficient.
The official New China News Agency said today that negotiators needed to resolve differences over tariffs on industrial goods, legal terms for admission to the trade group and China's commitment to open financial, insurance and telecommunications markets to foreign businesses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (75%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (50%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (75%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION EXPORT TRADE (96%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); WORLD WAR II (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



492 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Intel Planning Big Move Into Internet Services

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation, the leading maker of microchips, said yesterday that it was planning a big move into the Internet services business by building and running data centers around the world.
The move is a striking departure for the big microprocessor producer, known for pumping out millions of silicon Pentium chips that serve as the electronic brains of most personal computers. Analysts say the Intel announcement reflects just how far the company is willing to go in seeking new ways to grow as it recognizes the Internet as both a challenge and an opportunity. 
 "This is a stretch, but you have to give Intel's management credit for recognizing that the world is rapidly changing around them and trying to do something about it," said Drew Peck, a managing director of S. G. Cowen & Company, a securities firm.
Sprawling installations filled with powerful small computers, known as server farms, are used to handle electronic commerce and host the World Wide Web sites for other companies. Intel presented its plans for the data farms at a meeting with securities analysts yesterday in New York.
Though Intel's profits have held up well so far, many analysts believe that the rise of the Internet will inevitably erode its margins. Consumers are increasingly expected to use simpler, lower-cost devices -- from hand-held machines to television set-top boxes -- to gain access to the Internet.
The proliferation of these so-called Internet appliances, they note, will not replace personal computers by any means. But the Internet will fuel more diverse computing technologies and other access devices. This in turn will undermine the profits of the technology standard-bearers in the PC-centric era, that is, Intel and the Microsoft Corporation, whose Windows operating system runs most PC's.
"Intel has to look for other opportunities for future growth and server farms could be a reasonably good hybrid," Mr. Peck said.
Other analysts are quite skeptical. They say Intel is a late entrant into the fast-growing market for server farms, trailing established computer services powerhouses like the International Business Machines Corporation and Web hosting specialists like Exodus Communications Inc.
These analysts also doubt that Intel's skills as a chip maker give it any edge in running huge data centers. "This is not a business for Intel to be in," said Howard Anderson, managing director of the Yankee Group, a research company in Boston.
Intel insists that the server-farm plan fits neatly with its long-term strategy. "We want to be the building block supplier to the Internet economy," said Craig R. Barrett, the president of Intel. "And as part of that plan, we are going to make substantial investments to set up server farms around the world."
Intel already has a pilot operation in Santa Clara, Calif., equipped with a few hundred server computers, powered by Intel microprocessors. By the third quarter of this year, Intel intends to have its first data center with more than 2,000 Intel-based PC servers running, catering to customers including Excite, the Web directory service.
Soon after, the company plans to begin a network of data centers worldwide to host Web sites and handle electronic commerce for businesses. These huge computer farms, Intel says, are expected to cost more than $100 million each and be crammed with more than 5,000 servers.
Intel views the server farms as "bit factories," said Gerry Parker, an executive vice president. The expertise the company has developed in planning, building and managing chip factories, he said, should translate well. "A lot of the same skills are involved," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (INTC) INTEL CORP (98%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (65%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (63%); SG COWEN (56%); YANKEE GROUP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP (INTC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



493 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Responsibility in East Timor

 BODY:
Deadly violence returned to East Timor last week, and militias backed by Indonesia's army are clearly to blame. Their goal is to thwart a plan by Indonesia's President, B. J. Habibie, to let Timor's people choose between autonomy and independence. A tentative cease-fire signed Tuesday is encouraging, but not enough. The United States and other countries must insist that Mr. Habibie disarm and disband the militias.
Indonesia's 1976 annexation of the former Portuguese colony of East Timor has never been recognized by the outside world or accepted by Timor's people. Mr. Habibie wisely recognized that an Indonesia struggling to recover from economic collapse and moving toward democratic elections would be better off letting East Timor go its own way. Indonesia and Portugal are negotiating arrangements for a vote on autonomy. If the Timorese vote no, Indonesia would concede independence. But this solution could fall apart if Jakarta fails to stop the militias, which have acted with the blessing of local army and police commanders. Washington must warn Indonesia that international loans could be suspended unless it acts. 
 The autonomy talks should also be completed quickly so that U.N. monitors can be sent. These are critical days for East Timor. A strong international message to Jakarta can make a difference. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (95%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMOR-LESTE (95%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (78%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); FOREIGN LENDING (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



494 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan View on Wider Use of Dollar

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, joined the Clinton Administration today in saying the United States would be open to proposals from other countries that want to adopt the dollar as their national currency.
But in testimony before a Congressional committee, Mr. Greenspan and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, warned countries that might be contemplating such a step that monetary union with the United States could never be a substitute for pursuing sound policies to strengthen their economies and financial systems. 
 Presenting a united view on the topic, Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Summers also emphasized that the United States would not change its monetary policy to deal with economic problems in other nations using the dollar or serve as a lender of last resort to their banks.
A number of countries have been considering abandoning their national currencies and adopting the American dollar -- the accepted international benchmark of financial stability -- as a way of reducing interest rates, inflation and exchange-rate volatility.
The discussions have been most serious in Argentina, which has already held informal talks about the possibility with the Treasury and the Federal Reserve. The issue is also being openly debated in Mexico and, to a lesser extent, in Canada.
The idea has got increasing attention following Europe's decision to create a common currency, the euro, a step that is expected to increase the European Union's growth prospects and competitiveness in the long run. Some economists say making the dollar the common currency of the Americas could greatly expand trade and help the United States by creating more stable and vibrant markets for its goods among its neighbors.
Mr. Summers said the Administration's position on another country's desire to adopt the dollar would depend on the country and the circumstances. "But it is absolutely not our intent to close the door on the consideration of this issue by countries who have that interest," Mr. Summers said.
Other countries would not have to seek permission from the United States to use the dollar as their legal tender. Several countries, including Panama, already use the dollar as their official currency, and the dollar is widely used on an unofficial basis in many other nations, from Russia to the Philippines and Bolivia. So strong is foreign demand for dollars that roughly two-thirds of all American currency is in circulation outside the United States.
But because of the stakes involved, the big countries weighing the possibility of dollarization have signaled that they would only take such a step in coordination with the United States. Among other things, countries would need large quantities of cash from the United States during any changeover.
Speaking before two subcommittees of the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan said that in recent years some small countries with generally sound economic policies had found themselves buffeted by global forces. Those countries, he said, probably would have fared better had they "locked themselves into a currency of one of the more stable, larger countries" like the United States.
But Mr. Greenspan said adopting the dollar would not help another country unless that country was also willing to develop a well-regulated, well-capitalized financial system, keep a lid on budget deficits and avoid running up big foreign debts.
"It is very important for us to be certain that dollarization as we view it is not some means to bypass the types of policies that are required to create stability," Mr. Greenspan said. A country that adopts the dollar without pursuing sound policies generally, he said, "will find within a reasonably short time that it will fail, and that in the process of failure, they almost surely will be worse off than they were without it."
Dollarization is a component of a broader debate over how developing nations can best manage their currencies and foreign-exchange systems in a world where rapid flows of capital can knock all but the mightiest of economies off track.
At meetings next week, financial officials from the leading industrial nations and delegates to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank will consider how to respond to the global financial turmoil of the last two years.
Exchange-rate systems are at the top of the agenda, with many countries having come to the conclusion that developing economies need to choose between two options at opposite ends of the spectrum of possibilities: allowing their currencies to float freely in value, or irrevocably fixing the value at a certain level.
Replacing a national currency with the dollar is in effect the most dramatic and unambiguous way of freezing that currency's value irrevocably. Such a move would effectively eliminate the exchange-rate fluctuations that can bedevil borrowers and exporters in a developing nation, since the dollar is the benchmark against which other currencies are usually valued.
It would all but eliminate inflation, since the money supply would be controlled not by the nation's central bank but by the Federal Reserve. And because exchange-rate and inflation risks would be substantially reduced, interest rates within the nation adopting the dollar would probably come down.
But in adopting the dollar, a country would give up control of its own monetary policy, reducing its ability to cope with any ups and downs in its economy.
It would be restricted in its ability to deal with a banking crisis, since it could not inject money into the financial system. And it would give up what economists call "seigniorage," the interest payments it receives from holding foreign currency reserves in the form of United States Treasury bonds, for example.
Many economists favor dollarization as a realistic way to help bring stability to emerging economies, especially in Latin America. Before joining the Clinton Administration, Mr. Summers was an enthusiastic proponent of dollarization.
But the issues involved are not just economic. Giving up a national currency -- even a troubled or weak currency -- is a major political decision in any country, and involves a substantial ceding of sovereignty. And Mr. Summers and Mr. Greenspan discussed in their testimony today the possibility that a dollarized nation that hits a rough economic patch will likely attribute its problems to the United States, creating diplomatic issues as well.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Deputy Treasury Secretary, Lawrence Summers, left, and Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testifying yesterday before Congress on the dollarization of foreign countries. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CURRENCIES (93%); EURO (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



495 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Ralph J. Perk, 85, a Republican Who Led Cleveland in the 1970's

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE

 BODY:
Ralph J. Perk, the hard-luck Mayor of Cleveland whose misfortunes included accidentally setting his own hair on fire at a ceremonial appearance, died on Wednesday at the Cleveland Clinic Hospice unit of the Corinthian Skilled Nursing Center in Westlake, Ohio. He was 85.
Mr. Perk, a Republican, was Mayor from 1972 to 1977. 
 A native of Cleveland, he was also self-made. He dropped out of high school, managed to get some college education and peddled ice in the Depression. He benefited from enthusiastic backing of blue-collar voters in being elected a Cleveland Councilman and, later, Mayor.
But even The Cleveland Plain Dealer acknowledged that he was "probably best remembered nationally as the Mayor with the flaming hair, whose wife preferred bowling to dining at the White House."
It was in 1972 that, as R. W. Apple Jr. has written in The New York Times, Mayor Perk, "at a ceremony designed to demonstrate his solidarity with the city's working men, somehow managed to set his hair alight with a blowtorch." He was wielding it to sever a steel ribbon and thereby formally open a convention of the American Society of Metals.
Some months later, President Richard M. Nixon invited Mr. Perk and his wife, the former Lucille Gagliardi, to a dinner at the White House. But Mrs. Perk sent word that she could not attend because it was her night to go bowling.
Mr. Perk campaigned for election as Mayor on an anti-tax platform. After taking office, he oversaw the borrowing of nearly $130 million to pay the bills of the city, whose manufacturing industries were battered by recession in the 1970's.
He also reduced the work hours and pay of the city's employees
In 1978, not long after Mr. Perk left office, Cleveland, with Mayor Dennis J. Kucinich in charge, defaulted on its financial obligations.
Mr. Perk lost to John Glenn, a Democrat, in a Senate race in 1974.
He is survived by his wife, Lucille, whom he married 59 years ago; a daughter, Virginia Bowers of Cleveland; six sons, Ralph Jr., a municipal court judge in Cleveland; Thomas, a Councilman in Valley View, a suburb of Cleveland; Kenneth, a member of the Valley View school board; Michael, of Cleveland, an employee of the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections; Richard, of Rocky River, west of Cleveland, an employee of the Ohio Lottery Commission, and Allen, of Gahanna, near Columbus; two brothers, Albert and George, both of Cleveland; 16 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph J. Perk (Associated Press, 1973)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (96%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND CLINIC HOSPICE (73%); WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); OHIO, USA (96%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); HOSPICE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (72%); MEN (72%); JUDGES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); LOTTERIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



496 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Strong I.B.M. Report Helps Propel Dow to Another High

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
I.B.M.'s strong profit report helped propel the stock market to another big advance yesterday as large growth stocks, which had fallen out of favor as perhaps too expensive just a couple of weeks ago, continued to rebound.
The rally, which brought another record for the Dow Jones industrial average, came despite a slump in the bond market that raised interest rates along a broad front. 
 I.B.M. was the star performer after reporting a 42 percent rise in first-quarter earnings on Wednesday, climbing 22 5/8, to 194 1/2. It accounted for 105 of the 145.76-point gain in the Dow, which finished up 1.4 percent, to 10,727.18. Even lacking I.B.M., the Nasdaq composite index did twice as well, advancing 72.53 points, or 2.91 percent, to 2,561.61. The index is now just 37 points shy of its all-time high.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 22.70 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,358.82 also a record.
Analysts pointed to several more reports of surprisingly good earnings besides I.B.M.'s as the main impetus for the market's third consecutive advance after Monday's swoon.
"It's a continuation of some really impressive earnings, definitely better than the Street was expecting," said Warren Epstein, head trader at Richard Rosenblatt & Company. "There's a tremendous amount of buying momentum."
Combined volume on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq was more than two billion shares.
According to I.B.E.S, which tracks analysts' profit estimates, the quarter ended in March appears to have been the best for positive earnings surprises in 11 years. Many analysts cut projections last autumn on spreading economic turmoil overseas.
And more companies reported today, bringing the season's total to about 50 percent of the S.& P. 500. Among them were Lucent, up 2 5/8, to 61 3/4; American Express, up 2 5/16 , to 137 3/16 ; Chevron, up 2 1/8, to 98 1/2; Nokia, up 2 9/16 , to 81 3/16 , and Quaker Oats, up 4 1/4, to 67 3/16 .
Some, however, slumped after disclosing results. Procter & Gamble declined 4 13/16 , to 94 1/8; Black & Decker dropped 4 7/16 , to 5 41/16 , and McDonald's fell 11/16 , to 44 11/16 .
Charles Schwab, which rose 2 13/16 , to 120 13/16 , announced a 2-for-1 stock split, its seventh since the brokerage firm went public in 1987. The previous split, which was 3 for 1, was in December. Sara Lee, which warned analysts to expect lower profit growth and was downgraded by Merrill Lynch, fell 1 1/8, to 24. After the market closed, the company said it was bidding $10.50 a share for Chock Full o' Nuts which had risen 3/8, to 6 3/8. Chock Full responded by calling the offer "inadequate."
Computer and other technology issues, benefiting from I.B.M. fallout, turned in another strong performance, with Amazon.com climbing 10 13/16 , to 190 1/16 ; America Online up 5 15/16 , to 148 11/16 ; Microsoft rising 2 15/16 , to 84 15/16 , and Yahoo up 9 1/8, to 184.
Timothy M. Ghriskey, a value-oriented portfolio manager at the Dreyfus Corporation, expressed hope that the market's sudden mid-April lurch toward cyclical and smaller stocks would resume, but he was unwilling to predict this.
"The market is so dominated by megacap growth stocks, and I don't think they'll be abandoned so quickly," he said.
A total of 928 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange as 1,705 stocks advanced and 1,307 declined and new 52-week highs outnumbered new lows by 65 to 28.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasuries Fall Sharply
 (By Bloomberg News)
 The stock market rally reduced demand for less-risky Treasury debt yesterday, pushing bond prices to their worst decline in more than seven weeks.
"The bond market's taking its cue from the stock market," said Scott Grannis, who helps manage about $50 billion at Western Asset Management in Pasadena, Calif.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 1/32 , to 94 31/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, climbed to 5.60 percent from 5.53 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a one-day cash-management bill:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.987
Investment rate . . . 4.76%
High rate . . . 4.51%
Low rate . . . 4.25%
Median rate . . . 4.45%
Total applied for . . . $35,895,000
Accepted . . . $8,020,000
Noncompetitive . . . -0-
 
The one-day cash-management bills mature today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since April 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



497 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DIPLOMACY;
Russian Ends Peace Visit; Slight Signs Of Progress

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 22

 BODY:
President Slobodan Milosevic spent nine hours today with a Russian peace envoy but appeared to give very little ground.
The Russian envoy, former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, left Belgrade late tonight saying that Mr. Milosevic had agreed to an "international presence in Kosovo under United Nations auspices," to implement any political settlement. 
 But Mr. Milosevic has agreed to such a United Nations presence before, and details were scarce tonight, including the key point of whether international participants would be armed, and if so, under whose control.
"What kind of international forces they will be, or from which countries -- this is yet to be discussed," Mr. Chernomyrdin said at the Belgrade airport before leaving here. "But the main thing is that Russia will take part in them."
NATO insists on an armed "international security force" with NATO troops as its core, so it is highly unlikely that Mr. Chernomyrdin has made enough progress to change NATO's plans to continue the bombing. Mr. Milosevic continues to insist that NATO stop bombing first, before any talks proceed on a Kosovo settlement, and he has refused to withdraw all Serbian security forces from the province.
Mr. Chernomyrdin described his long session with Mr. Milosevic as important progress, but initial Western reactions were dubious.
President Clinton, responding at a Washington news conference on the eve of NATO's 50th anniversary summit meeting, said: "If there is an offer for a genuine security force, that's the first time Mr. Milosevic has done that, and that represents, I suppose, some step forward."
British officials said it was too early to judge the outcome, but emphasized that NATO's demands included issues like the safe return of all ethnic Albanian refugees and the ability for international investigators to pursue allegations of Serbian war crimes in Kosovo.
Washington is hoping that the Russians can mediate this conflict, but they have limited influence over the Serbs.
While Mr. Milosevic spent hours with Mr. Chernomyrdin, it is not clear he liked what he heard. State television gave the Chernomyrdin visit very little airtime late in the broadcast, a sharp contrast to the lavish treatment given the visit April 14 of the Belarussian leader, Aleksandr Lukashenko.
Then, Mr. Lukashenko said at a joint appearance with Mr. Milosevic that Belgrade would accept unarmed civilian monitors from non-NATO countries in Kosovo under a United Nations mandate.
Earlier, Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Milosevic signed a joint declaration calling for an end to the air strikes, the safe return of refugees to Kosovo, a possible reduction of Yugoslav troops and police but also for a withdrawal of NATO troops from the borders of Yugoslavia.
Mr. Chernomyrdin said relief agencies should be allowed to carry out work in Kosovo, economic aid should be offered to Yugoslavia and talks on broad autonomy should continue.
Mr. Chernomyrdin, appointed Russia's special Balkan envoy last week by President Boris N. Yeltsin, came with specific proposals that included some form of armed international presence in Kosovo, but one that would be agreeable to all sides.
His trip came one month after a mission led by the Russian Prime Minister, Yevgeni M. Primakov, ended in failure. Unlike the visit to Belgrade by Mr. Primakov and a delegation of military and intelligence officials days after the bombing began, Mr. Chernomyrdin's visit was designed to elicit some concessions from Mr. Milosevic.
"The goal of Primakov's mission was to show an effort, but he was fully aware of the impossibility of achieving any results," said a Western diplomat based in Moscow. "Mr. Chernomyrdin has no need to repeat that effort. He needs to bring home something."
Mr. Chernomyrdin has already moved away from a one-sided condemnation of NATO's bombing campaign, calling yesterday for an end as well to "ethnic cleansing and separatism" in Kosovo.
Mr. Chernomyrdin spent two days this week consulting with the leaders of Georgia, Azerbaijan and Ukraine, seeking support close to home.
The war is growing increasingly costly for Yugoslavia. Milan Komnenic, the Information Minister, said today that 517 civilians, including 13 children, have been killed in the bombing campaign.
He said that more than 4,000 civilians were seriously injured since the start of the strikes on March 24.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ALBANIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); ALBANIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); REFUGEES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); WAR CRIMES (62%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



498 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Secrets of the War

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
The train pulls in and the refugees are herded out. Then they are sold to waiting merchants, into slavery.
Slavery, not forced labor or some such euphemism. Slavery, do you hear -- branded, flogged, raped, tortured into renouncing their religion, and then put to work for their owners. 
 They were captured and sold in Sudan by government soldiers and militias. Relatives who escaped capture starve; the regime will not allow food to reach them.
A friend asks why, after writing often about human rights, I oppose the war against Serbia, ruled by a dictator. I do not put dictators into two groups -- one to oppose, the other to strengthen because they are customers. The one word for Slobodan Milosevic and all dictators, whatever their religion or country, is: killer.
I oppose the war because it has been mismanaged, misplanned, politically, diplomatically and strategically slovenly and amateurish -- adding up to disaster for the victims. This air war allowed Mr. Milosevic to drive Albanians out of Kosovo. It gave him information that should have been top secret -- that the U.S. would not send in ground forces.
The only way it has helped human rights is to make more disgusting the icy Western attitude to other huge human rights crimes, as the massacres and slave trains in Sudan. They could have been stopped without war.
Now two roads are open to recoup what our leaders lost in Kosovo.
We can send in hundreds of thousands of troops -- without illusion. The dictator will exact as many NATO lives as he can and his goal will be to spread the war throughout the Balkans, and beyond.
Or we can negotiate out. But then we must use the years afterward to strengthen the Serbian democratic-minded opposition against the dictator, with a smidgen of the financial investment of the Kosovo war, and little of Serbian and Kosovar blood.
And without forgetting Yugoslavia, the West could remember that in Asia and Africa are human rights violations amounting to genocide. Even in peace, the West now struggles for human rights only where its trade interests are not risked.
China's President was pleasant in Beijing to America's President about easing the pain of Tibet, 50 years a captive nation. He lied to a man who longed to be lied to.
As crackdowns in Tibet and China increase, and knowledge of Beijing's nuclear-weapon espionage is uncovered, Washington campaigns to give China the economic benefits of the World Trade Organization.
Unsaid is that Beijing's membership would formally wipe out any effort to use the only human rights tools we have in China. Those tools are linking trade with easing persecution and warning allies we will exact economic reprisal if they then double-cross us by sopping up our China trade. We would rank people as important as bananas.
We ignore Sudan. Why? Oh, come on. For 16 years, the ruling Arabs of the north have been at war against southern Sudanese, mostly Christian or animists, and all, you know, black.
We could help the victims by positioning monitoring stations in the territory they still control, sending food directly to them, overflying the government blockade, by treating Khartoum as an enemy economically, and its prey as an ally.
American moral honor is upheld by some among us -- the students working on the Campaign of Conscience for Sudan, the Center for Religious Freedom of Freedom House, and a few legislators.
This capsule comes from Senator Sam Brownback, Kansas Republican: More southern Sudanese have died from guns, bombs and starvation than all the victims in Bosnia, Kosovo and Rwanda combined -- at least 1.9 million. About 2.6 million face starvation because of genocidal withholding of food, and 4.3 million were driven from their homes -- the largest displaced population in the world.
Elie Wiesel, supportive of NATO in Kosovo, asked President Clinton publicly why we had not been involved in Rwanda. Mr. Clinton said he would do his best to make sure there was not another Rwanda.
Sudan had slipped his mind. So has his overdue obligation to appoint Presidential members of the commission against religious persecution, passed by Congress.
Slaves. The number in Sudan can roughly be estimated -- tens of thousands. Only owners take precise slave-counts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); CHINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); TIBET (92%); AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (85%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SUDAN; SERBIA (97%); CHINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); TIBET (92%); AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (85%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SLAVERY SLAVERY (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); STARVATION (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); RELIGION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GENOCIDE (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ESPIONAGE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



499 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.B.M. Lifts Dow to Record As Nasdaq and S.& P. Soar
I.B.M.'s strong profit report helped propel the stock market to another big advance as large growth stocks, which had fallen out of favor as perhaps too expensive just a couple of weeks ago, continued to rebound. 
 The rally brought another record for the Dow Jones industrial average, which rose 145.76 points, or 1.38 percent, to 10,727.18. The Nasdaq composite index did even better, gaining 72.53 points, or 2.91 percent, to 2,561.61, just 37 points shy of its all-time high. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 22.7 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,358.82, also a record. Page C6.
 
Greenspan Backs Wider Dollar Use
In testimony before a Congressional committee, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, presented a united openness to other countries seeking to adopt the dollar as their national currency, but warned that such a move should not replace sound monetary policy. C3.
 
Intel to Expand to the Internet
Intel said it was planning a big move into the Internet services business. The strategy is a striking departure for the maker of Pentium chips that serve as the electronic brains of most personal computers and reflects how far Intel is willing to go to grow. C3.
 
Lazard Settles Municipal Bond Case
Lazard Freres & Company, the Wall Street investment bank, agreed to pay $11 million to settle Federal charges for inflating the prices of Government securities it sold to municipalities. The settlement ends the firm's disastrous foray into municipal finance. C2.
 
Pepsico Earnings Beat Forecasts
Pepsico reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings, but the company's shares fell after its chief financial officer said future earnings might be a little lower than analysts had been led to believe by the company's chairman and chief executive, Roger A. Enrico. Pepsico will spend $75 million to upgrade its computer systems. C6.
 
Profits at Lucent Technologies, the phone-equipment maker, Airtouch Communications, Bell Atlantic and GTE met or surpassed Wall Street expectations. C6.
 
Xerox said first-quarter earnings rose 14 percent, mostly through cost cuts, but its shares fell because revenue did not increase. C4.
 
Coca-Cola Accused of Racial Bias
A group of black employees filed a class-action lawsuit accusing Coca-Cola of discriminating against African-Americans in pay, promotions and performance evaluations. The suit contends that the company pays its average black employee nearly $27,000 a year less than its average white employee and limits black workers' chances for promotion. C3.
 
U.S. Cracks Down on Internet Ads
The Federal Government began cracking down on the deceptive practices of a proliferating number of private investigators who advertise on the Internet that they can inexpensively provide confidential details about bank accounts and telephone records. A14.
 
Profit Declines 54% at RJR Nabisco
In its final quarter as an international tobacco and food company, RJR Nabisco Holdings reported that its first-quarter earnings fell 54 percent because of declining cigarette sales and costs to settle tobacco litigation. C4.
 
Export Growth Plunges to 3.5%
The World Trade Organization said the rate of growth in world merchandise exports fell to 3.5 percent last year -- only one-third of its 1997 growth rate -- mainly because of the Asian economic crisis. It warned that growth could slow further this year. C2.
 
Loss to Gitic Creditors Worsens
In another blow to foreign banks, a Chinese court said that it expected to salvage only $783 million in assets from one of China's largest and most troubled companies, Guangdong International Trust and Investment. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,727.18 up 145.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.60% up 0.07
The Dollar -- 119.52 yen down 0.21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (66%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); INTEL CORP (55%); PEPSICO INC (53%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); DAMAGES (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (71%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); LITIGATION (68%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); RACE & RACISM (63%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (63%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (63%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



500 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Bankers, Too, Chart Internet's Stratosphere

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
The quickest way for a chief executive to bolster his company's stock price, it appears, is to announce a connection to the Internet. In recent weeks, the banking industry has become accustomed to such announcements -- and with the associated stock-trading frenzy.
The stocks of little-known regional financial companies like Florida Banks Inc. of Jacksonville, First Sierra Financial Inc. of Houston and the Patriot Bank of Pottstown, Pa., have jumped as much as 300 percent in a single day after the companies publicized their intentions to provide banking services over the Internet. 
 Investors who bought in before the announcements are mostly sitting on paper profits. Among the buyers have been executives and directors of Florida Banks, First Sierra and Patriot Bank who purchased shares in the four to six weeks before each company announced its Internet plans.
The executives say that while they are enthusiastic about the Internet plans, their recent stock purchases were not timed to take advantage of an Internet premium. And few, if any, of the insiders have cashed in so far by selling stock.
In buying shares shortly before announcing their Internet ventures, however, the executives raise questions that are relevant to a large number of companies today. At a time when any corporate press release with the the word "Internet" in it seems to move stock prices, corporate America might need to take a broader view of what is considered material information to investors.
The Securities and Exchange Commission defines materiality as anything a typical investor would need to know to make an informed decision. Securities laws prohibit people who are in a position of fiduciary responsibility and who have access to material, nonpublic information from trading on that knowledge.
But it is not at all clear whether the executives in these instances ran afoul of those rules. In a legal sense, materiality cannot be judged solely by whether an announcement causes a stock price to move.
Investors, it seems, have quite another view.
The enthusiasm for Internet banking can be linked directly to the stock performance of Net.Bank Inc. and the Telebanc Financial Corporation. These two companies, which say they do all their business in cyberspace without the burden of brick-and-mortar branches, have captured the fancy of investors largely because they have already demonstrated the ability to generate profits.
Telebanc, for example, is expected this year to earn $2.6 million, or 15 cents a share, double its profit last year. Those earnings would be even higher without a huge advertising budget intended to attract customers, said Henry Blodget, who tracks the company for Merrill Lynch and is recommending its shares.
Mr. Blodget says the attraction of Internet-based banks is that they are not limited to serving customers in areas where the bank has branches. Like other Internet service businesses, the banks aim to pass the savings along in the form of higher interest rates on deposits.
The public has enthusiastically responded to the stocks, if not the on-line bank accounts, pushing Telebanc shares up to $104.50 from $34 at the beginning of the year and less than $8 last October. Similarly, Net.Bank shares closed yesterday at $182.4375, up more than 500 percent since the beginning of the year.
It is not surprising, then, that investors seem to have jumped on any bank's decision to reach out over the Internet. On April 13, when Florida Banks announced that it would begin offering Internet banking services in the third quarter, its shares soared from about $8, where they had been trading for most of the previous year, to as high as $37.75, closing at $31.25. They have since declined, closing yesterday at $11.8125, 47 percent higher than before the Internet announcement.
Just three weeks before the announcement, four insiders bought 9,000 shares of Florida Banks at about $7 each. The purchases, totaling $63,500, increased each person's holdings by 1 percent to 20 percent. Though the purchases were relatively small in terms of the company's $63 million market value, they accounted for as much as half of the trading in the stock March 22-24.
Should the insiders have been allowed to buy stock when an announcement about their companies' Internet plans was looming?
T. Edwin Stinson, the chief financial officer of Florida Banks, who was one of four officials who bought shares, said the news was important but not entirely new. Florida Banks' plan for Internet banking was outlined in the company's prospectus for its initial public offering last July, he said.
"We were extremely surprised by the reaction" of the stock, Mr. Stinson said. The main reason the company issued the press release, he said, was because it had signed a final agreement with a service provider that would allow the formal startup of the Internet service, and it wanted to get the news out before discussing it at an investment conference that week.
Florida Banks also draws a strong distinction between its strategy and Telebanc's. "We don't want to service commercial customers that are not in the geographic markets that we are in," Mr. Stinson said. "We didn't imply that we are trying to be an Internet bank."
The stock purchases were made "because the stock was trading below book value," Mr. Stinson said, referring to the net value of the company's assets and liabilities. Some of the company's directors had been lamenting that the shares seemed appreciably cheap, and "none of us benefited at all" since none of the shares have been sold, he added.
Several weeks before First Sierra Financial, an equipment-leasing company, announced that it would establish "the first Internet-based business-to-business bank," its chief executive and a director bought 50,000 and 29,600 shares, respectively, at about $9 each.
The purchases each represented about a day's average volume in the shares, which trade on Nasdaq. After the announcement on April 14, First Sierra's shares jumped as high as $30 and have since settled at $14.50.
Thomas J. Depping, the chief executive, points out that the company's share price had started to move up after First Sierra reported strong first-quarter earnings.
"I've been consistently buying shares since November," shortly after their price fell to $9 from $33 amid a downdraft in speciality finance shares, Mr. Depping said. A large block of stock became available in mid-March, prompting his decision to buy more, he said. The decision "really had very little to do with the fact that we were working on an Internet bank," he added.
Joni S. Naugle, chief operating officer of Patriot Bank, said she, too, was surprised at the market reaction to Patriot's April 12 introduction of "Virtual Access Internet Banking" service.
The company's shares, which had traded around $9.50 for two weeks, jumped as high as $18.75 on the news. Roughly a month before the announcement, Ms. Naugle and another company executive bought 1,000 shares each, while a director bought 7,400. Each paid about $10 a share.
"The purchases were not related at all" to the announcement, Ms. Naugle said. "Insiders have been buying because the stock is on sale," trading roughly at book value, and they did not sell shares when the price jumped. Since then, the price has returned to its previous level, closing yesterday at $10.
That is probably because once investors read Patriot's press release closely, they might have noticed that while Patriot was adding Internet banking services -- including the ability to transfer funds and pay bills on line -- it was not becoming an Internet bank.
Similar services have been offered by big financial institutions like Citibank for more than a decade. But to date, only a small portion of Citibank's customers use the service regularly.
The lesson for investors, of course, is that not all Internet connections are equal.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (83%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (63%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (83%); TD BANK US HOLDING CO (72%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (63%); NETBANK INC (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES BANKING & FINANCE (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INTERNET BANKING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



501 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Stop the Music

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It is said that a camel is a horse designed by a committee. It may not be pretty but it gets the job done, especially in the desert.
By that standard, NATO's air war over Yugoslavia is a military strategy designed by a 19-member alliance. It's also not pretty, but its very weakness could be a strength. 
 Bombing the Serbs from 15,000 feet is the only military strategy that all 19 NATO members, the U.S. Congress and the Russians can agree upon as tolerable in Yugoslavia today. While there are many obvious downsides to war-from-15,000-feet, it does have one great strength -- its sustainability. NATO can carry on this sort of air war for a long, long time. The Serbs need to remember that.
While it is true that NATO will never liberate Kosovo from the air, there is still a chance that this sort of sustained bombardment can achieve our basic objectives -- which are to compel Slobodan Milosevic, either tacitly or by negotiation, to enable the return of the Kosovo Albanians to their homes, with self-rule, protected by an international peacekeeping force that would patrol a fence between Albanians and Serbs.
But if NATO's only strength is that it can bomb forever, then it has to get every ounce out of that. Let's at least have a real air war. The idea that people are still holding rock concerts in Belgrade, or going out for Sunday merry-go-round rides, while their fellow Serbs are "cleansing" Kosovo, is outrageous. It should be lights out in Belgrade: every power grid, water pipe, bridge, road and war-related factory has to be targeted.
Like it or not, we are at war with the Serbian nation (the Serbs certainly think so), and the stakes have to be very clear: Every week you ravage Kosovo is another decade we will set your country back by pulverizing you. You want 1950? We can do 1950. You want 1389? We can do 1389 too. If we can frame the issue that way, Mr. Milosevic will blink, and we may have seen his first flutter yesterday.
Will this strategy halt the barbarism still going on in Kosovo? No. The war to prevent the refugees from being thrown out of Kosovo, or abducted, was lost the first week -- when NATO and the Clinton team bombed the Serbs without having either adequate ground or air power in place to deter them, and without understanding Mr. Milosevic's capabilities or his intentions. That was a strategic blunder for which the Kosovars have paid dearly.
The question now is how best to reverse that, without the U.S. and NATO becoming so enmeshed in the Balkans that it will weaken their ability to operate anywhere else, and strain their cohesion as never before. The only way is a merciless air war.
What about ground troops? NATO should continue planning for a ground war, as the British and French are urging, both because it might influence Mr. Milosevic to blink sooner rather than later, and because it would inject some realism into the debate about this subject. The U.S. public and Congress need to understand just what would be involved in a ground war. Invading Kosovo means owning Kosovo. A ground war would likely require going all the way to Belgrade and end up making both Albania and Macedonia, from which any invasion of Kosovo would be staged, U.S. protectorates.
Be advised, these are weak, tribalized states that can fall apart in our hands. Albania is non-country country. It is a country where police estimate that more than half the cars on the road were stolen from somewhere else in Europe, where everyone has a gun at home and where just two years ago the whole banking system was based on pyramid schemes and three-card monte. The Wall Street Journal recently quoted an unemployed worker in Tirana as saying, "It would be better if Milosevic bombed here, and we could all go as refugees to Italy and Germany."
That is just one reason that, for now, we must stick to a strategy that at least holds out the hope of achieving our objectives without NATO ending up owning the Balkans. Because nothing would do more to sap public support for American internationalism than America's taking over history's oldest hornet's nests.
Give war a chance. Let's see what months of bombing does before we opt for weeks of invasion, where, if we win, we get to occupy the Balkans for years. Let's make Kosovo Mr. Milosevic's Vietnam, not ours. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRY-GO-ROUND ENTERPRISES INC (66%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ALBANIA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); REFUGEES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); POP & ROCK (64%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



502 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
NATO Missiles Strike Targets in Belgrade
NATO knocked Serbian state television off the air in the middle of a newscast early today, leaving the building that housed the state's main propaganda arm in flames, with reports of many casualties. Early the day before, NATO bombed the residence of President President Slobodan Milosevic, an elegant 1936 villa that is the most famous address in Belgrade. A1 

Yugoslavia denounced the strike on Mr. Milosevic's house as an assassination attempt. American and NATO officials denied that the attack was a deliberate attempt to kill Mr. Milosevic, who was not at the house. They asserted that the target was a legitimate assault on the Yugoslav military leadership. A11
 
A White House plan to bring 20,000 Kosovar refugees to the United States will make all of them eligible for permanent legal residence, a senior Administration official said. A1
 
Former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia left Belgrade saying that Mr. Milosevic had agreed to an "international presence in Kosovo under United Nations auspices" to put any political settlement into effect. NATO has been insisting on an armed "international security force" that would have NATO troops as its core. A10
 
President Clinton and NATO leaders, gathering in Washington for a NATO summit, said they would intensify military and economic action against Serbia, and reserved judgment on the Russian proposal. A10
 
Kosovo Update A10
 
Future of Smallpox Cells
President Clinton's decision to retain America's samples of smallpox virus is likely to lead to more scientific cooperation and joint biological research with Russia at a time of badly strained relations, Administration officials said. A3
 
Nuclear Espionage Inquiry
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson is investigating how a computer scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Wen Ho Lee, kept his access to nuclear secrets long after he was suspected of being a spy for China, officials said. A7
 
Human Rights in South Korea
Members of a Korean opposition party accused President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, who has been praised for his struggle for human rights, of using torture and illegal surveillance to suppress his opponents. The accusations were made in Geneva at a meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. A5
 
Rebuke on El Al Crash
A Dutch parliamentary commission criticized both the Dutch Government and the Israeli airline El Al for slow and inadequate responses after the crash of an Israeli cargo plane into an apartment complex near Amsterdam six years ago. Forty-three people were killed. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A14-22
 
Large Bomb Is Found In School's Kitchen
The two students who waged a murderous rampage in Littleton, Colo., were out to destroy Columbine High School, Sheriff John P. Stone said. He reached that conclusion after investigators found a large homemade bomb fashioned from two propane tanks and a gasoline canister in the school kitchen. The discovery heightened belief that the two young men had help from others in planning for their attack, the sheriff said. A1
 
President Clinton puzzled over the causes of school violence and mulled how to prevent it, with two dozen students in Alexandria, Va., as his sounding board. But in the end, he could not guarantee the students the protection that they sought from the kind of fatal chaos that erupted on Tuesday in Littleton. A21
 
Social Security Overhaul Fading
Republican leaders in the House were said to have abandoned the idea of making fundamental changes in Social Security before the next election. The decision comes as top Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee put the final touches on a plan to base the retirement program partly on private investments. A1
 
Warning on Investigations
The Federal Government filed a civil suit against a Colorado business in what officials said was an effort to begin cracking down on the deceptive practices of private investigators who advertise on the Internet that they can inexpensively provide confidential details about bank accounts and telephone records. A14
 
A Missing Link?
Paleontologists digging in Ethiopia have found a skull and other fossils of what they say is a new prehuman species dating to 2.5 million years ago, possibly the long-sought connecting link between apelike ancestors and the human family. A1
 
'Gay Gene' Findings Disputed
Researchers report in the journal Science today that they have been unable to confirm a widely publicized study linking male homosexuality to a small region of one chromosome. A18
 
Lawyers Seek Faster Payment
A group of plaintiffs' lawyers, including some who have been awarded billions in fees for representing states in tobacco lawsuits, are exploring the possibility of having bonds issued so that they can collect their money sooner. A14
 
Teachers Press for Higher Pay
Seattle's 4,000 teachers and classroom assistants shut down the school system by staying away from work in a one-day protest against what they called inadequate pay increases during the last six years. Teachers and staff members in six smaller Washington districts also walked out, joining those in more than 30 other districts around the state who left their jobs in a series of rolling single-day protests over the last week to lobby state legislators for large pay increases. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Giuliani Budget Promotes Tax Cuts and Vouchers
Mayor Giuliani proposed a $35.3 billion spending plan for New York City that emphasized tax cuts, school vouchers and other initiatives favored by the national Republican Party at a time when he has all but declared himself a candidate for the United States Senate. Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council and a Democrat, quickly criticized several aspects of the proposal. B1
 
Apology Accepted
Amy Fisher, left, apologized to Mary Jo Buttafuoco in a Long Island courtroom for shooting her seven years ago, when Ms. Fisher was having a sexual relationship with Mrs. Buttafuoco's husband, Joey. Mrs. Buttafuoco accepted the apology and urged the judge to reduce Ms. Fisher's sentence. The judge agreed and reduced the sentence, making Ms. Fisher eligible for parole. The parole board is scheduled to meet on May 3. Ms. Fisher was originally sentenced to up to 15 years in prison. B1
 
City Rejects Offer on Gardens
A private conservation group, working with a coalition of 25 donors, offered the Giuliani administration $2 million to buy 165 community gardens, most of them set to be auctioned. But City Hall rejected the offer as a bad deal for taxpayers. B3
 
Effort to Stop Patriots' Move
The N.F.L. Commissioner is making a last-ditch effort to persuade Massachusetts to come up with a stadium deal that will keep the New England Patriots from moving to Hartford. B4
 
WEEKEND E1-28; E29-42
 
OBITUARIES A23
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
W.N.B.A. Labor Deal Is Off
The league said a tentative agreement reached with the players' union had fallen apart and that no further talks had been scheduled. It also postponed the draft on Tuesday. D4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
AT&T Makes Cable Offer
AT&T made an unsolicited offer to acquire Mediaone for about $58 billion in cash and stock. It was an effort to to break up Mediaone's planned acquisition by Comcast and to become the largest cable television provider in the United States. C1
 
Details of Big Phone Merger
The chief executives of Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia held a news conference to provide details about their merger. C1
 
Coca-Cola Accused of Bias
A group of black employees filed a class-action suit against Coca-Cola, accusing it of discriminating against African-American workers. C3
 
Farming Out the Dollar
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, joined the Clinton Administration in saying that the United States would be open to proposals from countries that want to adopt the dollar as their national currency. C3
 
Market Gains More Steam
The Dow gained 145.76 points to close at 10,727.18; the Nasdaq advanced 72.53 points, or 2.91 percent, to 2,561.61, and the S.& P. 500 rose 22.7 points, to 1,358.82. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: NATO and a new Europe; challenge for a good-times budget; cleaner air over the parks; Indonesia's responsibility in East Timor.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E42
 
TV Listings E28
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather C17
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (86%); AIRLINES (84%); BOMBINGS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); REFUGEES (69%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); SMALLPOX (64%); VIRUSES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); BILL RICHARDSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



503 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Players and W.N.B.A. Call Off the Agreement

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
The Women's National Basketball Association announced yesterday that the agreement in principle it reached last week with the players union had fallen apart and, as a result, it was postponing next Tuesday's draft.
The breakdown came only nine days after both sides hailed what appeared to be a historic first contract for a women's professional basketball league in the United States. In doing so, the W.N.B.A. and its newly formed players union, which is represented by the National Basketball Players Association, had managed to avoid a labor dispute similar to last year's N.B.A. lockout. 
 "We had hoped to avoid what happened in USA Basketball and the N.B.A.," said Valerie B. Ackerman, president of the W.N.B.A. "For whatever reason, that was not possible. Instead, there is no deal and we have no choice but to postpone the draft indefinitely."
The draft was for teams to select former American Basketball League players and players coming out of college.
In talks late Wednesday night, both sides said, there were disagreements over certain provisions that they had not anticipated during more than two months of bargaining and the final negotiations that led to the deal.
The union said it was under the impression that players from the defunct A.B.L. would not be classified as rookies by the league, but considered as veterans and allowed to negotiate their salaries based on the veterans' scale.
The W.N.B.A. has said that for league purposes, the A.B.L. players, like veterans who have played overseas and joined the league, are considered rookies, and would be paid as such, depending on where they are drafted.
"The word shouldn't be used to describe someone with numerous years of experience," said Edna Campbell, who played for the A.B.L.'s Colorado Xplosion and was invited to last week's W.N.B.A. tryout camp. "I consider that a slight, and I don't think just because they've decided to refer to us as rookies we should be treated as such, especially when it comes to our pay scales."
The union also took issue with the number of appearances players would be required to make during the season. Union officials claimed the two sides settled on a total of 12, but that the league now says the figure applies only to appearances for league sponsors, not community-related appearances for which there was no limit set.
"We thought we engaged in good-faith negotiations and we thought we had a lot more negotiating to do, but the league felt they would not give in on a number of economic issues," said Pamela Wheeler, director of operations for the Women's Basketball Association and one of the union's chief negotiators. "In our mind, this is an attempt to scare and intimidate the players."
According to Bruce Levy, an agent who represents players in both the W.N.B.A. and the former A.B.L., the players thought their preliminary agreement with the league gave them the right to hold out.
"Then they learned that players who had not signed a contract with the league by the beginning of training camp would not be allowed to play for the season," Levy said. "That means that on May 7, the league's lawyers could give us 70 veteran contracts and say, 'if in one week these aren't signed by your clients, your clients are out of the league.' With that kind of threat, how much negotiating can you do?"
Wheeler insisted that a deal could be made with no more than a few hours at the bargaining table, but no new talks were scheduled. Wheeler was returning to Phoenix to prepare for her organization's move to New York, and Billy Hunter, executive director of the players associations, was out of town. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (95%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); USA BASKETBALL (56%); USA BASKETBALL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (95%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); USA BASKETBALL (56%); USA BASKETBALL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASKETBALL (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); 

PERSON: PAMELA WHEELER (76%); BRUCE LEVY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



504 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE WHITE HOUSE;
Birth of Land-Assault Plan Darkens Already Grim Eve of Summit

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
On the eve of the opening of the NATO summit here, President Clinton and NATO leaders vowed to intensify the military and economic punishment of Serbia even as they reserved judgment on a possible peace proposal from Belgrade.
American and NATO war planners in Washington and Brussels began drawing up options for a land assault to drive the forces of President Slobodan Milosevic from the Yugoslav province of Kosovo as alliance leaders gathered in Washington for a suddenly grim commemoration of NATO's 50th birthday. 
 Mr. Clinton, standing in the Rose Garden with Javier Solana, NATO's Secretary General, said that Mr. Milosevic must withdraw his troops from Kosovo "or he can watch as NATO grinds down his war machine, and the Serb people he claims to represent face mounting hardship."
As the summit opens, some difference are clear within an alliance that has struggled to present a unified face. Prime Minister Tony Blair and other British officials, the first arrivals, aggressively pushed a hard line on Kosovo in a series of meetings with President Clinton, members of Congress and business leaders. Mr. Blair has been the most outspoken of the NATO leaders in urging the deployment of ground forces.
Sketchy reports that Mr. Milosevic was willing to accept some form of international monitoring force in Kosovo were called a possible "step forward" by President Clinton at the news conference today. However, those reports left it unclear whether Mr. Milosevic would accept an armed international presence.
As the President spoke this afternoon, NATO warplanes and missiles began a third night of attacks on leadership targets in Serbia. NATO bombs hit Mr. Milosevic's presidential residence and the Government television station in Belgrade.
Yugoslavia denounced the strike as an assassination attempt, which American and NATO officials denied. They portrayed it as a legitimate assault on the military leadership of Yugoslavia, though not on Mr. Milosevic directly, effectively drawing a distinction without making a difference.
Mr. Clinton said that removing Mr. Milosevic from power was not one of the aims of the conflict, and that if Mr. Milosevic withdrew his troops from Kosovo and allowed the peaceful return of the refugees, NATO would wreak no further damage and would not seek to unseat the Yugoslav President.
"Well, we set forth certain conditions, and if he meets those conditions, and the Serbian people are willing to continue him in power, then I could imagine such an outcome," Mr. Clinton said.
The President also endorsed what he called Mr. Solana's decision to study the possible need to introduce ground forces into the Balkans conflict. When asked whether an international security force could be sent into Kosovo without Mr. Milosevic's approval, the President said, "Well, that's a hypothetical question, but of course there are scenarios under which that could occur."
Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the former Russian Prime Minister, said today after meeting with Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade that Mr. Milosevic would be willing to accept an unspecified international "presence" in Kosovo to monitor the return of refugees. The United States and NATO have tried to suggest to the Russians that Russian troops be part of some type of land force there.
Administration and allied officials said tonight that they were skeptical about the Russian-Serbian initiative and that few details were available.
A European official said he thought Belgrade and Moscow might be trying to undercut the summit by offering a vague peace plan just as NATO leaders sat down to map a military campaign.
One senior American official said he suspected the initiative was a propaganda ploy designed to appeal to the Russian people; an American aide said that the proposal had gaps on issues like the size and composition of a peacekeeping force.
But Mr. Clinton did not dismiss the offer out of hand.
Mr. Clinton repeated that such a force could include not only American and NATO troops, but also Russians, Ukrainians and soldiers from other Slavic and Orthodox Christian countries.
"If it is true," Mr. Clinton said of the Milosevic offer, "then it is at least the first acknowledgment by Mr. Milosevic that there will have to be a security force there. But for the security force to work, it will have to have the confidence of the people who live there, and it will have to operate in a way that protects all the people there, including the Serb minority."
The NATO summit was intended to be a celebration of the alliance's victory over Communism and a seminar on its future. Instead, it has become a war council on Kosovo, with all its reminders of the grisly ethnic conflicts that grew into the century's bloodiest wars.
A senior European official said that Mr. Milosevic's apparent willingness to consider an international presence in Kosovo was a sign that he was beginning to crack.
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Blair staked out a hard line as he moved from speech to speech in his first full day here. Addressing about 30 United States Senators, he laid out what one Congressional aide called a "compelling case" for the allied attacks on Yugoslavia.
Alistair Campbell, chief spokesman for the Prime Minister's office, said that Mr. Blair was trying, in his public and private comments, to assure allied unity.
His language has been more forceful than Mr. Clinton's, in part because the President fears alienating an American public that lags behind the British people in support for the Balkan conflict, Mr. Campbell said. But he denied that the British were serving as the stalking horse for the Americans.
And he insisted that the two countries are on the same track on Kosovo. He said that Mr. Blair was determined to use the NATO summit "to send powerful signals to Serbia and rest of world about NATO determination and confidence the air campaign is working."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Blair of Britain, center, flanked yesterday in the Senate by Trent Lott, the majority leader, left, and Tom Daschle, the minority leader. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BELGIUM (58%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ASSASSINATION (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); TONY BLAIR (85%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%); TOM DASCHLE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



505 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE HISTORY;
How the Midwives of NATO Prevailed

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22

 BODY:
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, whose 50th anniversary will be ceremonially commemorated by the leaders of its 19 member nations here this weekend, was the brainchild of a portly, rough-hewn former trade union leader with a grade-school education, the illegitimate son of a serving girl.
His name was Ernest Bevin, and he was Britain's Foreign Secretary. In the anxious early days of 1948, with Czechoslovakia slipping under Communist sway and Berlin blockaded, he feared that the Soviet Union would pick off the nations of Western Europe one by one. 
 Mr. Bevin therefore proposed to the British Cabinet on Jan. 8 "that we should seek to form with the backing of the Americas and the dominions a Western democratic system comprising Scandinavia, the Low Countries, France, Italy, Greece and possibly Portugal. As soon as circumstances permit, we should, of course, wish to include Spain and Germany, without whom no Western system can be complete."
With minor changes, that idea became NATO, the centerpiece of the allied containment policy.
"It was superb idea, and it turned out to be a superb accomplishment," said Lucius D. Battle, now 80, an American diplomat who was present when the treaty establishing the organization was signed on April 4, 1949. "Surprising, in a way. It was not at all clear, and there was by no means universal agreement, that it was the right way to go."
After some initial hesitation, the far-seeing American Secretary of State George C. Marshall, who had served as the nation's military Chief of Staff during World War II, and his discreet, patrician Under Secretary, Robert A. Lovett, came to agree with Mr. Bevin. (At one early stage, Mr. Lovett accused the British of "asking us to pour concrete before we see the blueprints.") They oversaw months of negotiations that produced a draft treaty by Christmastime.
Mr. Marshall's successor, Dean G. Acheson, pushed the talks to a conclusion in 1949 and won Senate approval with the help of Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan, a Republican and former isolationist.
But the real American midwife of the new organization, the first major military alliance the United States had ever joined in peacetime, was a career diplomat named John D. Hickerson. Unknown then and all but forgotten now, Mr. Hickerson, a wry, 50-year-old Texan who had worked his way through the University of Texas at Austin, in part by shining shoes, championed the concept.
Ultimately he persuaded Mr. Marshall, and through him, President Harry S. Truman, of the importance of the principle that became Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty: An armed attack on any of the signing countries would be considered an attack on all.
That, he believed, would provide the tight links between Europe, the United States and Canada that Mr. Bevin sought. For most of the rest of 1948, while President Truman was staging the whirlwind campaign that produced his upset victory in November, Mr. Hickerson and his No. 2 in the State Department's Bureau of European Affairs, Theodore C. Achilles, labored in the shadows with Hume Wrong of Canada and senior European diplomats to pound a treaty into shape.
"They were the valiant workers in the vineyards," said George Elsey, now 81, then an aide to Truman. "They were the ones who put things together."
That it could be done at all was remarkable. It is an iron rule of American politics that lame-duck Presidents take few initiatives. Those they do take almost always misfire. Truman, seen as a sure loser to Thomas E. Dewey, not only laid the groundwork for NATO but also instituted the Marshall Plan.
But those were extraordinary times. The Allies were keeping Berlin alive only with an airlift of unprecedented dimensions. On March 10, 1948, the body of Jan Masaryk, the Czech Foreign Minister, was found on the pavement outside his apartment; it was never established whether he had been killed by the Communists or had committed suicide in political despair. In Asia, Gen. Douglas MacArthur was warning that the imminent victory of Chinese forces "imperiled" the United States. And in Washington, the Red Scare was under way; on Dec. 15, Alger Hiss was indicted for perjury.
Times were hard in Europe. The Washington lawyer Lloyd N. Cutler, then a junior Government official, recalls staying at the grand Claridge hotel in London and shivering because there was no heat. According to his biographer, Alan Bullock, Mr. Bevin was horrified that spring when a French minister told him the Russians would be in Paris by August.
In the United States, the mood was grave but not frantic. "We took the cold war seriously," Mr. Elsey said, "but I would not say there was a sense of crisis -- nothing remotely resembling the feeling later, during the Cuban missile crisis. Like the Marshall Plan, NATO was carefully crafted, by people who didn't let the alarm bells distract them."
Not that everyone agreed that NATO was the right solution. George F. Kennan, then the director of policy planning at the State Department, favored the containment of the Soviet Union. But he saw the problem as basically political, and he warned that the proposed pact "would amount to a final militarization of the present dividing-line through Europe" (which, in the event, it did).
Paul Nitze, who was to be his successor, said last week that NATO "seemed to me at the time an overcommitment on our part." When the Russians soon after announced that they had developed an atomic bomb, "I took a much more radical line," Mr. Nitze, now 92, recalled. "I thought getting rid of our nuclear weapons, unilaterally if necessary, was the best way to go."
The leading American journalist of the day, Walter Lippmann, wanted to neutralize a united Germany, rather than try to ally with the western part of a divided Germany. He argued that Germans would "never align themselves honestly and reliably with one side or the other," and he dismissed NATO as "inflationary paper from the mimeograph machine in the State Department."
But significant as those voices were, the State Department's European desk -- Mr. Hickerson and Mr. Achilles -- "carried the day," said James Chace in his biography, "Acheson" (Simon & Schuster, 1998).
The founding members were the United States, Britain, France, Canada, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Portugal, Iceland, Norway and Denmark.
In April, the treaty was signed in the Departmental Auditorium building, since renamed the Andrew Mellon Auditorium, on Constitution Avenue. Mr. Acheson signed for the United States, Truman at his side. The Marine Band played airs from "Porgy and Bees," rather disconcertingly including "It Ain't Necessarily So" and "I Got Plenty of Nothin'."
"Who in the world picked the music?" Mr. Acheson asked.
The ratification debate was not plenty of nothin'. Robert A. Taft of Ohio, the unofficial leader of the Senate Republicans, opposed the treaty, largely because it would commit the United States to fight alongside any attacked member, robbing Congress of its Constitutional authority to declare war. That, of course, was just what the Europeans wanted.
Mr. Acheson's negotiations, as he wrote in his memoir, "Present at the Creation" (W. W. Norton, 1987), "became a contest between our allies, seeking to impale the Senate on the specific, and the senators, attempting to wriggle free." With Mr. Vandenberg's help, he convinced both groups, and the treaty was resoundingly approved by the Senate, 82 votes to 13, on July 21.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Europe highlights original members of NATO (also U.S. and Canada) those who joined 1952 through 1982 and new members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); GREECE (57%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (77%); GREECE (57%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANNIVERSARIES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); MIDWIVES (65%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: ERNEST BEVIN (86%); HARRY S TRUMAN (71%); JOHN D HICKERSON (63%); GEORGE C MARSHALL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



506 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Budget Proposal Calls for Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani proposed a $35.3 billion spending plan for New York City yesterday, emphasizing tax cuts, school vouchers and other initiatives favored by the national Republican Party at a time when he has all but declared himself a candidate for the United States Senate.
The Mayor stepped up his criticism of the city's public schools, vowing to pursue a voucher program over the objection of Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew and saying the school system "should be blown up." Page B10. 
 But as Mr. Giuliani proclaimed that the city had a record surplus of $2.1 billion, Peter F. Vallone, the Speaker of the City Council, questioned why the Mayor had proposed cutting more than $110 million for libraries, cultural groups, youth services and other programs. He also complained that Mr. Giuliani's tax cuts were insufficient and his voucher plan inappropriate, setting the stage for a battle over how to spend an unusually large pot of money.
"What I see is a great economy, but a budget that does not go far enough," Mr. Vallone said yesterday. "These are not good cuts. These are not good ideas."
Except for $157 million in new tax cuts, Mr. Giuliani's budget plan was almost identical to the one he proposed in January, which called for accelerating a class of 1,500 police recruits and building new schools with the city's anticipated share of the settlement with the tobacco industry.
But while Mr. Giuliani proposed putting $6.15 billion toward school construction in his preliminary budget, he vowed yesterday to withhold the money until the Board of Education presented him with a detailed plan for spending it.
"By law, they were supposed to present us with a plan by March 1," Mr. Giuliani said. "We really need to hold them to a very strict standard."
But the education proposal that drew the most scrutiny yesterday was Mr. Giuliani's plan for an experimental voucher program, which would use millions of tax dollars to send poor children from a single school district to private and parochial schools. The Mayor had originally proposed administering the program through the Board of Education, but Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew protested and even threatened to quit.
So in his budget presentation yesterday, Mr. Giuliani proposed running the program out of City Hall instead, using $12 million from the general budget as "incentive money" for whichever school district volunteers. But Dr. Crew said later in the day that he was still adamantly opposed to the voucher proposal, and he also expressed frustration with the Mayor's plan to withhold the capital funds.
As he has done in recent speeches to Republican audiences around the nation, the Mayor spoke passionately about the need for vouchers, saying the competition they created would force failing schools to improve. "This is where America is going to be five years from now," Mr. Giuliani said. "We've got to open up our thinking and get out of almost the inquisitional mindset that we're in, the box that we're in, and understand this and embrace it."
But Council leaders loudly protested the voucher plan, saying that it probably was unconstitutional and that any education dollars should be invested in the public school system. "My personal position has always been and will remain that until we improve and do what it takes to make our public education system excellent again," Mr. Vallone said, "I am not about to divert any money from it."
The Mayor said he wanted to use most of a $2.1 billion surplus from the current fiscal year to reduce future budget gaps. A large chunk of the surplus -- about $830 million -- would pay for social service, education and public safety programs, including anti-smoking initiatives, the acceleration of the police class and the hiring of 150 new crossing guards. An additional $405 million of the surplus would finance new tax cuts.
Mr. Giuliani, who abandoned his traditional charts yesterday for a high-tech projection screen and laser pointer, used superlative after superlative to describe the effects of his policies on New York City and even on the nation.
The city gained more private-sector jobs in 1998 than in any previous year, he said, and it now has the lowest unemployment rate since 1990. The Mayor, who is highlighting the city's falling crime rate as he tests the waters for a potential Senate race, also said the drop in New York City's murder rate during his first five years in office had been a driving force behind the national drop in crime.
"We are creating the reputation of the state and to some extent, the reputation of the nation in crime reduction," Mr. Giuliani said as he discussed his proposal to accelerate the police class, a plan that the Council has promised to fight.
Critics of the Mayor said his proposals to hire more police officers and experiment with school vouchers suggested that he was more interested in winning national Republican approval than making life more affordable in New York City. Even his tax cuts were not particularly generous, they said.
In particular, critics said that Mr. Giuliani's plan to provide an earned income credit to 600,000 of the city's poorest families was not enough.
The proposed credit, which would cost the city $48 million, would save an average family about $80 per year. But a similar proposal by the Council, which would cost the city $190 million, would save an average family about $360.
"It's a good idea, but the Mayor is doing it on the cheap," said Glenn Pasanen, associate director of City Project, a liberal public-policy organization. "With a $2.1 billion surplus, where is the enhanced quality of life for the people who really need it?"
In addition to the earned income credit, Mr. Giuliani has proposed reducing the city's portion of the sales tax on books by 50 percent, which would cost about $14 million next year in lost tax revenue, and extending a tax relief program for owners of co-ops and condominiums, which would cost $166 million.
Almost all of the Mayor's tax cut proposals would need approval from Albany, and one in particular -- a plan to eliminate the sales tax on clothing and shoes costing more than $110, which would cost the city about $90 million a year -- is unlikely to win legislative support.
Speaker Vallone has proposed his own set of tax cuts worth $700 million, and city officials predicted yesterday that budget negotiations between the Giuliani administration and the Council would focus on which taxes to cut. In particular, the Council wants to eliminate the commercial rent tax, which brings the city more than $400 million a year in revenue.
But Mr. Giuliani would rather dedicate $882 million in commercial rent tax revenue over the next four years to stadium construction, a proposal that Mr. Vallone strongly opposes. Budget negotiations last year broke down over Mr. Giuliani's plan to use tax dollars to build a new Yankee Stadium in Manhattan, and while he has abandoned that plan, stadium construction could become a contentious issue again this year.
Mr. Vallone has said he is not against using tax dollars to build stadiums, but he would rather use revenues from the hotel tax, which are more modest.
Although Mr. Giuliani insisted that spending would decrease by 1.6 percent in the coming fiscal year, independent budget monitors predicted that it would actually increase by almost 5 percent. The city is not projecting a spending increase because under its own accounting rules, the surplus is counted as being spent in the current fiscal year, even though the Mayor is using it to cover next year's anticipated shortfall.
The independent monitors also criticized Mr. Giuliani's use of the surplus to cover the anticipated budget shortfall, saying he should instead use it to reduce debt or pay up front for capital projects. They said that while the city was generally in good fiscal shape, the Mayor should not necessarily be taking credit.
"It's a relatively simple year for balancing the budget, and that's a function of the local economy," said Douglas A. Criscitello, director of the city's Independent Budget Office. "My view is that the Mayor has very little to do with record Wall Street profitability over the last few years."
Mr. Criscitello and other budget monitors warned that if the economy slows down, the city will not have the large surpluses it has come to depend on to fill budget gaps, which they said were largely created by heavy borrowing.
"Debt service will continue to eat up more and more of the city budget," Mr. Criscitello said. "So I would argue that the city's largest fiscal challenges are lurking beyond the next couple of years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In presenting his budget proposal, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani abandoned the use of charts in favor of a projection screen yesterday. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B10)
 
Graphs/Charts: "DOLLARS AND CENTS -- Tax Cuts"
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposed $35.3 billion spending plan for 2000 includes tax cuts. In millions of dollars.
 
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE PROPERTY TAX RELIEF
 
$166 -- Co-op/condo
$ 14 -- Reduction in city mortgage recording tax for first-time buyers
 
SALES TAX REDUCTIONS
 
$ 61 -- Clothing and footwear
$ 48 -- Building materials and construction services
$ 14 -- Books
 
BUSINESS TAX RELIEF
 
$ 45 -- Subchapter S Corporation Tax Relief
$ 21 -- Commercial rent tax reduction
$ 16 -- Repeal of Auto Use Tax and Commercial Motor Vehicle Tax for light trucks and vans
$ 12 -- Other business tax reform
 
(Source: N.Y.C. Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B1)
 
"KEEPING TRACK -- Agency Reductions"
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is proposing these budget cuts in his spending plan for the next fiscal year.
 
$38 million -- Libraries
$23 million -- Cultural institutions and program grants
$20 million -- Youth services
$8.5 million -- Sanitation
$7 million -- Parks
$7 million -- Indigent Defense/Legal Aid
$5.5 million -- Health programs
$1.2 million -- Aging
 
(Source: New York City Office of Management and Budget)(pg. B10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLICE FORCES (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (57%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999



507 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: High Priorities for India

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In "A New Trial for India" (editorial, April 20), you state that "India's challenge is to prevent the present political turbulence from undermining the drive to make peace with its neighbors and among the warring groups within its borders." 
 Such foreign policy initiatives are important.
However, the real failure of India's leaders has been the failure to provide an acceptable standard of living for its people. One hopes that India's leaders will soon realize that the best way to insure their electability is by improving the lives of the people who vote for them. Perhaps education, health care and drinking water may all become a reality for India's impoverished millions.
 
VISWANATH SUBRAMANIAN
Sunnyvale, Calif., April 20, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); LIVING STANDARDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); FOREIGN POLICY (55%); 

PERSON: SUBRAMANIAN, VISWANATH

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



508 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Finish Mixed On Seesaw Day

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury issues were narrowly mixed yesterday as prices spent the session moving in the opposite direction from the stock market.
"The stock market and Treasury market are moving in opposite directions from time to time," Gary Nadich, a fixed-income portfolio manager at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation, said. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 1/32 , to 95. The bond's yield was unchanged at 5.6 percent.
The pattern held throughout the trading session. When stocks were weaker, Treasury prices were higher. Treasuries wiped out those gains when the stock market erased its losses. When stocks turned slightly lower, Treasuries did slightly better.
Mr. Nadich said that in addition to competition from a strong stock market this week, Treasuries came under pressure from the supply of so-called spread product -- corporate, agency and asset-backed debt issues offering higher yields than Treasuries. "The typical Treasury investor is looking at areas offering spread over Treasuries, which include some of the foreign bonds as well," Mr. Nadich said.
Brazil, for example, issued a five-year, $2 billion global bond this week at 675 basis points over the comparable five-year Treasury note. And Freddie Mac sold $3 billion in 10-year reference notes at 123 basis points over Treasuries. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
"When you're in a low-rate environment, when those opportunities for higher yields present themselves, you take advantage of that," Mr. Nadich said.
In the absence of any fresh economic data, comments by Federal Reserve officials attracted some attention but had little effect on prices.
Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, said the economies of United States trading partners would begin to recover in late 1999 or early 2000.
At a Jerome Levy Economics Institute conference in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., a Federal Reserve governor, Edward M. Gramlich, said the potential noninflationary growth rate of the gross domestic product was 2.5 percent to 3 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (65%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



509 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Poverty Vow Wasn't Meant To Go So Far

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
ED PHELAN took a vow of poverty when he joined the Christian Brothers, a Roman Catholic religious order. He is in no danger of breaking that sacred promise. He runs the Highbridge Community Life Center in the Bronx, directing an 80-person staff that provides welfare recipients and high school dropouts with counseling, job training and an education. It's front-line social service work that gives him more psychic income than the green kind would.
In January, he opened a line of credit to sustain successful training programs financed last year through the Federal empowerment zone in the South Bronx. A $494,000 grant for the second year of staff salaries and program costs has been held up, because the empowerment zone board has not met to approve any projects. Brother Ed, whose group trained almost 70 people for jobs as nurse's aides or package deliverers last year, had entered the new year borrowing money and shifting other grants, thinking the money would be approved quickly. But the empowerment zone seems like the Twilight Zone. 
 "There are people on my staff who say, 'Ed, you took a vow of poverty, but I don't have to live it,' " he said. "This has sapped all of my energy trying to find money, worrying about it and trying to keep the message from our staff that it's panicville."
The board was to have met last February, but the meeting was canceled when Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington, who represents the city, asked for more information on zone projects in Harlem. While another meeting is scheduled for next month, Brother Ed has tried without luck to shake loose his group's share of the money a little earlier. He said Mr. Washington has yet to respond to his entreaties.
Payrolls can't wait, and Brother Ed had to take out $230,000 in bank loans at 8 percent interest. Although only six staff members are affected by the impasse in financing, his entire staff may have to take pay cuts to keep the programs running.
"We're going from day to day," Brother Ed said. "We need to bring pressure on Rudy Washington to approve this contract. The city talks about the importance of people getting off public assistance and into jobs. Their delays are killing us."
A spokesman for Mr. Washington did not respond yesterday to a request for comment.
Joe Ithier, the president of the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, and a member of the zone's board, said the Highbridge group was not the only project affected by the delay in convening the board. He said that several businesses that have applied for grants and loans to open up in the zone have had plans stalled.
"They could tell us they're going to Jersey where things move fast," Mr. Ithier said. "The empowerment zone is supposed to cut red tape. What we're doing is adding to it."
Moving anywhere is not an option for Brother Ed. He has stayed in this hilly corner of the Bronx for years, even when some of his friends joked that it seemed the landscape got bleaker the longer he was there. Things have changed.
"A lot of people are working together," Brother Ed said. "It's not about having a lot of awards or nice-looking buildings. It's about the struggle of people. It's about helping."
HE does not want people to get lost in the quagmire over budgets and grants. Every day he sees his neighbors from Highbridge sitting at computers or filing into classrooms ready to learn new skills. Dorenda Gibbons was there last Monday, studying for her high school equivalency diploma. She used to be stuck at home, surviving on welfare and feeling sorry for herself because of chronic bursitis.
"I have to get off public assistance," she said. "I can't take it anymore. If I can get my diploma, I'm good to go."
Nearby, Betty Mitchell was taking a break from her first day of nurse's aide training. She already earned her high school diploma at Highbridge, now she wanted to find a job in a nursing home to help care for the elderly. She got the idea for that recently, when her parents died from cancer months apart.
"Not many people show emotion when they care for old people," she said. "It's just a job to them. I want to make a difference in somebody's life. We're all going to get old. We all need somebody to help us eventually."
Brother Ed nodded. He understood her perfectly well. Especially on payday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HIGHBRIDGE COMMUNITY LIFE CENTER BRONX OVERALL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (61%); HIGHBRIDGE COMMUNITY LIFE CENTER (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIGHBRIDGE COMMUNITY LIFE CENTER HIGHBRIDGE COMMUNITY LIFE CENTER (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; FEDERAL AID (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RELIGION (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; PHELAN, ED (BROTHER); WASHINGTON, RUDY (DEPUTY MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



510 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Soros SaysSale of Debt Means End of World Crisis

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
George Soros, the financier, said yesterday that Brazil's $2 billion note sale showed that the world's financial markets had recovered after their turmoil last year.
"The global financial crisis is now officially over," Mr. Soros said at an investors conference in Manhattan. "So now we can look for the next one." 
 Brazil's sale of five-year notes marked the first time the country tapped international capital markets since last April. The notes were priced on Thursday to yield 11.88 percent, 6.75 percentage points more than United States Treasury securities of comparable maturity.
Demand was strong. Arminio Fraga, the president of the Brazilian central bank, said yesterday that there were more than $6 billion of bids for the $2 billion of five-year notes.
About two-thirds of the notes sold on Thursday went to United States investors, with the rest going to Europe. There was a total of 308 separate accounts, Mr. Fraga, a former aide to Mr. Soros, said at a news conference.
"We were very happy with the $2 billion cash offer," Mr. Fraga said. "It achieved the objectives we set of borrowing to cover both domestic and foreign debt and set a benchmark for foreign issuers."
Mr. Fraga said Brazil planned to sell more debt, but he would not say how much or what terms. "We are putting together a program to better manage our yield curve," he said, referring to Brazilian efforts to sell debt with longer maturities.
The second part of Brazil's debt sale -- an exchange -- closed yesterday. Investors will be able to swap previously issued Brazilian Brady bonds they own for the new five-year notes. Mr. Fraga declined to discuss the results of that sale. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (89%); YIELD CURVE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: SOROS, GEORGE GEORGE SOROS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



511 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Debt-Relief Plan Is Flawed, 5 Nations Say

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
With the number of people living in absolute poverty on under $1 a day likely to reach 1.5 billion next year, five major industrialized powers -- the United States, Canada, France, Germany and Britain -- have acknowledged that a plan devised three years ago to forgive debts of the poorest countries is not working well.
Suggestions these countries have made for improving that plan, the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative, will be discussed at the meeting on Monday of finance ministers from the so-called Group of Seven richest countries, which also includes Italy and Japan. 
 A final decision on ways to change the initiative, first disclosed in October 1996 by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, is expected at the Cologne meeting of heads of government of the Group of Seven in June.
Twenty-nine countries have been classified eligible for relief under the plan because their debts are more than two-and-a-half times export earnings, average incomes are less than $925 a year and they have carried out at least three years of economic changes approved by the I.M.F.
But the debts of only two -- Uganda and Bolivia -- have been reduced. Another five -- Burkina Faso, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Mozambique and Mali -- are likely to receive relief this year.
In a confidential report to member governments earlier this month, the monetary fund acknowledged what it called the shortcomings of the debt-relief initiative, saying it did not adequately lower payments.
"There is a consensus on the need for further steps to relieve debt," Michel Camdessus, the I.M.F. managing director, told a news conference here Wednesday at the spring meeting of the monetary fund and the World Bank. James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, told a news conference Thursday that "we need to do more."
But a clear difference of emphasis emerged between the I.M.F. and World Bank approaches to easing the debt burden of impoverished nations.
Mr. Camdessus said he favored making more countries eligible for relief since this would bring more developing economies under the fund's supervision.
Mr. Wolfensohn, by contrast, presented debt forgiveness as a way to release additional money for fighting poverty, saying the number of people living on less than $1 a day had risen from 1 billion a few years ago to about 1.3 billion today and would probably reach 1.5 billion by 2000.
Mr. Wolfensohn also warned of the rising cost of granting debt relief. The cost of the current system is estimated at $12.5 billion, and is up almost 30 percent from last summer. This is partly because falling commodity prices have reduced the export earnings of many poor countries.
Suggestions on increasing debt relief to be discussed at the Group of Seven meeting Monday involve relaxing the conditions heavily indebted countries must meet before they can receive help. Canada and Britain are the most generous, France the least. Germany has shifted from opposing debt relief to welcoming it following its recent change in government.
But many private humanitarian organizations pressing for debt relief have criticized these suggestions. "They are all inadequate, though Canada's and Britain's are relatively good," said Veena Saddarth, a representative of the Oxfam International aid organization.
"Debt sustainability is still linked to exports, not to development and poverty reduction needs," said the Jubilee 2000 Coalition, an alliance of private aid and church organizations. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (59%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (88%); BURKINA FASO (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); UGANDA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; GROUP OF SEVEN BANK INTERNATIONAL INDONESIA PT (90%); PT BANK INTERNATIONAL INDONESIA TBK (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; GROUP OF SEVEN INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; FRANCE; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (88%); BURKINA FASO (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); UGANDA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); EXTERNAL DEBT (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEBTOR NATIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; CAMDESSUS, MICHEL; WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D JAMES D WOLFENSOHN (67%); MICHEL CAMDESSUS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



512 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Grand Strategy: Round and Round On U.S. Interests;
Kosovo Rekindles a Debate, Dormant for Nearly a Decade, Of America's Global Role

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

 BODY:
The American involvement in Kosovo has started the most furious debate since the end of the cold war over what constitutes United States strategic interests.
Not since the Persian Gulf war in 1991 have foreign policy analysts filled the nation's airwaves, newspapers and policy journals with such passion. "The Kosovo crisis has sharpened and intensified what was a largely theoretical debate within think tanks and seminar rooms," said John J. Mearsheimer, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago. "The $64,000 question is what areas of the world and causes are worth Americans fighting and dying for?" 
 Experts call it "grand strategy." During the cold war, containment was the grand strategy; American policy was based on fighting any expansion of Communism. Yet almost a decade after the collapse of the Soviet Union, there is still no consensus over how this new world should be structured and what role the United States should play in it. If the Kosovo crisis does nothing else, Mr. Mearsheimer and others agree, its resolution will affect whose ideas about United States national interests will prevail.
Charles A. Kupchan, an associate professor at Georgetown University, says the United States has essentially been "running on the fumes of cold war thinking for nearly a decade, tinkering and making adjustments in policies left over from that era."
Yet before strategists could figure out what should take the place of containment, they first had to agree on what the post-cold-war world was shaping up to look like.
Frances Fukuyama first gained attention by declaring we had reached the "end of history." The American victory over Communism would usher in an era of peaceful competition among existing and aspiring democracies, he triumphally predicted. Events quickly overtook his theory, however, prompting Mr. Fukuyama to backtrack on his unbridled optimism.
Next, Prof. Samuel Huntington of Harvard University argued that conflict was inevitable. The next century's fault lines would be along "civilizational" or ethnic and cultural divides, pitting, say, Christian Europe against the Muslim Middle East or the Confucian East. Although Mr. Huntington says the Balkans illustrates his thesis, others disagree. "As Kosovo shows," Mr. Mearsheimer says, "the world is not divided into civilizations. In Kosovo the Christian West is battling Orthodox Christian Serbs on behalf of Muslim Albanians."
Then the "globalizationists" or "mercantilists" came along, people like Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management, who argued that national sovereignty is inevitably -- and happily -- eroded by global economic forces. Ideology is dead. Long live free markets.
Such grand visions of the world are a starting point, but as Mr. Kupchan explains, "they do not give much direction to American grand strategy or foreign policy." It took the crisis in Kosovo to smoke out the new competing foreign policy camps, which can roughly be divided into three groups.
At one end of the spectrum are the "Fortress America" advocates. Think of Patrick J. Buchanan, the television pundit and repeat presidential candidate, who basically says the United States should not get caught up in other countries' messes, whether they're military, economic or political. Richard N. Haass, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, who worked in President George Bush's National Security Council, says the Fortress America contingent has the advantage of being straightforward, relatively consistent and minimalist. "Neo-isolationists believe that the purpose of foreign policy is to have as little of it as possible," he explained. While tragic, this camp argues, the brutal effort to drive Albanian Muslims from Kosovo is not an American problem.
At the opposite end are the "interventionists" or "hegemonists." Philip D. Zelikow, director of the Miller Center of Public Affairs in Charlottesville, Va., and another Bush Administration veteran, however, prefers to call this camp "expansive idealists." They can be either liberal or conservative.
The interventionists have found common intellectual ground in the idea that the United States is the only superpower left standing and simply cannot avoid getting involved. The United States has an obligation to do whatever it takes to create a world where it dominates, the thinking goes. In this view, the United States has a "window of opportunity to shape the world in its image," Fareed Zakaria, the managing editor of Foreign Affairs magazine and a skeptic of this approach, explains.
Interventionists on the right include Robert Kagan and William Kristol, whose prescription for victory in the Balkan war in a recent issue of The Weekly Standard is to "liberate Kosovo and drive Milosevic from power," using ground forces and whatever else to "win it." Defeat or even the perception of defeat must be avoided at all costs. "At stake is the single overriding question of our time," they write. "Will the United States and its allies have the will to shape the world in conformance with our interests and our principles? Or will we allow much of the world to slip into chaos and brutality, to be shaped by men like Milosevic and Saddam Hussein . . . and the dictators in Beijing?"
A similar definition of national interest in the Kosovo conflict comes from liberal or "humanitarian interventionists," who argue that preventing and stopping genocide, "ethnic cleansing" and other gross violations of human rights are in the United States strategic interests. "Humanitarian intervention is a more important challenge than our interventions in Korea or Iraq," argues Leslie H. Gelb, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, "in that it goes to the very heart of who we are and what we think our role in the world is all about."
President Clinton's foreign policy is liberal interventionist, many analysts on the right and left agree. He has also been intent on obtaining cooperation and consent for American policy from the allies. "This Administration is very Bolshevik in its use of force," said Mr. Mearsheimer, in an unusual choice of words. "Air power is their favorite tool and they haven't been reluctant to use it. They've bombed four separate countries."
Mr. Kupchan, a more liberal analyst, concurs: "The Administration has been incredibly lucky in its interventionism until now. There have been American troops everywhere, but except for Somalia, no Americans have died. Clearly that can't last." He and other experts say that Kosovo, particularly the decision on whether to send in NATO ground forces, will test liberal interventionism. "Until now," says Mr. Kupchan, "we've had liberal interventionism on the cheap."
Some critics, like Charles Krauthammer, a conservative columnist, say liberal interventionism will fail the test. In a recent essay in The New Republic, he denounced President Clinton's foreign policy as "hopelessly utopian." Peacekeeping or mending civil wars is not the job for a superpower, he writes. "It is a job for Canada." Forget about multilateral agreements and consensus. A superpower should concern itself with "real" threats, like the aggressive conduct of North Korea, and not worry about what other nations think. In an interview he called liberal interventionism "dangerously ill conceived."
Mr. Krauthammer calls himself a realist; it is a label that the majority of foreign policy experts in this third camp are probably most fond of using (although Mr. Mearsheimer prefers to say that his group favors "offshore balancing," intervening to prevent the emergence of potential competitors). "Most realists are offshore balancers," Mr. Mearsheimer says. "And most of us do not see any such threat emerging as a result of Kosovo."
Mr. Haass, whose book, "Reluctant Sheriff," reflects and promotes "realist" foreign policy thinking, argues that the American role is the "regulation of great power relations," that is, to work out "rules of the road with other major power centers." Building alliances that promote free trade, discourage the use of force and limit the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction all advance American strategic interests.
As for Kosovo, Mr. Haass and other realists tend to be cautious. And they often disagree over whether strategic national interests are at stake. Do American interests justify "such a commitment in blood and treasure"? he recently wrote. The United States must "balance humane impulses with strategic imperatives." Liberating all of Kosovo with military force "is not worth the costs it would entail."
Yet as Kosovo illustrates, defining an American grand strategy or the country's national interest is not necessarily straightforward even if one has a clear notion of how the world should be organized. Regardless of whether Kosovo is worth fighting for, by getting involved, the United States has created a strategic interest there even if one didn't exist before. "Once America stakes its credibility on an issue, it automatically becomes strategic," Mr. Zakaria says. Even those "realists" who disapproved of American involvement in the war against Yugoslavia concede that having made the commitment, the United States must pursue victory with all possible means, including ground troops.
Of course not all self-described realists agree. Henry A. Kissinger, who presided over the Vietnam War, which cost 50,000 American lives, argues against "the proliferation of open-ended American commitments involving the deployment of U.S. forces." He draws the line on sending American ground troops to Kosovo; the Europeans should provide the soldiers.
Until there is more of a consensus over how the United States should respond in this changing world, it may be that the United States grand strategy can best be described as muddling through.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: United States Army troops arriving in Tirana, Albania, this week in support of Apache helicopters that began arriving on Thursday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B11)
 
Drawing (Illustration by John Hovell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE COLD WAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (56%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH JOHN J MEARSHEIMER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



513 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: A Military Alliance, and More

BYLINE: By Tony Blair; Tony Blair is the Prime Minister of Great Britain.

 BODY:
Our common fight in Kosovo will dominate the NATO summit that opened yesterday in Washington. I'm sure that America, Britain and all the other NATO countries will make clear our determination to see this military engagement through to the end. President Slobodan Milosevic should be in no doubt about the alliance's strength, commitment and resolve.
Only NATO has the ability to oppose the Serb campaign of ethnic cleansing -- a sustained campaign of brutality that has turned Kosovo into a slaughterhouse, with Mr. Milosevic's death squads burning, raping and killing. Let us not underrate what we have achieved already. As Gen. Wesley Clark told the summit yesterday, we have destroyed significant parts of the Serbian air defenses and attacked Mr. Milosevic's armed forces. We have severely degraded oil transport and oil refining capabilities and radically reduced the Serbs' industrial and administrative infrastructure. 
 I know that the media discussion has been focusing on the use of ground forces. As I have said repeatedly, the difficulties of a land force invasion of Kosovo, against an undegraded Serb military machine, in the face of Serb resistance, are formidable.
At the same time, Mr. Milosevic cannot be granted a veto over our actions, and Javier Solana, NATO's Secretary, speaks for us all in saying we must continually assess and update all our options. There will be no deals and no compromises. Mr. Milosevic must cease all military operations and end all repression in Kosovo. He must withdraw his forces. The refugees must be allowed to return. And he must acquiesce in a NATO-led international settlement.
NATO, for its part, must tighten economic sanctions. And we must continue to provide humanitarian assistance to the refugees.
It is important, too, that we plan for the long-term, cooperative security of Europe. This means redefining the core functions of the alliance as military planners prepare for the 21st century. Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, which established the alliance in 1949, treats an attack on one as an attack on all.
It is the most remarkable mutual guarantee ever given among nations. We are extending that to three new partners -- Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic -- and preparing for the admission of new members in the future.
NATO comprises three crucial partnerships that we need to nurture and develop. Foremost is the partnership between Europe and North America. It extends beyond the security sphere. The shared values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights make NATO more than a military alliance. They are the practical and political embodiment of trans-Atlantic unity.
Americans seem to recognize that the developing European Union is in the best interests of NATO. While the United States may well be the only remaining superpower, the union packs a big punch in trade and economics. But we need to develop its political clout, too, so that America can look to its European allies to share more of the defense burden. As the European Union improves its ability to manage political crises, Europe will make a stronger contribution to NATO.
NATO will always be the bedrock of our collective defense. But Europeans also need to be able to take on security tasks where the alliance as a whole is not engaged.
This is a concept we will develop further at the summit, without duplicating NATO's impressive apparatus for planning and for mobilizing force, and in a way that will mean we can better carry out our military responsibilities whenever we need to act.
The wider Euro-Atlantic community of nations will be exemplified at the summit when we are joined by our partner countries in the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. This will underline that NATO is not an inward-looking club of the secure West, but an alliance dedicated to fostering security and stability throughout Europe.
I also would like to see Russia become an active and successful member of this Euro-Atlantic community, as is now the case with Ukraine. Russia belongs to Europe spiritually and politically as well as geographically. We need to learn how to insure that Russia and the allies can work more effectively to pre-empt crises like Kosovo. A necessary first step is to resume the military cooperation and political dialogue that was developing well before the current crisis in Kosovo.
NATO's first task, of course, is to protect its own member countries. But we will be judged by our more general ability to deliver security and personal freedom. That means NATO must have a moral perspective and a conscience. We must be willing to right wrongs and prosecute just causes.
That is what we are doing over Kosovo, and why our pilots and crews will be operating over the Balkans again tonight. That is the clear message from NATO. And that is the lesson Slobodan Milosevic will learn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); GREAT BRITAIN; SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); VETO (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); REFUGEES (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) TONY BLAIR (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



514 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
CHILE: NEW PINOCHET STRATEGY -- In a new legal strategy, Chile announced that it would request arbitration from the World Court at The Hague to determine whether Britain, Spain or Chile has the sovereign right to decide the legal fate of the former dictator Augusto Pinochet. General Pinochet has been held in Britain since October on a warrant issued by a Spanish judge charging him with various crimes against humanity. Clifford Krauss (NYT) 

VENEZUELA: U.S. AIDE'S TRIP PUT OFF -- The U.S. has indefinitely postponed an official trip to Caracas by an Assistant Secretary of State, saying "now is not a good time" for him to visit. The action came after Foreign Minister Jose Vicente Rangel accused Washington of exerting "elements of pressure" to prevent President Hugo Chavez from carrying out the "peaceful revolution" he has pledged, and described American policy toward Cuba as "a stupidity." Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
MEXICO: ELECTORAL REFORMS PROPOSED -- The four opposition parties that control the Chamber of Deputies introduced a package of electoral reforms. One provision would enable Mexicans living in the U.S. to vote in Mexico's presidential elections next year. Another would make it easier for opposition parties to unite behind a joint presidential candidate in 2000. President Ernesto Zedillo's governing party, known as the PRI, opposes the reforms. They are likely to be approved in the Chamber but blocked by the PRI-controlled Senate. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
SCOTLAND: NATIONALISTS FADING -- Two polls showed the Scottish Nationalist Party, advocates of full independence for Scotland, losing substantial ground to the Labor Party in campaigning for May 6 elections to the new parliament in Edinburgh. The Glasgow Herald, whose poll was based on interviews with 3,255 voters, making it the biggest poll conducted in Scotland, said Labor appeared headed for a majority of seats and that the earlier support for the Nationalists, headed by Alex Salmond, above, was now "in free fall." Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BRITAIN, TURKEY: KURD TV BANNED -- Regulators revoked the license of Med-TV, a Kurdish-language satellite television channel based in London, saying it had been used to promote violence. Turkey has accused the channel of broadcasting attack orders from Kurdish rebel commanders after the capture of the rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan. Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey welcomed the decision. (AP, Reuters)
 
SWITZERLAND: EASING DRUG LAWS -- A Government commission has recommended that the sale and use of marijuana be legalized under certain conditions. The recommendations were part of an overall study of Swiss drug laws, which have failed to prevent a rise in marijuana consumption. To prevent the country from becoming a drug haven, purchasers would have to prove they lived in Switzerland. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)
 
RUSSIA: DEATH PENALTY REPRIEVE -- President Boris N. Yeltsin plans to commute all death sentences in Russia as the country moves toward eliminating capital punishment, said Robert Tsivilev, who heads the presidential department for pardons. He said Mr. Yeltsin wants the cases of the roughly 300 convicts on death row to be reviewed by the end of May. (AP)
 
ASIA
 
MALAYSIA: 3 ANWAR ASSOCIATES INDICTED -- Prosecutors indicted three associates of former Finance Minister Anwar Ibrahim, compounding the ex-minister's legal position a week after he was jailed for corruption. Mr. Anwar's brother, Sukma Dermawan, left, was charged with sodomy, assisting sodomy and perjury. His former private secretary and a fashion designer who has worked for Mr. Anwar's wife were indicted for perjury. The three are central to other charges hanging over Mr. Anwar. (Reuters)
 
AFGHANISTAN: GETTING ON-LINE -- The Internet, E-mail and direct international dialing are about to come to Afghanistan, a country with only two known international land lines and a domestic phone system dating to the 1950's. Local officials said the first direct links would bring Afghanistan on-line within two to three months as part of a 15-year program. The move, which has the blessing of the governing Taliban, follows talks with the U.S.-based Telephone Systems International Inc. (Agence France-Presse)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
MOROCCO: ARAB RIGHTS CONDEMNED -- Rights activists from 15 Arab countries said violations in the Arab world had soared in the 1990's with the rise of Islamic militancy and worsening economic conditions. With few exceptions, human rights records in Arab countries continued to deteriorate, they said at a three-day international conference on Arab rights. The harshest criticism was leveled at the Government of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: BLACK CRICKETER CONVICTED -- Makhaya Ntini, the only black cricketer on the national team and central to its efforts to recruit black youths to the game, was convicted of rape. The team, which had supported him through the trial, immediately suspended him. Mr. Ntini denied raping or having consensual sex with a young woman who asked him for a ride home from a cricket ground, and his lawyers said they would appeal. Donald G. McNeil Jr. (NYT)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: PEOPLE'S POET GETS 13 YEARS -- Mzwakhe Mbuli, a musician and writer known as the People's Poet, was sentenced to 13 years in prison for his part in a 1997 bank robbery. Mr. Mbuli claimed that he was framed because he had information about drug-running and gun-smuggling by high-ranking members of the African National Congress. Mr. Mbuli said he would appeal. Donald G. McNeil Jr. (NYT)
 
UNITED NATIONS
 
DEVELOPMENT CHIEF APPROVED -- The General Assembly approved the candidacy of a British World Bank official, Mark Malloch Brown, to lead the largest U.N. agency, the U.N. Development Program, which dispenses some $1 billion a year. Mr. Malloch Brown was chosen to succeed James Gustave Speth, an American, who is leaving to become dean of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale University. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); SPAIN (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (94%); SPAIN (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CANNABIS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); DRUG POLICY (88%); ELECTION LAW (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); JUDGES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (60%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); ALEX SALMOND (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



515 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Nasdaq Continues to Climb On Strong Earnings Reports
After setting a high Thursday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 1.97 points, to 1,356.85. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 37.51 points, to 10,689.67. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many computer companies, climbed 29.08 points, or 1.14 percent, to 2,590.69, capping its second-best four-day gain ever. 
 Computer shares rallied for a fourth day on optimism about profits, while AT&T pulled the Dow Jones industrial average lower on concern that the phone company's $58 billion bid for Mediaone would hurt earnings. I.B.M. soared over 200 before settling at 199 3/4, up 5 1/4. The computer maker gained $28 billion in market value this week after reporting higher-than-expected profit and sales. Page C3.
 
Chock Full o'Nuts Shares Acquired
Three directors of Chock Full o'Nuts, including the 84-year-old chairman, bought company stock in the months after they rejected an unsolicited takeover offer from Sara Lee, but before that offer was disclosed to the public. The suitor remains interested, however, and this week disclosed that it had approached the company recently, sending the stock up almost 50 percent. C3.
 
Merck Profits Rise 12% in Quarter
First-quarter earnings at Merck & Company jumped 12 percent, to $1.3 billion, on gains in the sale of key prescription products and growth of its drug benefits business. Sales rose 24 percent, to $7.5 billion. C3.
 
Mercedes Opens a Plant in Brazil
DaimlerChrysler opened a factory to produce Mercedes-Benz cars in Brazil. DaimlerChrysler, which already assembles Dodge pickup trucks at a plant in southern Brazil, hopes to produce at least 25,000 A-Class compact cars in the first year at its $820 million factory. If the Brazilian economy manages to grow next year, company officials said they could almost triple annual output to 70,000 by 2000. C2.
 
Debt-Relief Plan Is Not Working
With the number of people living on under $1 a day likely to reach 1.5 billion next year, five major industrialized powers -- the United States, Canada, France, Germany and Britain -- have acknowledged that a plan devised three years ago to forgive debts of the poorest countries is not working well. C2.
 
Soros Declares Financial Crisis Over
The financier George Soros declared the global financial crisis over and said that Brazil's $2 billion bond sale showed that the world's financial markets had recovered after their recent turmoil. Brazil's sale of five-year bonds marked the first time the country tapped international capital markets since last April. The bonds were priced on Thursday to yield 11.88 percent, 6.75 percentage points more than United States Treasury securities of comparable maturity. C2.
 
Losses at Japan's Brokerage Firms
Japan's biggest brokerage firms reported huge losses for the year. Nomura Securities cited a $3.3 billion loss on its overseas bond trading and aid to an affiliate. Daiwa Securities, Japan's second-biggest brokerage firm, and Nikko Securities also reported losses for a third year, as they too wrote off bad loans at financing affiliates and closed most of their overseas operations. C2.
 
Energy East to Buy Gas Company
Energy East plans to acquire Connecticut Energy, which is based in Bridgeport, Conn., for about $617 million in stock and in cash. Energy East, based in Ithaca, N.Y., said Connecticut Energy shareholders would receive $42 a share and could specify the percentage they wished to receive in stock and in cash. C4.
 
Hyundai Group Planning to Revamp
The Hyundai Group plans to reduce the number of its subsidiaries to 26 from 79 by 2003 through sales and mergers. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,689.67 down 37.51
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.60% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 119.41 yen 0.11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (82%); MRK (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (97%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (66%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



516 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: MILITARY ANALYSIS;
One Month: No NATO Victory, No Serb Loss

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
As NATO leaders gathered today behind closed doors to consider their next moves against Yugoslavia, the alliance's commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, offered a strikingly optimistic view of the progress so far. "We are winning," he declared today. "He is losing. And he knows it."
In fact, NATO is far from winning. 
 A month into the air war in the Balkans, Yugoslavia has withstood nearly 3,000 combat raids and shows no signs yet of breaking. President Slobodan Milosevic has succeeded in expelling hundreds of thousands of Albanians from Kosovo, routing the rebel force fighting for its independence and steeling the will of the Serbs in support of his repressive rule.
From the start, NATO's campaign has stumbled over a series of foreseeable and unforeseeable problems -- from political limitations on its initial strikes to Yugoslavia's success in husbanding its air defenses.
The latter has forced NATO to alter its raids and put off the kind of low-flying patrols that could make a real difference against the tanks and artillery battering Kosovo villages.
The Apache helicopters that began arriving in Albania with much fanfare on Wednesday are not expected to begin flying combat strikes into Kosovo for many more days or weeks, officials said, in large part because the Serbs have retained enough of their air defenses to keep allied pilots guessing about the threat they face.
"I don't know what's been done right here," said Gen. Michael Dugan, a retired Air Force Chief of Staff. "The air war has been carried out without much political will or military decisiveness."
It is very difficult, of course, to assess winners and losers after only one month of conflict. Thirty days after Iraqi forces seized Kuwait in August 1990, for instance, it was unclear how Washington and its allies would evict President Saddam Hussein's troops.
To commanders at NATO and the Pentagon, Mr. Milosevic's achievements thus far are fleeting, tactical gains that have brought him little strategic advantage.
The expulsion of the Albanians, which first stunned and then distracted NATO with a parallel relief operation, has only served to harden the resolve of NATO's 19 members. As the air campaign has continued, the allies have become more willing to approve attacks on sensitive targets, like state-run television and Mr. Milosevic's homes.
Officials vow to continue to grind away at Yugoslavia's military and political leadership, insisting that time and firepower are on NATO's side, though time may be what is needed most. "Milosevic will run out of bullets and gas long before we do," a Pentagon official said today.
From the beginning, the United States and its allies laid out political objectives that military commanders warned would be difficult to achieve by bombing alone.
President Clinton said the air campaign had three objectives: to underscore NATO unity in opposing aggression; to deter Mr. Milosevic from expelling ethnic Albanians, and, if necessary, to hurt Belgrade's ability to wage war by "seriously diminishing" its military abilities.
The only objective met so far is a firm display of unity. Yugoslavia's ability to endure the strikes has left NATO no option but to step up the size and scope of its campaign far more than the alliance envisioned when the attacks began in March. General Clark has asked the Pentagon to provide 300 more warplanes and dozens more from other allies, raising the total to more than 1,000, which more than doubles the number on hand when the war started.
NATO's campaign has become a case study in gradual escalation, comparable more to the Vietnam War than the Persian Gulf conflict. In the air war against Iraq, allied pilots flew as many as 3,000 missions a day, compared to 300 to 600 against Yugoslavia. From the first day, gulf commanders targeted the heart of the political and economic power in Baghdad, a tactic only recently adopted against Belgrade.
Senior American military officers initially warned that it could take weeks to break Mr. Milosevic's will. But some top Administration officials privately were convinced that Mr. Milosevic would fold after a few days of air strikes.
Instead, he grew more defiant, and his forces in Kosovo splintered into smaller units that were harder to detect or hit. Many of them have been hunkered down in defensive positions for the last few weeks, out of NATO gun sights, in forests or next to residential buildings and churches where NATO is afraid to bomb.
Unable to eradicate Yugoslav forces in the field, NATO has made its attacks more personal. In addition to hitting Mr. Milosevic's house and national television studios, the alliance also struck two electricity transformers, cutting off power to command bunkers in Belgrade and to the residential and commercial areas around them.
Those targets signal a shift in tactics, one aimed at trying to undercut Mr. Milosevic's popular base. It is a strategy that still relies on an uprising that shows no sign of forming.
"You can have your rock concerts, but pretty soon it's going to be Belgrade unplugged," said the President's spokesman, Joe Lockhart.
There is no question that the attacks have hurt Yugoslavia, destroying its indigenous oil production and shattering its transportation network as NATO cruise missiles and aircraft pick off highway and railroad bridges from one end of the country to the other.
In the Pentagon's latest damage assessment, the director of intelligence for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Rear Adm. Thomas R. Wilson, described Yugoslavia's military and police forces as badly strained, running low on fuel and ammunition and harassed by a down-but-not-out Kosovo Liberation Army.
But Yugoslav forces have been resilient, having learned from Saddam Hussein's mistakes. A defense intelligence official described those lessons, noting that the forces in the field have effectively tried to slip out of NATO's reach rather than confront the alliance's air power head-on. "They've learned how to offset our advantages," the official said.
Yugoslavia's leadership has been resolute and resourceful, too. Mr. Milosevic's special police forces, which have been relocating their headquarters to basements in Belgrade hotels, are still functioning despite the destruction of the headquarters three weeks ago, the official said.
And it was only a matter of hours after American F-117 fighters leveled the headquarters of Serbian television in Belgrade that state-controlled broadcasts were back on the air, leaving NATO little option but to go after the backup sites.
"Stay tuned," the Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said today, openly vowing to keep Mr. Milosevic's propaganda off the air.
The question in the end is which side can outlast the other. NATO's leaders vowed to stay the course, with some Pentagon commanders warning that the attacks could go for months, even though they have no clear idea when or if Mr. Milosevic will ever relent.
Which is why the NATO Secretary General, Javier Solana, has authorized General Clark to at least update the assessment for using ground troops in Kosovo. Even that threat may not be enough to budge Mr. Milosevic, who has proved difficult for Western leaders to read.
"It's very hard to gauge the level of pain that somebody is willing to endure," Admiral Wilson said. "And I don't know what President Milosevic's level of pain is. But other parts of the society have a level of pain which may differ. And it's getting higher all the time. That's all I can say."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, right, conferred with Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the supreme NATO commander, yesterday prior to the NATO anniversary ceremony in the Capitol Rotunda. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Military Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (93%); KUWAIT (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); HELICOPTERS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (66%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; SCHMITT, ERIC; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); JAMES D SHELTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



517 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 24, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: OVERVIEW;
NATO Approves Naval Embargo on Oil Going to Serbs

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23

 BODY:
On the opening day of the NATO summit meeting, the alliance agreed today to impose an oil embargo on Serbia and to enforce it by searching ships in the Adriatic Sea suspected of carrying fuel for forces fighting in Kosovo.
Defense ministers of the 19-nation alliance took steps toward enforcing the restrictions after NATO leaders made the decision at a three-hour session focused on the Kosovo war. By providing ships to conduct searches and inspections, NATO would try to dry up the flow of oil into ports on the coast of Montenegro, which supply Serbia, a Pentagon official said. It was not clear what actions NATO might take if ships carrying oil defied the alliance. 
 NATO also decided to order the alliance commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, to carry out heavier air strikes against overland pipelines and railroads that carry the fuel to Serbia, the Pentagon official said.
The alliance leaders have gathered here to celebrate 50 years of the alliance, but the gathering has been overshadowed by the month of fighting in Kosovo.
At their session, the NATO leaders issued a communique spelling out their intentions for Kosovo's future.
If President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslav began to withdraw his forces according to an agreed-to timetable, the communique said, the allies would deploy an "international military force" and set up an "international provisional administration" in the province, which would give it autonomy, but not independence.
The idea of deploying an international force and setting up some form of protectorate has been intensively discussed in Brussels, Washington and other NATO capitals.
But the leaders' communique marked a formal commitment by NATO to those conditions for a settlement.
The allies also pledged to seek a United Nations Security Council resolution to demand the withdrawal of Serbian forces.
The specification that the force and the interim administration in Kosovo would be "international," and not necessarily NATO-led, and the inclusion of the Security Council appeared designed to encourage the participation of Russia in a diplomatic solution, which in turn was expected to make it easier for Mr. Milose-vic to accept.
At the same time, the allies officially rejected recent offers of a settlement made by Mr. Milosevic through Russia's Balkan envoy, former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. Without naming Mr. Chernomyrdin, the communique said the Yugoslav leader's "offers to date" did not meet NATO conditions.
Military leaders have been pushing for ways to choke off oil supplies to Yugoslavia, arguing that new oil was arriving even as they were bombing oil installations.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said on Thursday that "basically it didn't make a lot of sense for us to be bombing refineries and at the same time not doing enough to prevent the access of oil by sea." She added, "We are particularly focusing on oil because that is the way that forces move around."
Earlier in the day, the European Union pushed through a decision to ban the supply of oil and refined products to Yugoslavia, excluding supplies for relief efforts.
The Pentagon official said an effort would be made to minimize the damage to Montenegro, a republic of Yugoslavia that has opposed the Government of Mr. Milosevic. "The question is how to stop the flow of oil into Montenegro and to stop the flow out of Montenegro without hurting the Montenegrins."
In their communique, the 19 leaders reaffirmed the five basic demands that Mr. Milosevic must agree to for the bombing to stop. They are a verifiable cease-fire; withdrawal of all Serbian military and police forces from Kosovo; the stationing of an international military presence that would have NATO at its core; the safe return of the ethnic Albanian refugees to Kosovo, and a willingness to work toward a political agreement based on accords from the failed talks held in Rambouillet, France, in February.
The formal 17-point communique of the summit was released against a backdrop of tough language. Phrases like "resolve to see this challenge through" and declarations that "NATO will prevail" reverberated throughout the day.
Jamie P. Shea, the NATO spokesman, set a tone that combined perseverance and defensiveness. He said: "NATO has an obligation to succeed. We cannot afford to lose this one."
At a closed session of the 19 leaders, General Clark gave an upbeat 10-minute briefing on the status of the air campaign. He told them that NATO had "achieved air superiority at mid to high altitudes throughout Yugoslavia," according to his spokeswoman.
General Clark flew back to Brussels tonight, without meeting with President Clinton. His spokeswoman said he had to get back to the war.
And in public briefings by various NATO leaders, their ministers and spokesmen invoked the idea of ground troops as they tried to send a unified message. Much of that talk seemed aimed at Mr. Milosevic, since the alliance leaders still insist that the air campaign is effective.
That option -- of when and how they would enter Kosovo -- was not addressed in the official 17-point communique on Kosovo.
But there was "some discussion" about ground troops at the closed Kosovo session of the 19 leaders, the Canadian Defense Minister, Art Eggleton, said in an interview. The talk focused on asking the military planners at NATO headquarters to review all options, but did not get into specifics, he said.
Their discussion followed a decision two days ago by NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, to review all plans for introducing group troops into the region, a decision made at the request of the allies.
The British, who have been the most vocal on the subject of ground troops, reiterated today that they envisioned a situation where troops could enter Kosovo after Serbian forces had been very heavily punished and where Mr. Milosevic had not given his consent.
On Wednesday night, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain spent two and a half hours with Mr. Clinton in a private dinner at the White House, trying to explain to the President the necessity of being prepared to send in troops without Yugoslavia's consent but after Serbian forces had been severely weakened, British officials said today.
Britain's chief of the defense staff, Gen. Charles Guthrie, repeated this theme at a news conference today, saying: "President Milosevic's war machine has been seriously weakened. It's going to be weakened again, day after day, week after week." He added, in reference to going into Kosovo, "And we will be able to choose our time."
General Guthrie said that there were now about 19,000 allied troops in Macedonia and Albania and that more be sent in the coming weeks to be ready to "to take the refugees back."
The general said that he was not prepared to say how many troops would be needed for the operation but that it would need to be more than the 30,000 proposed as a security force in Kosovo before the air attacks began. The British officials stressed that none of the allies would agree to ground troops' fighting their way into Kosovo. "We are not talking about an invasion force," Defense Secretary George Robertson of Britain said.
The Pentagon announced tonight that about 2,300 troops accompanied by heavy armor were being sent to Albania, adding to the 3,000 American soldiers already there.
The new troops were being sent with 15 tanks, 14 Bradley armored vehicles, eight howitzers and a company of soldiers armed with anti-tank weapons.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the NATO meeting in Washington yesterday were, from left, Prime Minister Costas Simitis, Greece; Javier Solana, NATO's Secretary General; President Clinton; President Vaclav Havel, the Czech Republic; President Jacques Chirac, France, and Prime Minister David Oddsson of Iceland. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Lech Walesa, the former Polish President, waited yesterday before the NATO 50th anniversary ceremony. (Reuters); Listening yesterday to speeches welcoming Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic were, from left, Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary; Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota; Javier Solana, NATO Secretary General, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana. (Shana Raab for The New Times)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); ICELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ADRIATIC SEA; EUROPE; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HUNGARY (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); POLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (79%); ICELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PIPELINES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) JAVIER SOLANA (73%); DICK LUGAR (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%); TOM DASCHLE (50%); DAVID ODDSSON (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1999



518 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Did He Inhale?

BYLINE: By Richard L. Berke; Richard L. Berke is the national political correspondent of The New York Times.

 BODY:

GORE
 A Political Life.
 By Bob Zelnick.
 384 pp. Washington:
 Regnery Publishing. $29.95. 
 Al Gore presents the ultimate challenge to a biographer, and not just because he is hardly a scintillating politician. He has been a public fixture for so long that the story lines about him are so well established that they are practically cliches: he is animated in private but wooden in public; his father, the Senator, so groomed him to be President that Gore is out of touch with ordinary people; he is trustworthy and reliable, but the accusations about his fund-raising practices in 1996 exposed his need to indulge in the political games that he expects will carry him to the White House.
In "Gore: A Political Life," Bob Zelnick offers a useful and comprehensive survey of the highs and lows of Gore's political career as he embarks on his quest for the Democratic Presidential nomination. But the book falls short in offering readers any sense of Gore that is more textured or revealing than what has already appeared in newspaper and magazine articles.
While the book lauds Gore on several points -- his service in Vietnam, his knack in Congress for identifying hot new issues, his intimate, hands-on role in the White House -- there are many areas where Zelnick interprets Gore's actions in the most deprecatory way possible. The book starts on a positive note but, as the chapters progress, turns increasingly critical.
For example, while some environmentalists describe Gore's book "Earth in the Balance" as an impressive work that incorporates his knowledge of global warming and other issues, Zelnick dismisses it as "pathetically one-dimensional in its view of Western civilization, shabby in its ignorance of economics, simplistic in its approach to problem solving."
In describing Gore's participation at a White House session with several leading conservatives, Zelnick is clearly put off by his blunt defense of racial preferences. While many Democrats were impressed by Gore's outspokenness, Zelnick sees it another way. "Clinton's reputation for empathy, analysis and nuance was put on dazzling display," he writes, while "Gore's reputation for stiff-necked condescension was also very much in evidence."
And while many politicians in both parties cheered Gore's performance in debating Ross Perot on the North American Free Trade Agreement, Zelnick ridi-
cules him for offering "anecdotal nonsense, a list of treaty endorsements and some rather nasty ad hominem attacks on Perot."
Zelnick does little to dispel accusations from Gore loyalists that his was the latest conservative-tinged book from Regnery Publishing. The book was controversial even before it was published. Zelnick resigned last year as a correspondent for ABC News after the network said that for him to write a book about Gore and cover national politics constituted a conflict of interest.
One frustration is that Zelnick provides no footnotes. That makes it hard to separate fresh reportage from material that has already been published. That is a particularly important matter because the book cries out for new insights or revelations, especially since Gore did not cooperate.
Even if he did not uncover much, Zelnick does provide some tantalizing tidbits. He recounts, for instance, that Gore liked to smoke marijuana at Harvard and that he and his wife, Tipper, used the drug recreationally for a decade. He explores how Gore was an ardent foe of spending Federal money on abortion -- until he hooked up with Bill Clinton. And he offers evidence that the image of Gore as superorganized and disciplined may not be so accurate.
In his years as a reporter for The Nashville Tennessean, Zelnick recalls, there was "little passion, humor, calculated irony or human insight in Gore's journalism." Zelnick's prose at times seems to share a certain lifelessness. His is a somewhat disjointed book that lacks overarching themes and whose writing is serviceable but hardly graceful.
Even so, as the first in a parade of biographies of the Vice President, this book is likely to become a resource for Gore watchers as the campaign unfolds -- at least until another biographer takes a stab at coming up with a new story line. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VIET NAM (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VIET NAM (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



519 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Passing the Bucks

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria is a managing editor of Foreign Affairs and the author of "From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America's World Role."

 BODY:

False Dawn
 The Delusions of Global Capitalism.
 By John Gray.
 262 pp. New York:
 The New Press. $25. 
 If I had to write a bumper sticker to describe the climate of today's world , it would read: "Globalization -- Love It or Leave It." John Gray once loved it -- he was a Thatcherite in the 1980's -- but now he has left it, and how! His new book argues -- actually, thunders -- that the global economic system is immoral, inequitable, unworkable and unstable. (I think I've got it all.) In "False Dawn," Gray takes on an immensely important subject, ranges widely and vibrantly and makes some telling criticisms. He recognizes that the movement toward free markets, goods and ideas is not a naturally occurring process but rather a political project that rests on American power. His solution is quite simple: Good riddance. He hopes for the return of distinct national variations on capitalism, most of them with high levels of state intervention. His passion is heartfelt, but in the end it overwhelms all else in this book. Gray, a professor of European thought at the London School of Economics and the author of an intelligent study of Isaiah Berlin, charges that the policies advocated by the United States, the International Monetary Fund and most economists -- free trade, liberalization, deregulation -- are wreaking havoc on societies around the globe. They are destroying the welfare state in Continental Europe and East Asia, traditional communities in the developing world and the family everywhere. But they will not succeed because the effects of these reforms will "trigger political countermovements that challenge the very ground rules of the global free market." Globalization, then, is a dangerous fantasy. Dangerous because of its effects; a fantasy because it will not achieve its goal.
Instead, Gray advocates an acceptance of the varieties of capitalism, most of them much more statist than in the United States and Britain. The goal of the liberalizers, he asserts, is to return the world to something close to the first age of globalization -- from about 1870 to 1914 -- when laissez-faire truly reigned. He believes that this romantic view of the belle epoque generalizes from the experience of one country, Britain, and to a lesser extent, the United States. In fact, he argues, British-American development was unique. In all other cases, capitalism was an intensely state-driven project, and those models are the ones the world should follow. And even in Britain and the United States, the state was massively involved, through the enclosure laws in Britain and high tariffs and railroad subsidies in America. And by the way, the 19th-century free market destroyed the social fabric in much of Europe. (This is what lawyers call arguing in the alternate: "I wasn't present that night. And if I was, I didn't break the window.")
Gray has created an elaborate straw man against whom he argues with great relish. In fact, none of the policy recommendations in vogue today could conceivably return Europe to anything like 19th-century laissez-faire. Despite all the oft-mentioned regulation, tariffs and subsidies, the 19th-century state's role in the economy -- even on the Continent -- was tiny. The simplest and best measure of this is state spending as a share of the gross domestic product. In 1870 it ranged from 4 percent in America to 13 percent in France. Today the figures are 33 percent and 53 percent respectively; they actually rose slightly in the libertarian 1990's.
Most free-market reforms discussed in the West are modest attempts to pare back some of the expanding regulations, taxes and entitlements that accumulated in the 1970's and 1980's. (In 1960, after the New Deal, after social markets were established, public spending in Western countries was still only 30 percent of G.D.P.) The most radical free-market reforms being touted by various right-of-center parties would shave a few percentage points off state spending. Gray can relax; the era of big government is here to stay.
Gray also gets the developing world wrong. East Asia grew mainly through laissez-faire, not state direction. Unlike most third world countries, East Asians opened themselves to foreign investment and allowed vigorous internal competition in almost every sector. The state's role in these economies is smaller even than in America, about 25 percent of G.D.P. (because they have few middle class entitlements and welfare programs.) East Asia's statism, exaggerated by anecdotal analysis, is actually limited and often not very helpful. Japanese growth, for example, owed more to those sectors in which brutal competition prevailed -- cars, consumer electronics -- than those the government favored. (Remember high-definition television?) If East Asia is the model, then countries like India, Egypt and even Brazil still have a lot of liberalization left to do. Also, many of the reforms being "imposed" on East Asian societies by the I.M.F. will actually enhance governmental power, mainly through increased regulation of the financial sector. Globalization can sometimes strengthen the state.
The villain of "False Dawn" is America, about which Gray writes with undisguised scorn. "Free markets have contributed to social breakdown on a scale unknown in any other developed country. . . . Levels of inequality in the United States resemble those of Latin American countries more than those of any European society," he writes, and says later, "The middle classes are rediscovering the conditions of assetless economic insecurity that afflicted the 19th century proletariat." Some of his charges are telling; he points repeatedly to America's large prison population, which he dramatically refers to as the result of "a policy of mass incarceration," a formulation that brings to mind -- as I'm sure it's supposed to -- peasants being rounded up by the thousands. Others are simply false; American levels of inequality are actually much closer to European than Latin levels. (The World Bank provides these figures.) Gray also seems to have missed the rise of middle-class capitalism. Over 50 percent of Americans have investments in the stock market, which has quadrupled in value in the last decade.
What troubles Gray most about America is that the rest of the world will become like it. He proposes a version of Gresham's Law; under globalization, "bad capitalism tends to drive out good." Forced to compete with American laissez-faire, other countries will eventually copy it. In fact, this exaggerates the power of global markets. Of course they limit a state's ability to endlessly spend money foolishly, and they do tend to demand some overall efficiency. But every country can achieve efficiency in its own way. America provides lavish subsidies for home ownership; Germany gives its workers generous benefits; France spends extravagantly on culture. All are inefficient from a purely economic point of view, but my guess is that all will survive the ravages of global markets. Indeed, most European societies have already done what Gray hopes for. They seem to have decided not to roll back their welfare states but rather reform them gradually, accepting the lower growth rates such a process entails. Nineteenth-century globalization did not turn every country into Britain; 21st-century globalization will not make every society like America.
Gray exaggerates the power of global capitalism in another sense. The reforms being implemented by all Western countries are not simply the result of globalization or the bewitching power of Thatcherism. The neoliberal policies of the 1990's are a rational response to the stagflation, low growth and overregulation of the 1970's, just as the Keynesian policies of the 1950's, adopted by all Western governments, were a response to the domestic realities of the 1930's and 1940's -- mass unemployment and social chaos. The demographics alone are compelling. Welfare states built on ratios of several workers to one retiree will have to be scaled back as the number of retirees grows in the coming decades. By 2030, Germany's pensions, if they are not trimmed, will take up almost 17 percent of the budget; the figure for 1995 is 11 percent.
Gray's most sweeping charge is that global capitalism is flawed because it is a utopian idea, a product of Enlightenment visions of a perfect society. He sees great similarities in this sense between capitalism and Communism: "They embody the same rationalist hubris and cultural imperialism that have marked the central traditions
of Enlightenment thinking." Gray's last book, "Enlightenment's Wake," was a wholesale attack on the Enlightenment itself, whose emphasis on reason, science and progress, he claimed, had "desolated traditional cultures everywhere and visited devastation of their natural environments." But Gray doesn't seem to recognize that his own vision of a good society is imbued with Enlightenment rationalism. The modern bureaucratic-administrative state, wisely regulating the economy, meeting material needs and promoting social cohesion, is as much an Enlightenment idea -- some might say a utopian idea -- as the free market or Communism. The trouble with the Enlightenment is that you can't get away from it.
The real fantasy in this book is of those wonderful traditional societies that flourished before modernity and the free market wrecked them. The reality in those communities for most people was -- and is -- medieval levels of poverty, disease and starvation. That is why in every third world country peasants flee their settled patterns of life by the busloads, hoping to find jobs in factory towns and cities. Capitalism has provided the only durable path out of misery for ordinary people, first in the West and now around the globe. Of course the movement out of centuries-old poverty is highly dislocating, but the response can hardly be therefore to stop it.
There are moments of wisdom in this book. Gray reminds us of what Daniel Bell called "the cultural contradictions of capitalism" -- the fact that the dynamic force of market economics erodes social cohesion, traditional culture and the institutions that give human beings a sense of security. But the serious discussion in most societies today is about how to tame capitalism enough so that people have some safety and dignity and yet not so much that it denies them material progress and opportunity. In this Gray is little help, because he seems unaware that for the vast majority of the world, the greatest danger of globalization is not that it will succeed but that it will fail. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); WRITERS (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: ISAIAH BERLIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



520 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Undoing His Own Undoing

BYLINE: By Ethan Bronner; Ethan Bronner, a national correspondent for The Times, was the Middle East correspondent for The Boston Globe from 1991 to 1997.

 BODY:

OUT OF THE ASHES
 The Resurrection of Saddam Hussein.
 By Andrew Cockburn
 and Patrick Cockburn.
 322 pp. New York:
 HarperCollins Publishers. $26. 
 In the mid-1990's, as rumors swirled of plans for a coup in neighboring Iraq, Amman, the dull, orderly capital of Jordan, took on the feel of Casablanca during World War II. Assassins, journalists and spies eyed one another on the terrace of the Intercontinental Hotel. Iraqi refugees manning carpet shops and money exchange stands were said to be key players. King Hussein provided offices and Mercedes sedans to opponents of Saddam Hussein, while court insiders predicted that the Iraqi President would shortly take a bullet to the head and be replaced by Iraqi officers selected for their understanding that the future lay with an American-backed, pro-Israeli alliance. The new Middle East was around the corner.
It was not to be, of course. Saddam has artfully played cat-and-mouse with the West and defied predictions of his demise while American dominance in the region has grown less sure-footed.
What went wrong? Andrew and Patrick Cockburn, Irish-born brothers and veteran Middle East journalists based, respectively, in Washington and Jerusalem, have performed a service in trying to answer that question in this sober and balanced yet intrigue-filled book. Like others, they argue that the 1991 post-gulf-war uprising of southern Shiites and northern Kurds failed at least partly because of American ambivalence, and that continuing economic sanctions on Iraq are doing little to pry the dictator from his power base and much to ruin the lives of ordinary Iraqis. But the strength of the book comes from new details from untapped sources, including two key former associates of Saddam, a previously unknown young Iraqi rebel and several former C.I.A. officers. The picture of the last eight years that emerges is among the most coherent and accessible of any book on Iraq to date.
Anyone who has reported out of Baghdad knows how difficult it is to get reliable information. Fear, suspicion and rumor rule. So it is refreshing to hear in this account from Wafiq al-Samarrai, former chief of military intelligence, and Hussain al-Shahristani, a former top Iraqi nuclear scientist. And for anyone interested in the political development of the endlessly cruel Uday Hussein, Saddam's older son, and the failed assassination attempt against him in 1996, the chapters on him are particularly rewarding.
The Cockburns argue that the Americans had decided from the beginning not to lift international trade sanctions on Iraq so long as Saddam remained in power. But efforts to support a rebellion against him have failed miserably. They say Washington fell victim to its ignorance of the nature of its Iraqi adversary and its potential allies.
All of this makes good sense. But there are two problems with the book, one technical and one philosophical. The technical problem is that the sourcing is irregular. Some details come with footnotes; others are presented without a trace of a source -- a significant lapse in a book navigating such a rumor-filled swamp. For example, the authors say that the 1991 rebellion by Shiites against Saddam was abandoned by the Americans because they feared Iranian involvement. The footnote says that this conclusion is based on Iraqi sources who reported on intercepted Shiite conversations. No American corroboration is offered.
The philosophical problem has two related parts concerning the failures of American policy and the desires of the Iraqi people.
American failures are self-evident. But what should have been done differently? Should the United States have taken Saddam out in early 1991? What if the rebellion of the Kurds and Shiites had spread to other states, like Turkey and Syria? Wouldn't that have been seen as a colossal error? The Cockburns say ominously that the world will pay the price for the suffering of the Iraqi people, but they also say that the overthrow of Saddam "will come at the hands of his own people." Can both be true? And, if the latter is correct, should the world turn its back until then?
Even more troubling is the issue of the intentions of the Iraqi people. The book asserts that most Iraqis detest Saddam. That seems logical. But the Sunni middle class often seems more afraid of Shiite fundamentalism and Kurdish tribal bloodletting than of Saddam's authoritarianism. Until this decade, Iraqi professionals appeared to be pretty content. This is the larger paradox. Given the history and makeup of Iraq, could it have been handled differently and more effectively? That is never addressed in this otherwise quite interesting book. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ASSASSINATION (77%); COUPS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); SEDANS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); REFUGEES (72%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



521 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3549 words

HEADLINE: Playing Chicken With Milosevic

BYLINE: By Blaine Harden; Blaine Harden is a reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Until Milo Djukanovic's new best friends in the United States and Western Europe began to drop bombs on Montenegro in late March, life had been going along swimmingly for the handsome young President of this Yugoslav republic.
Just 37 years old, built like an N.F.L. linebacker, packaged in dark Italian suits, married to an attractive blonde and hailed by voters as Milo the Blade, Djukanovic (djew-KAHN-oh-vich) has been playing a deliciously wicked game of chicken with the Serbian dictator Slobodan Milosevic. Before bombs and cruise missiles began to rain on Yugoslavia, the Montenegrin President even seemed to be winning. 
 For the first time since 1918, when Serbia annexed this mountainous, Connecticut-size republic on the Adriatic Sea and turned it into a perennial Yugoslav little brother, Montenegro was moving toward an independent and democratic future linked to the economies of Western Europe and the United States. Milosevic, so tactically brilliant in using ethnic hate to consolidate power, wasn't able to get a grip on the republic's 650,000 residents, even though he ruled 15 times as many people and more than 6 times as much land and commanded the formidable Yugoslav Army.
Montenegrins spent nearly 500 years fighting the Ottoman Empire, but unlike the Serbs, with whom they share the Orthodox religion, they were never entirely conquered in their mountain stronghold and so have always suffered from "a kind of permanent schizophrenia," says Milan Popovic, a Yugoslav sociologist. Montenegrins are animated by the same feelings of historical victimhood as Serbs, and many see themselves as a nation of "super Serbs," made somehow of tougher, more warlike stuff than the average resident of Serbia. At the same time, though, there is a tradition of mountain independence and an abiding suspicion that Serbia plays Montenegro for the fool. There is a saying here, "Serbs will fight until the last Montenegrin dies."
Djukanovic has challenged Milosevic with an impudent Balkan mix of Montenegrin populism, police muscle, cigarette smuggling and wisecracks about Milosevic's wife. Instead of howling about historical wrongs, whipping up nationalistic paranoia and ordering ethnic cleansing, Milo the Blade has preached free-market prosperity and eased ethnic tensions by securing the civil rights of his republic's Muslim and Albanian minorities.
Although Djukanovic tested and taunted Milosevic, he took care never to say or do anything anti-Serb. He never lost sight of who had the tanks and stopped short of a direct confrontation that could bring out the Yugoslav Army. Montenegro and Serbia are all that's left of the six republics that once made up Yugoslavia. Under the federal Constitution, they are supposedly equal, but larger Serbia has always dominated. And Djukanovic has remained immune to Tin Pot Leader Syndrome, a dizzying and endemic Balkan malady that infected his next-door neighbor, Franjo Tudjman, the President of Croatia, whose nationalist swagger terrified the Serb minority and helped provoke a war with Serbia.
Djukanovic is no choirboy. He started out in public life 10 years ago as a Communist enforcer for Milosevic. As one of the Serb leader's handpicked henchmen in Montenegro, he developed a state-sponsored air-and-sea smuggling operation that, paradoxically, gave him the financial resources to slip free of Milosevic's iron grip and evolve into a Balkan rarity -- a democrat.
The United States State Department says it believes Djukanovic's conversion is real, and so do the handful of long-suffering human rights activists who have watched him rise to power. His bully-boy past is unsavory, even criminal, they say, but he came of age in a very bad Balkan neighborhood where smart democrats with popular support and the guts (and police power) to stand up to Milosevic are hard to find. The region desperately needs a hero, and Djukanovic is perhaps the one leader whom the West can rally around.
Yet NATO bombs have changed all that. They have belied Djukanovic's promise to voters that a turn to the West would produce peace and wealth and emboldened his enemies who, with Milosevic's conniving, have already tried to overthrow his Government by force.
Many Montenegrins now consider it cowardly and traitorous to turn their backs on their embattled Serb neighbors. The bombs mean that before this story is printed Djukanovic could be put in prison or killed.
I met him in the Montenegrin capital of Podgorica late on a night in early April. He was holed up inside the Presidency Building, which was encircled by Special Forces police officers wearing camouflage combat uniforms and Israeli-made body armor and carrying Israeli-made automatic weapons. After passing through the police gantlet, the metal detector and the passport review, I was kept waiting for about half an hour in a barren room with a single fluorescent tube that flicked on and off. A sad-eyed, exhausted-looking woman appeared out of the intermittent gloom to offer me a foul yellowish liquid that she said was juice.
The dismal waiting chamber was an apt metaphor for Montenegro. This has always been one of the poorer backwaters of Europe and has got substantially more so in the Milosevic era, despite Djukanovic's best efforts at reform. It is a run-down republic of inhospitable mountains and second-rate, Communist-era beach hotels. The Government says the gross national product has shrunk 45 percent since Milosevic rose to power in 1989. The average monthly salary is now about $111. As of January, only about 19 percent of the republic's workers, or 22,000, got their salaries on time. Here, potholed highways are home to wandering cows, and wet laundry waves from the balconies of crumbling apartment buildings.
The President's office was nicer. The lights worked. The curtains were heavy; the rug, plush; the juice, drinkable. Out on the street, nearly all of the police had been strikingly tall, dark and beefy. So was Djukanovic. He was also immaculately turned out, considering the hour and the circumstances, in a starched white shirt and dark blue suit. His brown hair was freshly trimmed and just barely flecked with gray.
Nevertheless, he spoke, disappointingly, in the stiff bureaucratic locution of the young Communist that he once was, larding his sentences with references to "interlocutors" and "democratic structures." But after a few minutes of conversation, I noticed a stark difference between him and other Balkan leaders I have interviewed in the past 10 years. Unlike Alija Izetbegovic in Bosnia or Tudjman in Croatia or Milosevic in Serbia, he answered questions directly, without taking off on insufferably self-serving rants about how his people have been wronged and misunderstood for centuries.
The NATO bombings, the West's campaign to force Milosevic to halt his army's assault on ethnic Albanians in the Serb province of Kosovo, had started 12 nights earlier. Some of the strikes have hit Montenegro, where the Yugoslav Army has outposts. Whatever effect those bombings were having in Kosovo, they were an unqualified disaster for the man standing in front of me.
Before the bombs, two elections had shown that, by a narrow margin, Montenegrins approved of Djukanovic's shift to the West and of his prickly criticism of Milosevic. Now, though, the President did not bother pretending that he still had the support of his people. The bombs have already remade politics here.
On the evening he received me, more than 20,000 Montenegrins had gathered just four blocks from the President's office for a "Muzicki Hepening" in the city's central square. The rock concert, the largest public gathering here in years, was organized by the pro-Milosevic Socialist People's Party to protest the NATO strikes. The noisy crowd carried framed photographs of Milosevic and posters that read, "Monica Fell to Her Knees Before Clinton, But We Won't!" They applauded speeches that glorified the Yugoslav Army's campaign against the Kosovars. Many Montenegrins were clamoring for the President's head. "Djukanovic is a traitor," said Dejan Cvijanovic, a 28-year-old computer technician. "There are a great number of people who voted for him who now have turned against him. I hope there is a coup soon."
Djukanovic had been hearing the same belligerent stuff, he told me. Hundreds of his police officers had watched the concert from the edges of the square. He had monitored it from his office, and said he was concerned about similar gatherings that were scheduled for the coming week.
I asked if he was afraid of Milosevic.
"No," he said. "But I have no illusions. As long as Slobodan Milosevic is in the political life of Yugoslavia, he will do all he can think of both against Montenegro and against myself."
Can he stand up to Milosevic and the Yugoslav Army, I asked, if they come gunning for his Government?
"My police have enough men to control absolutely the situation in the republic," he said coldly.
That is debatable.
Djukanovic's Foreign Minister, Branko Perovic, says there are about 5,000 men in uniform trained for combat and about 3,000 in reserves. There were unconfirmed rumors that the police were frantically recruiting more fighters. The Yugoslav Second Army, by contrast, is believed to have more than 10,000 troops in Montenegro, and another 10,000 in reserve in Serbia, who are under the command of a hard-line general loyal to Milosevic. The army has tanks and artillery, which the police do not have. Under Milosevic's declaration of a state of emergency, the army has been trying to conscript thousands of men. Hundreds had been forcibly taken away from their homes by the military police.
The chances of a successful coup in Montenegro swing on the capacity and the willingness of the Second Army, 60 percent of whose conscripts come from Montenegro, to take on Djukanovic's police. Recent history suggests draftees would not shoot up their own republic. In the former Yugoslav republics of Slovenia and Croatia in 1991, the army did not put up much of a fight. But predicting what Milosevic might or might not do has always been a fool's game. If there were an army-versus-police confrontation in Montenegro, where nearly every adult male owns a gun, it could easily escalate into a dreadful civil war.
It was all so much simpler before the Nato bombs began falling, Djukanovic kept telling me in his bunkered office. All he had to do was outfox a dictator who, in the words of the last United States Ambassador to Yugoslavia, Warren Zimmermann, is the "slickest con man" in the Balkans.
The outfoxing began imperceptibly. Ten years ago, Djukanovic was thought of -- if he was thought of at all -- as merely a young, hard-line puppet of Milosevic. The Serb leader had plucked him from the ranks of the League of Communists in Montenegro to help lead something Milosevic called the "antibureaucratic revolution."
This was reform-sounding double talk for a power grab. Milosevic pushed aside older Communists still loyal to Tito's version of Yugoslavia, a place where Serb nationalism was crushed by the power of the state. Djukanovic helped his Serbian mentor sweep away the old gray cadres, and in return Milosevic crowned him in 1991 as Prime Minister of Montenegro. Just 29, he was the youngest Prime Minister in Europe.
The United Nations slapped economic sanctions on Yugoslavia in 1991 at the start of the Bosnian war. Djukanovic, an economist by training and a pragmatist by nature, quickly figured out how to profit from them. For a number of years, around 2 o'clock every morning, several giant Russian-made transport planes landed at the airport on the edge of the capital.
The planes brought in American and European cigarettes, which were trucked to the coast and smuggled by boat to Italy. Djukanovic's Government imposed a "transit fee," which, according to Branko Perovic, the Foreign Minister, added about $30 million a year to the republic's coffers. That's not a lot of money by European standards, but with an annual budget of just $270 million, the Montenegro Government was relying on smuggling for more than 10 percent of its revenue. (NATO bombing, of course, put an end to the plane landings.)
Djukanovic funneled most of the money into Government salaries and pensions, which in the mid-1990's his Government managed to pay on time. At such budgetary games, he was more skilled than Milosevic in Serbia, where pensions and salaries almost always ran six to eight months late, despite equally rampant smuggling. While Montenegrins widely believed that Djukanovic was creaming off some of the profits, they didn't much care. Unemployment was near 40 percent. A decade of war had ruined the tourist industry. "Everyone in Montenegro thought that finally there was someone in Government who knew how to create money," said Srdan Darmanovic, a former member of the Yugoslav Parliament and a Montenegrin human rights lawyer.
During these years, Djukanovic never said a disparaging word in public about Milosevic, although he insisted in our interview that he criticized him to his face in private meetings in Belgrade. Such public loyalty, however, did not prevent members of the Milosevic family from getting mad at Djukanovic, who was was making money that he wasn't sharing with them.
Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic, attacked him in her weekly newspaper column as the most notorious smuggler in Yugoslavia. It was a bold and characteristically mendacious accusation. Her only son, Marko, a gangster who carried a gun and routinely wrecked expensive racing cars, ran a large cigarette, alcohol and fuel smuggling operation in Serbia.
Playing to widespread resentment of Milosevic's wife, whom many Montenegrins and Serbs regard as a low-wattage Stalinist shrew, Djukanovic countered that she was an irrelevant woman whose Chinese-oriented Marxist party, the Yugoslav United Left, was so small that its entire membership could fit on a bus. Djukanovic waited, however, until her husband seemed to be losing power before announcing that he wasn't a fan of Milosevic. In late 1996 and early 1997, when the Serbian leader was struggling through three months of mass street demonstrations in Belgrade, Djukanovic said that Milosevic was a politician of the past, that he did not have a future in Yugoslavia and that Yugoslavia had no future with him.
When I asked about the smuggling, Djukanovic vehemently denied rising to power by illegality. Officials in his Government, though, openly concede that it was the only way to make ends meet under sanctions. They said Djukanovic has tried to attract foreign investment and legitimate business. Imitating post-Communist leaders from Poland to Bulgaria, he has announced plans to sell off state-owned industry. NATO bombings, of course, have put such reforms on hold.
Besides building a financial power base, Djukanovic had to build a political machine as well. He did this in a most un-Balkan way, by advocating ethnic tolerance. The contrast with Milosevic was nothing short of amazing.
Milosevic perpetuates his power by playing Serbs off an ever-rotating cast of alleged ethnic enemies. He started with ethnic Albanians in the Serb province of Kosovo in 1989, then shifted from Slovenes to Croats to Bosnian Muslims (while throwing in, for good measure, Americans, Germans, the British and the entire Islamic world). But when Djukanovic ran for President in 1997, he embraced the republic's ethnic minorities -- the Muslims who make up 14 percent of the population and the ethnic Albanians who make up about 8 percent -- and guaranteed their civil rights. In return, they voted overwhelmingly for him and for his coalition in last year's parliamentary vote. Muslims and ethnic Albanians now hold ministerial positions in his Government.
As for Kosovo, Djukanovic has called Milosevic's campaign of violent ethnic cleansing "insane, autistic and autocratic." He attributes the catastrophe there to what he has said were years of neglect by the Serbian leader, during which he refused to negotiate with moderate Kosovar politicians. He told me that months before the NATO campaign began he warned Western governments that bombing would only make things far worse for the Kosovars. He said he advised the West to support the democratic opposition in Serbia and in Kosovo and to show some patience.
No game against Milosevic, of course, can be played without armed muscle. Back in 1996, when Djukanovic was still Prime Minister and before he publicly criticized Milosevic, he put in his own man, Vukasin Maras, as head of the republic's police force. When Milosevic repeatedly tried to fire Maras, Djukanovic refused to let him. Consequently, he only narrowly defeated the incumbent, Momir Bulatovic, a Milosevic ally, in the 1997 presidential elections. The police became his and his alone.
When provoked, however, Djukanovic has mastered the concept of calculated restraint, so as not to give the Yugoslav Army a pretext for a coup. In January 1998, for instance, on the day before he was inaugurated as President, a crowd of about 10,000 armed protesters, led by Bulatovic, stormed the Presidency Building with automatic weapons and Molotov cocktails. Someone tossed a hand grenade at the entrance. Among the wounded were 37 members of Djukanovic's police force; four were hurt seriously. But the police did not shoot back. They drove the crowd away with tear gas and stun grenades, and the police chose not to arrest any of the demonstrators.
Djukanovic told me he knew that the army was looking for an excuse to intervene in Montenegro and that Milosevic had ordered the Yugoslav Army's chief of staff to deploy troops in support of the demonstrators. The general refused. (Milosevic later fired him.) Djukanovic gave Milosevic no justification -- no martyred dead, no prisoners of conscience -- for further violence. Which is why, when I spoke to Djukanovic, he was so furious about the NATO bombing. It had finally given Milosevic the excuse he needed to stage a coup.
Two nights after Djukanovic and I spoke, a few NATO bombs exploded near Podgorica -- the first such attacks in Montenegro in a week. Antiaircraft tracers lighted up the southern sky. A few blocks from my hotel, I picked up a NATO souvenir, a twisted hunk of charred aluminum with numbers printed on it, apparently part of an errant NATO missile that, miraculously, had injured no one and had broken only a few windows.
Djukanovic held a tense meeting with the local commander of the Yugoslav Army a couple of days later. A senior Government minister described the meeting: the President warned Gen. Milorad Obradovic to stop breaking into homes and dragging Montenegrins off to army barracks and said that it was an outrage that his Justice Minister had received three draft notices. But even as he warned the general, Djukanovic tried to smooth his feathers and perhaps sway his loyalty. He said the army, a fine and honorable Yugoslav institution, was not the problem. The problem was Milosevic.
To find out why Nato was again bombing its supposed friend, I called Robert Gelbard, the United States special envoy to the former Yugoslavia, in Washington, who was eager to explain. As I quickly learned, he is the State Department's leading cheerleader for Djukanovic and talks to him nearly every day on the telephone. (He invited the Montenegrin to Washington last year and has introduced him to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Sandy Berger, the national security adviser.)
Gelbard said he had already been on the phone that morning with Djukanovic, reassuring him that the bombings were merely a response to the Second Yugoslav Army, which had fired a land-to-air missile at NATO planes flying over Montenegro on their way to Serbia. The strike was not part of a new offensive campaign. "From the very beginning of the air campaign, we knew -- and we let Djukanovic know -- that there were certain minimal army targets that we were going to have to hit in Montenegro," he said.
Gelbard then shifted conversation away from the awkward matter of bombing his friend and talked about what the Clinton Administration was doing to help Djukanovic. It had just decided to give the Montenegro Government $10 million to help pay for pensions, salaries and social programs. American money, via the United Nations, was also helping to pay for the care of the estimated 35,000 Kosovar refugees who have poured into the republic. In addition, he said, Washington had exempted Montenegro from economic sanctions growing out of the crisis and was urging Congress to approve large business loans for the area. And it was training Montenegrin diplomats and granting American landing rights to Montenegrin Airlines.
"We don't support secession or independence for Montenegro," he said, "but we do support what Djukanovic is doing. He has support at the highest levels in this Administration. His politics and his economic policies are a good model for all of Yugoslavia and a particularly good model for the opposition inside Serbia." But Washington, he added, had cut no deal to bail out Montenegro in case the Yugoslav Army attacks.
Djukanovic's game of chicken was still on.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The independent-minded President making his case to the author earlier this month.; NATO bombs have hushed the hurrahs of Djukanovic's inaugural celebration in January 1998. (Wade Goddard/Sygma, for The New York Times; Mrdja/Sipa Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (53%); MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (74%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; MONTENEGRO; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (53%); MILAN, ITALY (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); RELIGION (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; DJUKANOVIC, MILO (PRES); GELBARD, ROBERT S (ASST SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



522 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 42; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7691 words

HEADLINE: Sound Bites Over Jerusalem

BYLINE: By Adam Nagourney; Adam Nagourney covers politics for The Times.

 BODY:
It was a warm and sunny saturday morning, the heart of the Sabbath, and most of Jerusalem was shuttered -- except for a second-floor corner suite in the King David Hotel, looking out over the Jaffa Gate and the rough stone walls guarding the Old City. Inside, the fax machine beeped, a cell phone trilled and Israeli newspapers and campaign memos were scattered across the floor. An easel displaying scribbled poll numbers was perched in a corner, and dirty plates, half-filled coffee cups and wineglasses littered the tables, the remnants of 12 hours of breakfast and dinner meetings. There was no sign on the door, but the suite served as the headquarters for the re-election campaign of Benjamin Netanyahu, the Prime Minister of Israel, if only for one reason: Arthur J. Finkelstein, the Republican political consultant from the United States, was in Jerusalem today, and this is where he was staying.
Finkelstein himself seemed tense and preoccupied as he opened the door to his suite. Netanyahu's main opponent in the May 17 election, the Labor Party candidate Ehud Barak, had recently announced on television that, if elected, he would withdraw all Israeli troops from Lebanon by the middle of 2000. "His secret plan to end the war in Lebanon -- it's absolutely Nixon," Finkelstein says caustically as he pours a cup of coffee, recalling Richard Nixon's 1972 promise to end the war in Vietnam. Barak's pledge was sketchy, but coming at the end of an anxious week in which three Israeli soldiers died in Lebanon, it had captured the public's attention. 
 Even before he left the United States for Jerusalem, Finkelstein had ordered the Likud campaign into action: it conducted a poll of Israeli voters on Barak's pledge and his party's surprisingly vivid suggestion that Netanyahu was "stuck in the Lebanon mud." The results were waiting for Finkelstein when he checked into the King David. By a margin of "better than 2 to 1," Finkelstein says, voters saw the Barak declaration as politics as usual. This finding guided the response Netanyahu and Finkelstein scripted that weekend. The Prime Minister would not even pretend to address the issue directly, but would instead attack the character of his opponent for raising it, underscoring what Netanyahu wants to be the campaign's central question: Which of these two men is tough and steady enough to assure Israel's survival?
Over the course of the weekend they drafted the slogan, "Ehud Barak: Too Many Ambitions, Too Few Principles." By Monday morning -- with Finkelstein back in the United States -- those words would be posted on the wall of Netanyahu's party headquarters, published in his newspaper advertisements and incorporated into the daily talking points that guide his cabinet ministers' conversations with Israeli reporters.
Finkelstein did not know it, but the attack he was responding to that weekend was largely the handiwork of another American political consultant, one he has never met and does not particularly admire, but who is also working in Israel this spring. James Carville had flown to Tel Aviv two weeks earlier to join Bob Shrum -- one of two other Washington consultants working for Barak -- to present the American recommendations on how the Labor Party challenger could boost his struggling campaign. Seize control of the daily debate, said the Americans -- Carville, Shrum and Stanley Greenberg, who was President Clinton's pollster in 1992 and is Barak's pollster now. Speak in short, declarative sentences and jettison the bulky arguments that had been the quaint mainstay of Israeli political dialogue. Every interview, every speech, must include a fundamental assault on those parts of Netanyahu's record where three months of polling had found voters' reservations to be most pronounced. "Netanyahu," said Carville, "is stuck." He was stuck on the economy, stuck on the peace process, stuck in how he ran his Government. And. . .stuck in the Lebanon mud.
American consultants have been flying in and out of Israel since Prime Minister Menachem Begin called in David Garth of New York in 1981, playing a low-key (and not particularly significant) role in how campaigns are conducted. But this year's contest -- which many politicians think will most likely be decided by no more than a percentage point or two and seems sure to result in a June 1 runoff -- is different. Sound bites, rapid response, repetition, wedge issues, ethnic exploitation, nightly polling, negative research, searing attack advertisements on television -- the familiar tools of American elections have now arrived in the Middle East. The 1999 contest for Prime Minister of Israel is providing a stage for a struggle between the seminal Democratic and Republican consultants of the past 15 years, the principal architects of what has become the signature American style of political discourse -- one that rewards simplicity over complexity, shock over substance and Election Day victory over governing and nearly everything else. (The third major candidate in the Israeli race, Yitzhak Mordechai of the new Center Party, has not retained his own American consultant for one reason, an aide said: he can't afford it.)
The evidence of the Americans' influence piles up with each passing campaign day. An Israeli news cycle hardly ever goes by now without Barak describing Netanyahu's Government as "stuck," as Barak tries to anchor the election in domestic and economic issues. Or without Netanyahu calling Barak a "leftist" or weak, as Netanyahu for a second time presents himself as the candidate best able to assure Israel's security. Both sides' attacks are the products of exhaustive surveys and focus groups. The orientation of Barak's campaign staff even includes a viewing of "The War Room," the 92-minute documentary that glorified the tactical inner workings of the 1992 Clinton campaign; Carville flew in to officiate after the Barak war room opened in a nondescript office building in southern Tel Aviv.
Finkelstein, Carville, Shrum and Greenberg are treated as something of celebrities in Israel, almost as likely to end up on the front pages of the local newspapers as the candidates themselves. In this environment, should it really come as such a surprise to learn that the less-than-telegenic Ehud Barak has started to bring a makeup artist with him on his campaign trips? Or that in assailing Netanyahu, Barak has invoked the line "too many lies for too long" -- the very same slogan that Democrats in the United States used so successfully last fall against another Finkelstein client, Alfonse M. D'Amato?
In America, the notion of politics as spectacle may be distasteful and dispiriting to watch, but it is hardly a threat to the Republic. Israel, however, is a young and still somewhat tentative nation -- Arthur Finkelstein was 2 years old when the independent State of Israel was founded in 1948 -- and it is embarking on only its second direct election of a Prime Minister. It's a place where teachers snap a gun onto their waistbands for protection before taking children on an outing in the country, and where shoppers carrying knapsacks are routinely searched going into a supermarket to make sure they're not about to deposit a bomb next to the cereal boxes. It's a place where citizens flick on the radio every hour to hear if a soldier they know has been killed in Lebanon, and animosity between Jew and Jew -- between the Sephardim and the Ashkenazi, between the secular and the religious -- can be as raw as that between Arab and Jew. In Israel, the pace of the impending election can be measured by the rise in random stabbings around the Jewish and Muslim quarters of Jerusalem.
Israel is, in short, a nation that passes most of its days right on the edge -- riding 4,000 years of religious, ethnic and tribal turmoil. The American consultants describe this overstimulated and chronically anxious environment as more intense than any they have worked in before. Elections here are literally fought over life-and-death issues, and so it is that many Israelis are coming to believe that something disturbing is happening to their political system this spring.
Yaron Ezrahi, a professor of political science at Hebrew University, says the new style of campaigning has created "a distorted and irrelevant form of politics" -- an unhappy and increasingly prevalent view of the new Israeli political landscape that would certainly sound familiar to anyone who has followed the evolution of American elections. "Because of the Americanization of the campaign, it boils down to slogans instead of to substance," says David Bar-Illan, a former editor of The Jerusalem Post who is Netanyahu's director of communications. "And nothing is more typically American than boiling down issues to slogans and really almost emptying them of meaning."
Be happy, ladies and gentlemen!" James Carville looms over his salad in a small Italian restaurant on a side street in Tel Aviv, swirling a second tumbler of Scotch. His audience is a table of Israeli and American political consultants working for the Barak campaign, and Carville has just learned that Netanyahu boasted on television the night before about a sunny new round of economic statistics. "Mr. Netanyahu says it's over, we're all rich!" Carville proclaims to the rather startled patrons of Pronto, his eyes wide and darting around the room, and his Louisiana accent stretched out by the fatigue settling in after 18 hours in the air. "We're on Wall Street! Beverly Hills! The land of milk and honey! Moses has found it!"
Carville, in the fifth hour of only his third trip to Israel, paused to make sure that he had not crossed any lines, as Israelis turned in their seats to take in this uniquely American show. "Milk and honey!" he continues exuberantly. "Netanyahu has willed it and deemed it. We are here -- finally. After all these years, 4,000 years. We're here now and Bibi has led us and we are fine. We don't have 12 percent unemployment, because he says we don't. We don't have a divided nation, because he says we don't. We don't have money going to yeshivas for the haredim, instead of schools, because he says we don't. IT pause IS pause ALL pause FINE."
For a moment it seems like a late February night in 1992 at the Sheraton Wayfarer bar in New Hampshire -- except here James Carville is talking about yeshivas and ultrareligious Jews. These Tel Aviv diners have just heard a dress rehearsal of the campaign that Carville and Shrum will direct against Benjamin Netanyahu in the weeks ahead.
It is hard to imagine two more distinct and politically influential characters -- stylistically, personally and ideologically -- than James Carville and Arthur Finkelstein. Carville is delighted by the attention he has attracted in Israel, just as he has luxuriated in his celebrity since 1992, when the American television cameras first picked out his lanky figure and bizarrely expressive face in the entourage surrounding Bill Clinton in New Hampshire. Partly because of his continuing association with an American President, and partly because of his seemingly ceaseless presence on television, Carville is recognized in Tel Aviv almost as readily as he is in New York. The first time Barak appeared with his American team, the candidate was reduced to the role of onlooker at his own news conference by reporters clamoring for a word with the famous and funny friend of President Clinton.
Arthur Finkelstein flees public exposure just as surely as James Carville embraces it. A few hours earlier on the day Carville put on his impromptu show for those restaurant patrons, a very different scene had unfolded 30 miles to the east, at the King David Hotel in Jerusalem. Arthur Finkelstein had checked in for a weekend of meetings with Netanyahu. The visit of the American whom the newspapers irreverently call "the Mysterious Arthur," and who uses an assumed name when he registers at a hotel, was unannounced, as always. But this time, an Israeli photographer, tipped off to his presence, waited in the lobby for five hours until Finkelstein emerged from the elevator. The next morning, simple photographic evidence of Finkelstein's existence in Jerusalem merited a spot on the front page of Maariv, one of the nation's main newspapers.
Finkelstein has vigilantly fought public exposure since he entered American politics in 1964, working for a Republican Congressional candidate from Queens the year that Barry Goldwater lost to Lyndon B. Johnson, an outcome Finkelstein laments to this day. He resisted the curiosity that mounted after he helped direct D'Amato's election to the Senate in 1980 by disparaging Senator Jacob Javits, a venerated Republican from New York, as old and ailing. And he kept his enigmatic distance through the 1980's, as his reputation as a devastating strategist and pollster grew with each new victory -- before beginning to fade in the mid-1990's with a series of equally ignoble defeats.
At once brash and shy, Finkelstein craves recognition for his accomplishments, yet detests attention and resents the way he is depicted in the American press. "I'm portrayed as a cartoon," he says. Yet he has not done much to counter that impression. He hates speaking in public and resists being photographed. At Finkelstein's insistence, his 1996 contract with the Likud Party reportedly included a provision that prohibited anyone from disclosing his position in the campaign, though inevitably, word of Netanyahu's secret American consultant leaked out. Despite his best efforts, Finkelstein has become an extraordinarily public figure. His name is even used as a verb to describe American campaign tactics. "People in focus groups will talk about Finkelstein," says Stan Greenberg, a note of amazement in his voice. "This is the only country in the world I've been to where they talk about the consultants by name."
In the last election Netanyahu suggested that Finkelstein keep a low profile, but the Prime Minister has reconsidered matters in 1999. Netanyahu, who lighted up at the mention of Finkelstein's name as he sipped espresso in his office in Jerusalem a few weeks ago, said he had advised his American adviser to dispel his rather severe image by allowing himself to become better known. "I thought it was important to demystify him," Netanyahu says, toying with a cigar on his desk that he chose not to light after he took note of the presence of a magazine photographer in the room. "It's very funny: he's just a very nice and warm and actually very likable person, completely antithetical to this demonic, manipulative, craven personality that you see in the press." And so, Finkelstein has met with 10 or so of Netanyahu's cabinet ministers, and agreed to sit down with a tenacious 27-year-old Israeli journalist, Boaz Gaon, who had been lobbying him for three years for a meeting.
Not that Finkelstein is happy about it. He was smiling when he opened the door to his suite for an interview one Saturday morning, but he still had the look of a man who was about to settle into a dentist chair. "I don't want this," Finkelstein says, gazing out his window at the mountains of Jordan in the distance, from a room in which he can hear the first Muslim calls to prayer before sunrise, relayed over the screechy speakers mounted atop mosques across the Old City. "I'm shocked by your interest," Finkelstein continues. "In fact, I am appalled."
There are, Finkelstein's friends say, two reasons why he has chosen to remain behind the curtain. The first is that Finkelstein, who has been running campaigns longer than any other national consultant working today, adheres to what has become an old-fashioned view of the business in the age of the war room and the Sunday-morning talk circuit. Consultants, he argues, receive too much attention and too much credit. "I think I'm the playwright or the director, and not the actor," Finkelstein says, pouring a guest a cup of coffee. "And the actors need to be onstage, not the director. And I think it's absurd that people who do what I do become as important, as celebrated, as the ones who are running."
The second explanation for Finkelstein's reserve is that he is intent on guarding his private life. Three years ago, he agreed to what he now asserts was an off-the-record meeting with a reporter for Boston Magazine; the sessions produced a published account that Finkelstein, who has more than once represented clients who were against gay rights, is homosexual and lives with his partner in Massachusetts. The disclosure encouraged more unwanted scrutiny. For Finkelstein, who resists even simple questions about how many siblings he has (two brothers), the Boston Magazine story was, his friends say, mortifying.
In shunning attention, Finkelstein is apt to dismiss the notion that he altered the Israeli political terrain. In some of his more cantankerous moments -- there are many -- he even disputes the suggestion that he is one of the reasons that Benjamin Netanyahu is Prime Minister of Israel today. "The elites were appalled that he" -- Shimon Peres -- "lost, so they needed a reason," Finkelstein says. "It couldn't be that Netanyahu was good, or that people believed in the candidate, so it must be something ominous. Remember, Netanyahu won last time by what, three-tenths of a percentage point? Had the bob of a head been the other way, he would have lost, and the elites would have said how Finkelstein didn't know anything and he destroyed Likud, blah, blah, blah. It is so silly."
What's a view of the last election that Finkelstein may be alone in holding. By almost every account -- including those of Netanyahu and Barak -- Finkelstein has had a profound effect on the way campaigns are conducted in Israel since he packed 32 years of American political skills and experience into his suitcase and flew into Tel Aviv airport three years ago. In the United States, he is known as a consultant who demands broad authority over the campaigns that seek his counsel -- "I've got to act like chairman of the board," he tells his clients -- and the pattern has followed him across the globe. Finkelstein was hardly an incidental player in the 1996 campaign. "Listen to him because he's talking for me," Netanyahu told his staff.
To appreciate the extent to which Finkelstein and Netanyahu rewrote the rules of Israeli politics, it is necessary to understand two central facts about the nation's electoral system. In 1996, for the first time, Israelis voted directly for Prime Minister rather than casting a vote for their preferred political parties. The person who became Prime Minister was generally at the top of a list of candidates prepared in advance by the party that wins the most votes. This switch from parliamentary to popular vote made the candidate for Prime Minister the focus of the election, and put a premium on personal appeal and television skills. By 1996, Netanyahu had appeared on "Nightline" virtually as often as James Carville; no other Israeli politicians could match his ease before the camera. It would have been hard to envision an electoral reform that played more to Netanyahu's strengths, or to Shimon Peres's weaknesses.
The other thing to keep in mind are the restrictions imposed in Israel on political advertisements. Television commercials are permitted only in the final three weeks of the campaign; before that, candidates and parties are restricted to a limited number of billboard and small newspaper advertisements. Once the television campaign begins, the ads are shown nightly, in a single block of varying length. Before 1996, the parties used this time for unhurried, literate advertisements, devoted to the issue of the day. The advertisements would usually appear exactly once, and every night, campaign staffs would head to the editing machines to produce a new ad for the following evening, often responding to what the opposition just said. Israelis settle in to watch this nightly block, which begins tomorrow, as eagerly as if it were, say, a season-ending episode of "Ally McBeal." The process provided for what was, in effect, a rolling, nightly debate.
The custom struck Netanyahu as absurd. "The way political campaigns were run in Israel -- including ones I took part in -- was bizarre," Netanyahu says, "because we wasted a lot of energy to-ing and fro-ing and not getting the message through. And therefore I sought to bring in American professionals who could help focus the message." The American professional whom Netanyahu brought in was Arthur Finkelstein, who promptly decreed that the campaign would produce a handful of short, simple ads and broadcast them over and over, day after day and even back to back on the same night, just as it was done in the United States. "Arthur used to hold a videocassette and say, 'We can win the election with this one only,"' says Ron Assouline, an Israeli who produced advertisements for Netanyahu in 1996, and is working for Barak this year.
The ads were provocative and constructed on an unwavering message: that Netanyahu alone could guarantee the nation's security and survival, that peace could come only through strength, that "Peres will divide Jerusalem." The most oft-repeated advertisement was only 15 seconds long; it displayed an animated glass wall which slowly shattered to reveal a film clip of Yasir Arafat leading Peres by the hand up a set of stairs. "A dangerous combination for Israel," the announcer said. A second ad was 25 seconds long, and depicted the smoky aftermath of the bombing of the No. 18 bus in Jerusalem, one of a series of Palestinian terror attacks that set the stage for the election that followed the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin. "No security. No peace. No reason to vote for Peres," the announcer said over the chilling wail of police sirens. It was unlike anything the Israeli electorate had ever seen before; the ad seized on an event that had traumatized the nation, presenting a case for Netanyahu's candidacy in the most stark and arresting manner imaginable.
"Survival of Israel has always been the No. 1 concern," Finkelstein says, explaining the rationale of Netanyahu's candidacy and, really, his entire prime ministry. "It has been since the very beginning of this country, and it still is. Because unlike in the United States, where we have a plethora of issues, here we have one core fact: That tomorrow they could cease to exist."
Everything in the Netanyahu campaign reinforced that appeal. No matter what Shimon Peres said about Netanyahu, no matter the pressure from more traditional Likudniks, who every night questioned Limor Livnat, Netanyahu's campaign manager, about the unfamiliar tactics being dictated by an American political consultant 5,000 miles away. The campaign stuck to its script, confirming its progress with nightly polls that led Finkelstein alone to predict Netanyahu's victory almost by the precise margin. "When he came to us with this idea, I said, 'Oh, my God, how come we didn't think about it before he came?"' Livnat says. "It looks so obvious. But I had to struggle every night to convince them" -- the other Likud leaders -- "this was the right thing to do."
Finkelstein asserts that the limits imposed by the Israeli system, which he curtly describes as "a throwback to the old socialist world," made it impossible for him to do in Israel what he does in America. "You can't bring American techniques to Israel," he says. "It's a whole different field of play here." But that restrictive political environment, Netanyahu says, put a premium on Finkelstein's communication skills and made him central to the victory in 1996, and it is why he has kept the American so close at hand ever since. Netanyahu calls Finkelstein the "needle" that allowed him to thread his "contrary message" through the narrow opening left by a restrictive political system and a hostile press corps.
The ultimate proof of Finkelstein's influence would come after Labor absorbed the shock of its loss. There was no doubt how the party would approach a rematch with Netanyahu. It would start with American political consultants. "In 1996 we were attacked and attacked and attacked and we didn't answer," says Tal Silberstein, a 29-year-old industrial engineer who is managing Barak's campaign, speaking from the Barak war room. "It's not going to be that way any longer. We're not going to let them accuse us or General Barak without a very quick and harsh and blunt response."
Jaunty and confident, Carville, Shrum and Greenberg settled in before the television camera to discuss the campaign with an Israeli journalist. It was mid-December, the first time the three Washington consultants to Barak had been in Israel at the same time, and the fact that they were about to discuss their roles on national television signaled how rapidly things had changed in Israel. Before this interview, American political consultants, mindful of Israeli candidates' sensitivities about being too closely associated with them, had lain low. Already, half a year before the election, Netanyahu advisers were implying White House meddling in an Israeli election, given the close ties between the United States President and Barak's three consultants. (Shrum was one of the main speechwriters for Clinton's State of the Union speech this year.) And Barak supporters were countering that Finkelstein had excessive influence on the head of government.
But in a country where there is a Planet Hollywood overlooking the Mediterranean, and where Bruce Springsteen songs roar out of passing taxis in Jerusalem -- indeed, where American culture is far more celebrated than it is scorned -- how upset would the public really be over one more foreign import? So Carville, Shrum and Greenberg registered under their own names at their seaside Tel Aviv hotel. The Barak campaign invited a photographer to take a picture of Greenberg eating falafel. The trio even held a public seminar devoted to the subject of the modern campaign. There was calculation in all this openness. "We sent them all over the place to do interviews," says Alon Pinkas, one of Barak's Israeli advisers. "As opposed to the shadowy, back-room, smoke-filled Arthur Finkelstein."
But that first television interview provided the Americans with a taste of the complexities inherent in their newest assignment. What, the television journalist Haim Hecht asked Carville as the cameras rolled, was his view of how Barak handled the military training accident at the Ze'elim training grounds seven years ago, in which five soldiers were killed by an errant missile? Newspaper accounts and Likud leaders had charged that Barak had fled the scene in a helicopter before the wounded were attended to, and Netanyahu supporters had been invoking the episode to portray Barak as weak. But Carville, one of the most nimble guests on the Sunday talk shows in Washington, was flustered by the query about his new client's record. He whispered a confused question to Stan Greenberg, seated at his side. "It's an accusation that's been cleared," Greenberg said uncomfortably. (Actually, that response was perhaps questionable at the time, though the state comptroller's report issued three months later would exonerate Barak.)
Hecht, speaking in rapid English, pressed on: What did Carville think of Aryeh Deri, the head of the ultrareligious Shas Party, the nation's third-largest? Deri was under indictment in a case that had come to personify the deep, tribal animosity between Sephardic (and mostly religious) and Ashkenazi (and mostly secular) Jews. Carville, flummoxed again, shrugged and offered a weak smile. "I don't know," he said. Bob Shrum intervened. "I don't think we pretend that we're somehow or other experts on Israel," he said. "We're here to help General Barak."
There was, no doubt, a scent of a journalistic ambush to the exchanges. As Carville said later, recalling the appearance, it was his first trip to Israel, and he could scarcely understand what Hecht was saying. But while the questions were sophisticated, they were also central to the campaign, and the faltering performance caught many Israelis by surprise. Israel is a country that is captivated by public events in general and politics in particular: 80 percent of the voting population participates in national elections, compared with 49 percent of registered voters in the United States. In a country with a population significantly smaller than New York City's, there are four major daily newspapers. People read about and analyze their government and its leaders every day, so Carville's apparent ignorance was noted. "It was not very impressive," says Shilo de-Beer, head of the news desk at Yedioth Ahronoth, the nation's largest newspaper. "It was a very straightforward question, like, 'Who is the press secretary of the White House?' It was an embarrassing interview."
The television appearance had been intended to show off Barak's American arsenal. Instead, it highlighted fundamental questions that have been raised about the transplanted American political talent. Are political skills transferable? Do tactics and strategies that work in New Hampshire work in Israel or, for that matter, in other countries where American campaign advisers ply their trade? Does a Carville or a Finkelstein really need to know who an Aryeh Deri is?
"The question is, does someone who comes from American political consulting, can he translate that to this?" says Netanyahu. "The answer is -- of course, if he's done enough of them. It's like a country doctor versus some guy in the Mayo Clinic. How many campaigns have consultants here done -- what, six, seven, eight elections at most? Somebody who has done hundreds of elections, a doctor who has performed hundreds of operations, he's better at it."
Barak makes much the same argument. "The Americans are good," he says, sitting at a table with Shrum and Carville. "The American political culture, they have elections, you know, it's a continuing process of election. Here we elect a Prime Minister and members of Knesset. Over there you are electing sheriffs, judges, Congress members. So an expertise emerged of running a campaign. And we don't have too much experience here. And I'm hearing from our best strategists, and best media teams, and best pollsters, they are telling me, 'Compared to Americans, we are amateurs."'
When Finkelstein arrived in Israel in 1996, his knowledge of the country's politics amounted to "what the average readers of The New York Times would know in New York," says Eyal Arad, who was a senior Netanyahu adviser at the time. It is an assessment that Finkelstein neither disputes nor apologizes for. "Look, it doesn't matter if I get it or not," he says. "If I go to Iowa, they'll say: 'How can you understand Iowa? You're from New York.' And I'll say: 'I don't need to understand Iowa. That's not the point. That's not what I do.' You find the intersections of interests -- you take a survey, you find out what people care about, you find out what your candidate cares about, you find the intersection of those two points, and that's what you talk about. What difference does it make if I understand it or not?"
That said, Finkelstein did spend five weeks of his 18th year working on a kibbutz near Jerusalem and shares the emotional identification many American Jews have with the country's struggle for existence. "I understood that being Jewish meant that we were always at the edge of extinction as a people," Finkelstein says. "And survival was a fundamental quest in the Jewish person. The reason that Israel was important was because it was a place for Jews to survive. It was a place for Jews to go. And remember, I'm very much a product of the postwar mentality, of the movie 'Exodus': there needs to be a place to go. And this was the place."
By contrast, Carville is Roman Catholic and has not, he says, made any particular effort to tutor himself on Israel's history and politics in preparation for this job. "The Israelis understand their history better than anyone else," Carville says, settling in for a nightcap by the dying embers of a fire at his Virginia farmhouse one January evening. "No one is going to say, 'Give me a 500-word essay on the causes, the strategies and the long-range results of the '67 war, the '73 war.' That's just not what's important. I mean, it's important but it's not important to my role. They are not looking to me for advice on Israel. They are looking to me for advice on communications, on organizations, on how to set things up, on how to respond.
"You've got to be careful," Carville adds. "I think in a campaign or a situation like this, when everyone else knows so much, I think there's a point in politics where knowledge becomes a burden."
And yet there is a case to be made that in Israel, knowledge is the most important, if not the only, tool for unraveling the tangle of religion, culture, tribes, politics, tradition and animosities that provide the backdrop for the nation's everyday existence. Carville, for example, was surprised to discover that candidates avoid campaigning on the Sabbath so as not to offend observant Jews.
Finkelstein, meanwhile, got an unexpected lesson when he helped Netanyahu come up with the slogan, "A Strong Leader for a Strong Country." It was tame stuff by American standards. But the Prime Minister was accused of invoking language reminiscent of Fascist propaganda, a demonstration in how memories of World War II remain vivid across much of Israel. When Carville and Shrum referred to their candidate as General Barak -- an elementary tactic designed to remind voters that Barak's military career argues against the portrayal of him as weak -- they, too, hit a cultural wall. "I'll take the chutzpah to give you advice, and I won't charge you for it," Haim Hecht told Shrum, Carville and Greenberg at the end of their televised discussion about "Ehud," as Hecht called the candidate. "Drop the 'General' bit. It won't fly here."
None of the American consultants speak Hebrew; in fact, only Greenberg and Finkelstein are Jewish, though some Israelis incorrectly assume that Shrum is, because of the sound of his name. "It's not a problem, except Carville is Southern," says Doron Cohen, Barak's brother-in-law and senior adviser, joking away the whole issue. "His Southern accent is almost non-English to us." But as a practical matter, the language difference creates a constant barrier between the consultants and their clients. A translator attends the focus groups organized by Labor pollsters. Shrum and Finkelstein tap out advertising scripts in English, which are then translated into Hebrew. The Americans awake to daily English translations of the Israeli newspapers and morning radio reports, and they each have a full-time, Hebrew-speaking American assistant on the ground to monitor events. Although Israeli firms make the actual nightly polling calls, it's Finkelstein and Greenberg who analyze the (translated) results -- an expertise that, they and their clients maintain, crosses language barriers and is one of the reasons they are considered valuable in Israel.
Yet inevitably, despite their best efforts, the Americans are working behind glass, unable to absorb street chatter or appreciate the stray magazine headline, the ambient clues that might signal the changing dynamic of a campaign. "I really don't see how someone who does not know the language and does not know the people can give advice," says Mina Zemach, an Israeli pollster. When Carville met with a group of Israeli political reporters the other day, he sat back in his chair, his eyes rolling in his head, as the reporters and Barak advisers argued in Hebrew over the ground rules of the briefing, one another's questions and even about Carville's responses.
The consultants also are not around all that much. Finkelstein came to Israel about six times in 1996, usually staying for two or three days on each visit, which amounts to barely twice the hours he spent on his commute. Carville has spent far less time in Israel than his Barak employees would like, as he juggles a presidential race in Argentina, a demanding television and speech schedule and rearing two young children with his wife, Mary Matalin, the Republican consultant -- who is, yes, a Netanyahu supporter.
Greenberg, meanwhile, is swimming in the transcontinental demands of his political portfolio. "I have the Scottish elections on the sixth of May," he said over breakfast after arriving in Tel Aviv from London in late February. "I've got this election on the 17th of May. I've got the South African elections, whose date is not firm, but whose date is either May 23 or May 29. In Britain, I've got the European elections and local council elections on June 1. And I've got the runoff here."
By American standards, the consultants are not paid a huge amount of money considering the time it takes just to get to work. In the United States, consultants typically get a percentage of campaign money expended on television advertising, a figure that in a big race can amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars. In Israel, Finkelstein says, he is paid $4,000 a month; Barak's campaign manager, Tal Silberstein, says the three American consultants will collect $400,000 among them for their work in Israel.
The traveling-salesman image of these consultants shapes the way they are perceived in Israel, and not necessarily for the better. "I am amenable to any questions, to whatever the campaign wants me to do," Carville said as he opened a news briefing one Sunday morning.
"As long as you are on your plane in two hours," responded a political correspondent for Yedioth Ahronoth, Nehama Duek, casting a pointed grin in his direction. Even James Carville was silenced by that remark; Duek was off by only 10 hours.
The American consultants have spent four months preparing for the 22 days leading up to the May 17 election, as well as the subsequent weeks before the likely June 1 runoff. Benjamin Netanyahu and his advisers have tried to turn the election into a referendum on who can best protect Israel's security, suggesting that Barak cannot stand up against a peace process that threatens to place a Palestinian state on Israel's eastern border. "Netanyahu: A Strong Leader for Israel's Future," asserts what will presumably be the Prime Minister's main re-election slogan, unveiled after Finkelstein visited Jerusalem just before Passover.
Barak and his advisers are trying to turn the election on Israel's sluggish economy. "I say to Netanyahu," Barak declared to an exuberant crowd of supporters late last month, "you haven't given a decent living -- you won't get votes. You haven't given housing -- you won't get votes. You haven't given education -- you won't get votes."
To critics of the Americans' role here, these last three weeks will be the climax of the conversion of a crucial electoral process into a political version of the Coke and Pepsi taste-off, a generic clash of American weapons and tactics, staged on foreign soil. The candidates and their consultants dispute this, of course, and there's no question that all parties believe in something more than victory for victory's sake. From the fiercely ideological Finkelstein, a libertarian who warmly recalls his tutelage under Ayn Rand, to the staunchly liberal Bob Shrum, a longtime friend of and speech writer for Ted Kennedy, the American consultants have strongly held political views. Throughout their long careers, each has worked only for candidates who will advance those views in government. For his part, Carville lets a look of total incredulity answer an Israeli reporter's inquiry as to whether he could see himself advising Netanyahu someday.
Finkelstein passionately advocates the Likud ideology, tying it to the conservative views he preached to his surprised Democratic parents over the dinner table, growing up in Brooklyn and Levittown, N.Y. "Netanyahu represents, in my view, a movement into 20th-century freedom concepts, as opposed to big-government concepts," Finkelstein contends. "Labor is the party of the old socialist wing. Likud represents the breakaway from the old socialist views." He adds: "I would not be good if I did this without some passion. I have to care about either the person I'm dealing with or the issues I'm dealing with."
But is this really the discussion Israeli voters have heard this spring? Do the tactics that the American consultants have grafted onto the Israeli political system allow for even a semblance of reflective debate? The spectacle of Americans in Israel has provided an entertaining story line for the election, shaped by Finkelstein's reclusiveness and Carville's antics ("Bring me some water and I'll turn it into wine!" the Louisianian instructs an Israeli waiter). But at what cost?
In the final days of the 1996 campaign, after Finkelstein's polling of the few remaining undecided voters found that the margin for Netanyahu's victory rested on a strong turnout among religious Jewish voters, Likud rolled out one more campaign slogan: "Netanyahu Is Good for the Jews." It was a sophisticated and precisely targeted variation of Netanyahu's security argument, a tribute to Finkelstein's keen ability to construct, in an unusually stratified electorate, a 50-percent-plus-1 margin of victory. It was also -- in the words of an American Republican consultant who admires Finkelstein's skills -- blatantly playing to near-primal tensions among Arabs and Jews, and secular and orthodox Jews, in Israeli society.
The future of Jerusalem is among a host of profoundly serious issues facing the country today. But that would be hard to tell from the campaign. Aware of how Netanyahu marshaled the issue last time -- "Peres will divide Jerusalem" -- Barak took the subject off the table virtually before the first campaign poster was printed, pledging never to accept a peace plan that partitioned the city that Israel calls its capital. And Barak's pledge to withdraw troops from Lebanon -- the promise that so annoyed Finklestein -- was notable for its presumably deliberate vagueness. Would he also yield the Golan Heights to Syria? Would he allow the Israelis in the north to be subject to missile attacks from Hezbollah guerrillas who operate along the Lebanon border once Israeli troops quit Lebanon?
In this new kind of campaign, such questions do not count for much. What matters is that Barak has forced Netanyahu to respond to him -- precisely the tactical advantage a campaign consultant seeks out at the start of work each day. "One of the keys to our success will be taking the initiative, independent of substance," Greenberg says. "Appearing to drive things is very important to establishing the leadership qualities that people seek in an Israeli leader."
There is a limit, finally, to how much anyone can adopt to a new environment, and Arthur Finkelstein and James Carville are nothing if not creatures of habit. Finkelstein is a man who would happily order the same supper at the same restaurant every night: steak, cooked blue-rare; fried onion rings; an Absolut gimlet. He approaches his campaigns the same way: his American candidates have run identical campaigns for the past 10 years, attacking Democrats for being, variously, liberal, ultraliberal, too liberal, embarrassingly liberal and unbelievably liberal. And he has stuck to this menu despite evidence that its time has passed, as Al D'Amato might attest from his private office in New York. Netanyahu this spring is assailing Barak, not surprisingly, for being too smollani for Israel -- that is, too left for Israel.
For Carville, it's the economy, of course. Barak is talking about jobs and health care, just the way another famous Carville client did back in 1992. "Right now, my guess is that economic considerations will be a bigger factor in this election than any election before," Carville says, an assertion that even some Barak supporters say ignores the reality of what ultimately drives every Israeli election.
No one would suggest that Israel is above the intellectual compromises and ideological shortcuts that are arguably the price for democratic elections. But David Bar-Illan, Netanyahu's director of communications, recalls campaigns framed by "hourlong lectures in stuffy town-hall meetings, or long harangues to public-square crowds" involving the major candidates for Prime Minister. "This almost doesn't happen anymore," he continues. "Now it's sound bites on television." While noting that his position in Netanyahu's Government prohibits him from commenting directly on the campaigns at hand, Bar-Illan suggests that sound bites and slogans often "catch an essential truth, the quintessence of your point," but inevitably discourage nuanced discussion. "If your slogan is, 'My rival will divide Jerusalem,' and it catches on and it stigmatizes your rival, you have achieved your purpose. It's not really a discussion of what should be done with Jerusalem or how am I going to keep it together and how is he going to split it."
Such tactics obviously work, says Uri Dromi, who was the chief spokesman for the Rabin and Peres Governments. But, he adds, they inevitably worsen the daily struggle to govern a nation "where the issues are so crucial, where everything is so serious, where everything touches the existence of the country. It is bad for the kind of discourse we have in this country."
Nevertheless, Israel has crossed a threshold this spring, and it is not likely to abandon the television screen to return to the stuffy meetings and public harangues of a few years ago. "I think the market for American consultants will expand before it contracts," Netanyahu says; it is a future that both he and Barak say they applaud. For now, anyone who finds this observation distressing can console themselves with the thought that one way another, a prominent American consultant will lose an election in Israel next month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carville (top) working the Tel Aviv war room for Barak of the Labor Party.; Finkelstein (top left) in Jerusalem for Netanyahu of the Likud Party.; Stanley Greenberg, President Clinton's pollster in '92, in his Tel Aviv hotel room helping to direct the campaign of General Barak, right.; Netanyahu, above, is banking on American consultants' ability to successfully parachute into a foreign political culture. Carville and his colleagues on the Barak campaign are also working races in Argentina, Britain and South Africa. (Top left: Photograph by Wendy Sue Lamm/Contrasto/Matrix, for The New York Times. ToP right: Yossi Zamir/Flash 90.; Photographs by Wendy Sue Lamm/Contrasto/Matrix, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); VIET NAM (69%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); VIET NAM (69%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); 

PERSON: CARVILLE, JAMES; FINKELSTEIN, ARTHUR; NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); BARAK, EHUD; NAGOURNEY, ADAM EHUD BARAK (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RICHARD NIXON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



523 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 48; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3692 words

HEADLINE: Tropicalia, Agora!

BYLINE: By Gerald Marzorati; Gerald Marzorati is the editorial director of the magazine.

 BODY:
At the time Claude Levi-Strauss was traveling through Brazil in the 1930's, a brilliant new generation of samba composers was emerging in Rio, writing popular songs as cosmopolitan as Cole Porter's. But Levi-Strauss -- who loved music, Italian opera and Stravinsky especially -- never noticed, or so you'd have to conclude from "Tristes Tropiques," his famous anthropological travelogue. Everything about Rio left him sad. Contact with the West had corrupted the tropics, he was convinced; Rio and Sao Paulo, too, where he taught for a time, were little more than modern urban ruins, their up-to-date streetscapes masking an epic loss of human difference. Only when he ventured deep into the interior, and encountered the Bororo -- the pure, unadulterated Other -- did he like what he heard. At night, the men of the tribe, naked except for straw penis-sheaths, shook gourd rattles and chanted in a low-pitched guttural tongue; the "intensity and quality" of the principal players was so remarkable, he wrote, "that no conductor of a large European orchestra could have surpassed them."
I found myself thinking about Levi-Strauss -- of his longing for "authentic" cultures untouched by Western modernity, and of his pessimism about the possibilities afforded by cultural commingling -- as I watched David Byrne one evening last month, hunched behind an up-to-datish stack of audio equipment, mixing together sound-bite-size samples and layering atop them stray electronic noises and pulsing digital beats in the way club D.J.'s do these days. Byrne is still best known as the singer-songwriter who propelled Talking Heads, the great art-rock band of the late 70's and early 80's, but for the past 10 years or so much of his energy has been devoted to introducing Brazilian popular music to America, chiefly through recordings released on his own independent label, Luaka Bop. It was mostly Brazilian music he was electronically mixing and matching that evening at the Lucky Lounge in Austin, Tex., where the annual South by Southwest music conference, the alt-indie music world's answer to the Sundance Film Festival, was in full swing. That the bar was packed with rock critics, music-industry hipsters and barely post-teen musicians in their T-shirts and Vans sneakers is a fairly good indication of how Brazilian pop suddenly finds itself the focus of America's late-90's vanguard. The music at pop's outskirts is not only ever more digitally driven but also increasingly panglobal, and with regard to this polyglot mixing, America's outre popsters have discovered that the Brazilians got there first. 
 Like Levi-Strauss, Byrne has done a good deal of fieldwork, and the composers and musicians he has been most passionately drawn to are those who emerged in the late 60's from Brazil's short-lived counterculture. They saw themselves as pop avant-gardists, and as part of a movement that also manifested itself in poetry, drama and visual art. They didn't create a new musical style so much as a new approach to music-making, combining the ambitious album-oriented rock then making its way to them from England and the United States with Brazil's various rhythm-thick musics and a variety of other ingredients, including difficult modernist poetry and weird found sounds. They wrote wildly prismatic lyrics about the ambivalence they felt concerning Brazil's more and more Americanized, consumer-oriented culture and careful (and eventually not so careful) lyrics about the constraints of living under a military dictatorship. They called the music they were making "Tropicalia," and they created three-minute songs that had all the jagged jump-cuts, wised-up art-about-art references and sheer pop lyricism of a two-hour Godard movie.
"What drew me to it was the sophistication -- the musical sophistication but also the sophistication they had about their situation globally," Byrne told me. "What was 'center,' what was 'periphery.' This sense that Brazil was still this place tied up with our notions of the exotic, the 'primitive' -- they were on to that, and in the music, they were combining all this stuff they were getting from us with other stuff and sort of throwing it back out there. Not in an angry way, but with irony and adventurousness, and with all those great rhythms -- which gives it its particular flavor."
A number of Brazil's greatest contemporary songwriters, including Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil, who went on to become huge stars in their country, began their careers at the center of Tropicalia, but their music has taken a while to arrive in America, and not just because the songs are in Portuguese. Only with the advent here of an appropriate-and-recycle, combine-and-recombine esthetic could the Tropicalistas' music -- along with the music of younger Brazilians they've influenced -- finally be heard for what it is: radically ingenious pop.
Beck, who perhaps is making the most ingenious American pop at century's end, has a song on his latest album called "Tropicalia," which borrows its weird noises and samba groove from a song by Os Mutantes (the Mutants), an arty Sao Paulo psychedelic band of the late 60's. That Beck titled his album "Mutations" was taken to be a homage of sorts by the kind of college-radio D.J.'s and hole-in-the-wall record-shop owners who are also into experimental bands like Stereolab and Tortoise and the High Llamas. For that matter, the members of Stereolab and Tortoise and the High Llamas are into the Tropicalistas, too. John McEntire of Tortoise told me recently, "Maybe we're finally catching up to them."
Next month, the members of Tortoise will be playing with Tom Ze, the most far out of the original Tropicalistas, as he begins his first nationwide American tour following the release here last fall of his critically acclaimed album "Fabrication Defect" (Luaka Bop). An album of remixes of Tom Ze songs by McEntire, the High Llamas and others, called "Postmodern Platos" (Luaka Bop), will also be released in the coming weeks, as will a sweepingly ambitious and densely percussive new album by Caetano Veloso, "Livro" (Nonesuch). Veloso is to begin his first big U.S. tour in June, about the time Luaka Bop is planning to release a selection of Os Mutantes' greatest hits, this following the rerelease earlier this year of the group's first three albums by the tiny Omplatten label, which is run by an owner of Other Music, a small record store in lower Manhattan that over the past year or so has been doing a brisk business in hard-to-find Brazilian-pop CD's.
What would appear to be an American moment for Tropicalia -- a moment entailing any number of remarkable musical border crossings and crossbreedings -- is perhaps most tellingly represented not by any list of album releases or concert dates but by a 30-second TV spot for Banana Republic. What you see is a montage of gently evocative images of very beautiful young men and women having very good times in very pale clothes. What you hear is part of a Brazilian pop song, sung by Arto Lindsay (in English) and Marisa Monte (in Portuguese). Lindsay's family moved from Virginia to northeastern Brazil when he was 3; he moved to lower Manhattan in 1974, and in the years since has developed a singular sonic-noise guitar style and has also been involved in the making of a number of the finest Brazilian-pop albums of the past dozen years. Monte was born in Rio, but studied Levi-Strauss's beloved bel canto in Italy before returning to Brazil and, in short order, emerged as a kind of third-generation Tropicalista; she is currently Brazil's leading pop diva.
That Banana Republic, a company that has worked hard to shed a brand image once steeped in fantasies of exotic adventure -- khaki shorts with lots of pockets, anthropologist chic -- would reinforce its new cultivated look with a song from Brazil is what some people might call a paradox. But I think, wittingly or not, that it represents something more, a recognition that "center" and "periphery" are becoming more proximate and less clearly delineated, that borders are growing more porous back and forth, that the Levi-Strauss-Lite differentiation of "world music" from pop music is making less and less sense -- that pop music, in its need to be made ever new (for that is its promise, and pleasure), is going omnidirectionally global, like everything else. Which is way Tropicalia.
For the Tropicalistas, mixing was in the blood. Nearly 40 percent of Brazilians identify themselves as mulatto, but in some ways that figure, astounding as it is, doesn't begin to describe the country's musical miscegenation -- a near-numberless variety of regional styles that fuse African tribal musics (the legacy of slaves), Portuguese ballads, Amerindian sounds, a variety of Caribbean styles (themselves hybrids) and the musics of more recently arrived European immigrant groups. In the towns and cities of Bahia in northeast Brazil, where most of the Tropicalistas grew up, the mixing, racial and musical, is especially pronounced, and by the time Gil and Veloso and Ze (and Gal Costa, who would later sing many of their songs) met in the early 60's at the university in Salvador, the Bahian capital, they were familiar not only with the reigning bossa nova style, which they played on their acoustic guitars and sang with their soft voices, but also with Carnival samba marches and accordion-based rural dance music and also the many foreign sounds the radio brought: Celia Cruz, Duke Ellington, Elvis. Only Ze was studying music at the university -- classical music with Ernst Widmer, a follower of Stravinsky -- but the university was something of an arts hotbed, with new schools of theater and dance as well as music, and the future Tropicalistas were exposed to, and grew increasingly interested in, modernist philosophy and esthetics. Put another way, they were getting the intellectual grounding of a typical contemporary American art-rocker.
Tropicalia emerged in Sao Paulo, where Veloso and the others had settled by 1966. It was there they met the members of Os Mutantes and also Rogerio Duprat, a classically trained arranger and producer who would be to the Tropicalistas what George Martin was to the Beatles. It was an uneasy moment in Brazil: the military, worried about a sinking economy and a restless left, had staged a coup in 1964, which the left protested bitterly and (from time to time) violently -- which led, in turn, to harsher crackdowns. Still, the old-line left, like the right, was nationalist and populist when it came to culture and to popular music in particular, since it was both the most distinctive and most democratic of Brazil's cultural manifestations. According to Christopher Dunn, who teaches Brazilian cultural studies at Tulane University and is at work on a book about Tropicalia, the young musicians gravitated to the "esquerda festiva" (festive left), a circle of artists, journalists and university students who detested the military regime and at the same time dismissed the Brazilian Communist Party as decidedly and hopelessly unhip. Like the generalissimos, the old lefties couldn't stand rock-and-roll, especially the newer, countercultural gringo rock-and-roll.
Veloso, Gil and the others arrived at a different idea about rock. They not only liked the Beatles and Bob Dylan and Jimi Hendrix, whose albums were making their way to Sao Paulo -- they also wanted to use their music, use it to break Brazilian pop out of its nationalist confines or, as Veloso once put it, to help create "an immediate posture of 'being in the world' -- we rejected the role of a third-world country living in the shadow of more developed countries." In their approach, the Tropicalistas were drawing heavily on the thinking of Brazil's modernist writers of the 20's, principally "The Cannibalist Manifesto" of Oswald de Andrade, an antiestablishment poet. Andrade urged Brazilian artists to devour foreign art and information along with their national canon and daily papers and then to "regurgitate" it all, creating new forms of transcontinental bricolage that would inherently comment on Brazil's place in the world. In today's pop terms, it was a call for global sampling and mixing -- and that's pretty much what it amounted to in the music of Gil, Veloso and the rest, once they began plugging in electric guitars and experimenting with different sounds and various sorts of poetry-inspired lyrics.
You can hear it, for example, in Veloso's 1968 rock anthem, "Tropicalia." (The movement's name was taken from an ambient-art installation constructed in the spring of 1967 at the Museum of Modern Art in Rio by one of Brazil's leading contemporary artists, Helio Oiticica.) The song begins with drums and strange sounds that could be bird cries -- Levi-Strauss's virgin tropics! -- followed by a voice declaiming a passage from "The Letter of Pero Vaz Caminha," considered the first literary document of colonial Brazil. Then amid slightly "off" Nelson Riddle-like horn bursts, Veloso juxtaposes allusions to Brazilian culture, past and present, high and low, before a quick cut to a rocking, syncopated northeast-Brazilian baiao beat signals the ironic, but not simply ironic, refrain that translates as:
Long live the forest la-la-land!
Long live the mulatta-ta-ta !. . .
Long live. . .Carmen Miranda-da-da-da-da!
Arto Lindsay, who like Byrne has been immersed in Brazilian pop for years, not only producing albums by Veloso and others but also making Brazilian-infused music of his own, explains the Tropicalia esthetic this way: "A lot of pop musicians in the U.S. and England were borrowing stuff from strange places in the 60's, but they were doing it the way musicians tend to -- blending it in to make it theirs, and in that way sort of hiding it. In Tropicalia, you let the rough edges show, that was the point. The meaning was in the juxtaposition. The juxtaposition said something about the world."
The Tropicalistas emerged as long-haired rock stars and counterculture prophets in Brazil not through radio or big tours but on television. TV stations in Sao Paulo and Rio held annual music competitions during which, for several evenings running, acts performed before juries of critics and record-industry people. These festivals were held in big theaters or arenas -- with boisterous audiences cheering on their favorites or booing -- and were carried live to the millions of Brazilian music lovers who gathered around TV sets at home or in bars. In October 1967, Gil and Veloso introduced the Tropicalia sound at one of the festivals, which until then had been dominated by bossa nova, and got themselves noticed pretty much the way any cutting-edge pop musicians do -- they were loudly cheered and booed.
The following year, at the International Song Festival in Sao Paulo, it got a lot uglier. Having decided to turn the event into an Event, Gil kicked things off with a raucous and clearly anti-military (and also anti-left) song called "Questao de Ordem" ("Question of Order") and was disqualified. Then Veloso appeared on stage with Os Mutantes -- who were dressed in plastic clothes and working up all sorts of electronic distortion and feedback -- and began to sing "E Proibido Proibir" ("To Forbid Is Forbidden"), which is a phrase he had taken from the protests of May '68 in Paris. He never got to finish the song: he was shouted down by the audience, composed mostly of more traditional leftist students who preferred "purely" Brazilian acoustic music and detested the rock, the plastic -- what they saw as pure libertine capitalist decadence. But before leaving the stage, Veloso delivered what sounds today like a Lennon-ist update of Andrade's "Cannibalist Manifesto." Shouting above the catcalls, Veloso declared: "You're out of it! You don't get anything!. . .If you're the same in politics as you are in music, we're done for!"
As a result of this incident and others that followed, he and Gil were done for, and so, as a tightknit movement, was Tropicalia. On Dec. 13, 1968, the military suspended habeas corpus and instituted a blanket censorship. Veloso and Gil were arrested before the year was out and imprisoned for two months before being sent into exile in England, where they remained for several years.
Twenty years after his banishment, on the title track of a brilliant album entitled "O Estrangiero" (Elektra Musician), which could be translated as "The Stranger" or "The Foreigner," Veloso looked back with dark ambivalence at the Brazil of that time and other periods from the vantage point of lower Manhattan, where he recorded the album with Lindsay and a number of other downtown musicians at what was the predawn of the American music vanguard's interest in Tropicalia. The song is long and loud and nightmarishly apocalyptic, and ends with Veloso singing, in English, "Some may like a soft Brazilian singer/but I've given up all attempts at perfection." It may be the clearest distillation of how he sees himself -- except the words aren't his. They're lifted from what Dylan wrote in 1965 on the back of "Bringing It All Back Home," the album on which he turned his back on folk purism and went electric -- that is, crossed borders, recontextualized things, adulterated.
Appropriate. Cut. Paste.
Tom Ze was on the phone from Sao Paulo not long ago, struggling good-naturedly through an interpreter to find the right metaphor for what is happening just now with Tropicalia in America. Echo chamber? Feedback loop? "All these things going back and forth, music and information, are so strange," he said. "I may pick up a phone and be talking to you, but also may pick up the phone and have a Brazilian journalist who had long ago forgotten about me now asking me, 'What is all this interest in your music in New York about?"'
Ze remained in Brazil after the military crackdown on Tropicalia, his music becoming increasingly experimental and iconoclastic through the 70's. He mixed the gentle strains of acoustic guitars with atonal passages and the sounds of floor polishers and bicycle pumps, and wrote lyrics that were often childlike and funny if deceptively political. (The dictatorship continued until 1985.) No one in Brazil seemed to get it, and even as Gil and Veloso re-emerged and became national heroes of a sort, Ze disappeared. By 1986, which was when Byrne discovered his records from the 70's in a Brazilian record shop, Ze had more or less stopped making music. "I was thinking of going in on this gas station with my nephew," he said, "when David Byrne calls me and says he wants to make a recording of my music for America."
Byrne had got into Brazilian pop only months before. "I know there should be an urban-myth version of the story," he said, "but I just went to Tower Records one night and bought a bunch of Brazilian records based mostly on which covers interested me. I liked a few of them. Not long after, I went to Brazil, where I found these records from an earlier period, Tom Ze and others, that were radical but not abrasive or ugly -- which, with my Northern or European understanding, is what I guess I assumed 'radical' music had to be."
Luaka Bop released a compilation of Ze's recordings from the 70's in 1990 and an album of new material two years later, but only with the release last year of "Fabrication Defect" did Ze really catch on here, with the album getting lots of college-radio play -- the infectious rhythms, oddball sounds and cut-and-paste texture of Ze's songs allowing for easy segues to any number of tracks by mix-and-match contemporary avant groups.
It may well be that global-scale mixing-sampling-layering is the only pop-music strategy that suits a quickened world of clicks and info-fragments, jumbo-jet migrations and hyphenated identities. So much of today's "authentic" pop, whether that of Nashville country crooners or gangsta rappers or bands staging patriotic rallies in Belgrade, is little more than exotic kitsch, conveying a romance with the unrecoverable, or worse. More than anything else, pop is about the embodiment of change -- in the music and in you -- and as a result, to keep making meaning, it must evolve. And for the most part it has done so through interbreeding. It is no coincidence that the cultures that have contributed most to pop's evolution -- those of the United States, Brazil, England and the Caribbean -- are those in which African and European musics have fused. Now what has been mostly intranational appears to be going international.
In England, groups like Cornershop and Asian Dub Foundation are scrambling more traditional Indian musics with hip-hop, punk and 60's guitar drones. Bands of this kind tend to be high-tech and ethnically and racially mixed, and at South by Southwest, there were others. A feverishly mix-match Hamburg group called Todos los Manos featured members from Chile, Brazil and Germany. And on the last night of the festival, I caught a spirited set by the downtown New York group Cibo Matto, which is essentially the creation of two Japanese women, Yuka Honda on keyboards and Miho Hatori on lead vocals, who mix Tokyo pop with Motown girl-group harmonies, dreamy electronic soundscapes and hip-hop beats. Rounding out the band were an African-American rapper and percussionist, a white male drummer and, on bass, Sean Lennon -- who happens to be a big fan of Tom Ze and did one of the tracks on the "Postmodern Platos" CD of Ze remixes. That neither Cibo Matto nor any of these groups makes music, not yet at least, with the intensity and quality of the Tropicalistas is a reminder that pop's evolution has always been patchy, and that Tropicalia really was, and is, something else.
"We are at the end, thus, of the composers' era, inaugurating the plagi-combinator era," Ze writes in the liner notes to "Fabrication Defect."
I wouldn't be surprised if someday soon, some kid in Ankara or Bombay or Calgary with an electric guitar -- or, more likely, a keyboard synthesizer, a digital sampler, a drum sequencer, two turntables and a microphone -- steals that line and sings it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: TV was the medium for the Tropicalista message: An announcement for one show (far left); Sergio Dias Baptista and Arnaldo Dias Baptista of Os Mutantes and Gal Costa (from left), Caetano Veloso (center) and Gilberto Gil (far right) live on another one in 1968.; Border crossings: Beck (left), arguably the mix-and-match master of American pop, has borrowed from the arty psychedelic 60's Sao Paulo band Os Mutantes. David Byrne (below) is responsible for bringing it all back home -- Tropicalia, that is.; Cool fusion: The Tropicalistas, like Os Mutantes (above), cut their musical teeth on everything from bossa nova to Duke Ellington to Jimi Hendrix. Arto Lindsay (left), always in the vanguard of music, has produced some of the finest Brazilian pop albums of the last dozen years.; Global harmony: The American band Tortoise (above) are fans of Tom Ze (right center, in 1968), the most far out (then and now) of the Tropicalistas.; East meets West: Cibo Matto (Tokyo pop meets Motown girl-group harmonies), with Sean Lennon, who is also a Tom Ze fan. (TV Show: Paulo Salomao/Abril Imagens. Beck: Kelly A. Swift/Retna. OS Mutantes: Carlos Brasil/Agencia JB.; Lindsay: Jack Vartoogian. Byrne: Marco Ankosqui/Folha Imagem.; Tortoise: Tibor Bozi/Corbis. Tom Ze: Jorge Renato/Agencia JB.; Cibo Matto: Dennis Kleiman/Retna.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS315224 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW TROUSER, SLACK & JEAN MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) SONG WRITING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); OPERA (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); FILM (62%); 

PERSON: BYRNE, DAVID; MARZORATI, GERALD CLAUDE GUSTAVE LEVI-STRAUSS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



524 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 27; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Surviving an Era Of Maoist Tumult With Calm Intact

BYLINE: By LESLIE CAMHI; Leslie Camhi's most recent article for Arts and Leisure was about the Spanish director Julio Medem.

 BODY:
Wu Tianming is well acquainted with the whims of fortune: During the 1980's, as an acclaimed director, he headed Xian Film Studio, the cradle of the New Chinese Cinema, which burst upon the international scene with the force of a revelation. Less than a decade later, he was reduced to running a video store in Los Angeles.
Today, Mr. Wu, at 60, is once again working as a director in China. On a recent visit to New York, he looked back on these twists of fate with remarkable good humor. What's the secret of his equanimity? "I'm very easy-going," he explained through a translator. "I have no heart and no lungs." Meaning? "I don't let things get to me. There's an old Chinese poem that says, 'If you've been through the big wave of the ocean, the quiet water of the river cannot disturb you anymore.' " 
 "The King of Masks," Mr. Wu's first film in a decade, opens in New York on May 9. Set in Sichuan province in the 1930's, it follows an itinerant street performer, Old Wang (Zhu Xu), who earns a meager living astounding crowds with his skill at "changing faces." Using elaborate sleight of hand, practitioners of this folk art change masks as if by magic. Master Lliang (Zhao Zhigang), a celebrated female impersonator in a local opera company, admires Wang's artistry, but Wang declines the offer to join Lliang's wealthy troupe. Instead, he longs for a male heir to inherit the secrets of his skill. On the black market, Wang meets Doggie (Zhou Ren-ying), a 7-year-old put up for sale by his destitute father. An ecstatic Wang buys him, but soon discovers that his new "grandson" is really a girl, an inappropriate heir and a worthless creature on the scale of China's social values. There his troubles begin. Doggie and Wang suffer extreme misfortune, but they're bound by love and by their common fate as outcasts.
A simple, sensitive film, "The King of Masks" draws upon Mr. Wu's deep understanding of rural Chinese culture. "He's a country boy," said Donald Gibbs, a professor of Chinese language, literature and film at the University of California at Davis, where Mr. Wu has been a guest lecturer. "He's very earthy and unpretentious. He speaks the language and understands the heart of mainstream country China in a way that city folks never will. That's his gift, that's who he is, and his films reflect that."
Mr. Wu was born in China's Appalachia, the poverty-stricken, agrarian north of Shaanxi province. He began his career in the province's capital as an actor at Xian Film Studio; in 1966, when the Cultural Revolution short-circuited his plans to study film in Beijing, he spent years at home reading about filmmaking in secret.
"Many educational books were destroyed, but film manuals were spared, because film didn't seem to matter much," he said with some amusement. "And then, there were so many books, the Cultural Revolution people could not burn them all."
During those dark years, Mr. Wu's father, a former revolutionary and devoted government official, died shortly after being jailed on trumped-up charges of treason. Mr. Wu himself suffered public humiliation. In his 1987 film, "The Old Well," a young man dies in a tragic accident; party officials attend the funeral to report allegations of his licentious behavior. "That's what those times were like," Mr. Wu said. "People would even accuse the dead."
When the Cultural Revolution subsided, Mr. Wu was finally able to attend the Beijing Film Academy. After graduating in 1976, he returned to Xian and received his first solo directing credit for "River Without Buoys" (1982), a spectacular popular success about three men who share their experiences of the Cultural Revolution as they pilot a raft down the Pushui River. Two years later he made "Life," which focuses on a village schoolteacher who is torn between his intellectual urban aspirations and his love for a peasant woman.
" 'Life's' appeal was so broad," Mr. Gibbs recalled, "that intellectuals and city people loved it, and peasants would place gifts of vegetables and poultry at the door of Mr. Wu's studio with notes saying, 'Please let us know what happened to the characters.' "
As the head of Xian Film Studio, Mr. Wu also promoted artistic freedom; he was open to the fresh ideas and daring approaches of younger directors. His film "The Old Well," about a man striving to find a new source of water for a village nestled high in stony mountains, starred a young actor named Zhang Yimou. Mr. Zhang is better known as a member of the "Fifth Generation" of Chinese directors, who got their start at Xian Film Studio and went on to capture world attention. Films like Mr. Zhang's "Red Sorghum" (1988), a sensuous rural epic culminating in the Japanese invasion; Tian Zhuangzhuang's "Horse Thief" (1986), an austerely beautiful film about Tibetan nomads in the 1920's, and Chen Kaige's "King of Children" (1987), which focused on a schoolteacher sent to the countryside during the Cultural Revolution, were all produced at Xian. Their spectacular visuals and unorthodox subject matter reflected a radical break with prevailing codes of Socialist Realism.
"The Fifth Generation drove home the idea that the official Socialist version of reality was not only boring but a lie," said Xudong Zhang, a Rockefeller Fellow in the humanities at New York University and a specialist in Chinese cinema. "They tried to uncover a deeper reality by inventing a new cinematic language, a new visual culture, and by turning our gaze to truths that had been concealed. Their utopian energy was directed against an ossified state bureaucracy. These Fifth Generation directors were not exactly political dissidents, however; for a brief period in the 1980's, the critique of Chinese tradition in their films fit in well with Deng's ideology of reform."
MR. WU was visiting the United States in the spring of 1989 when the events of Tiananmen Square unfolded. He remained in this country for five years. Returning to China to make "The King of Masks" in 1994, he found a culture in the throes of economic and social transformation. "I don't understand why, all of a sudden, Chinese people seem to have grown so cold," he said. "That's why I wanted to make this film, to show that love and warmth are more important than tradition or money."
China's new entrepreneurial spirit has had mixed results for the nation's vanguard cinema, which now finds itself competing with Hollywood products. Like many recent films by Chinese directors, "The King of Masks" was primarily financed by nonmainland sources, in this case the Hong Kong-based Shao Brothers film studio. Bottom-line concerns have not prevented the rise of a "Sixth Generation" of Chinese directors, however, whose documentary style and focus on private, ephemeral experience stand in sharp contrast to that of their predecessors.
Meanwhile, the irrepressible Mr. Wu keeps working. He has just completed China's most popular television soap opera ever, and is directing another -- 36 episodes about a century in the lives of three families living near the Yellow River. (He expects about 32 episodes to remain when the censors finish their work.) Like Old Wang in "The King of Masks," he changes faces but maintains a deep simplicity.
"That's the film's broader message," he said. "In life in general, you have to keep changing faces in order to survive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The director Wu Tianming at the Parker Meridien Hotel in Manhattan recently. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SHAANXI, CHINA (88%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: XIAN FILM STUDIO (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: XIAN FILM STUDIO (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SHAANXI, CHINA (88%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); LITERATURE (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); STREET ART (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



525 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 29; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1951 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
Apostle of Inner Struggle and Redemption

BYLINE: By PAUL GRIFFITHS

 BODY:
A WOMAN among composers; a freethinker among Soviet apparatchiks; a Christian among atheists; an Easterner, half Tatar, among Europeans; a modernist among reactionaries, and a reactionary among modernists: Sofia Gubaidulina has lived with many conflicts, both with the outside world and within herself. Her arrival, in her 50's and 60's, at moments of extraordinary musical power has been a triumph of persistence and self-searching. Ms. Gubaidulina, now 67, has become a great light, and her achievement has happily been matched by steadily increasing public recognition, which reaches a culmination in New York on Thursday evening, when two big new works will be presented almost simultaneously: "Two Paths," at Avery Fisher Hall, and "In the Shadow of the Tree," at Carnegie Hall.
"Two Paths," for two violas and orchestra, will be played by the New York Philharmonic, with its front-desk violists, Cynthia Phelps and Rebecca Young, as soloists and Kurt Masur conducting. The work was commissioned by Mr. Masur's wife, Tomoko, who was herself a violist. "In the Shadow of the Tree" also has multiple solo parts, but in this case they are played by one musician, Kazue Sawai, performing on Japanese instruments: koto (the floor-level plucked harp), bass koto and zheng (a similar instrument, but Chinese rather than Japanese and with a wider range). Here the commission came from the orchestra of Japanese radio, the NHK Symphony, which will be conducted by Charles Dutoit. 
 That both scores should be concertos is no accident. For Ms. Gubaidulina, the relationship between soloist and orchestra, whether combative or consolatory, provides an image of the individual in the world and of the truth to be found amid what she has called the "staccato" of life. And it was with a concerto, "Offertorium" for violin and orchestra, that she began to gain attention outside Russia. Composed in 1980, "Offertorium" was taken around the world by Gidon Kremer, who recorded it at the end of the decade. By then, thanks to glasnost, Ms. Gubaidulina was at last receiving official acclaim in Russia, but in 1992 she left for a new home in Hamburg, Germany.
"Offertorium" is typical of Ms. Gubaidulina's work, in that it is a journey through conflict toward new knowledge and illumination, it uses a wide range of musical means, and it justifies that range as a crucial necessity to a composer intent on immediate expressive force. She exhibits no commitment to fine style. The characteristics of her music are instead abruptness, ripped change and a finish that is often rough, raw and ragged. "Offertorium" sounds like a page torn ruthlessly from a book: a book whose subject would have to be the spiritual life. It even makes the tearing sound, as it breaks away from a Bach theme orchestrated by Webern -- two composers Ms. Gubaidulina reveres above all others -- and embarks on a quest for its own continuation and its own way to end.
Along the line of Ms. Gubaidulina's artistic journey, "Offertorium" was a message from halfway. She was born nearly 50 years before, in 1931, in Chistopol, the daughter of a Tatar-Russian couple. Her childhood years were spent largely in the nearby big city, Kazan, in an environment that the musicologist Theo Hirsbrunner has described in terms that surely came from the composer herself: "Life there . . . was rather uninteresting: no trees in the back yard, just a patch of grass here and there -- yet the sight of the sky with its passing clouds captivated the child. A buffoon played the accordion, and Gubaidulina danced to its music."
Dance, as an image of the body and therefore the soul in perfect tuning, has stayed with her; among her recent pieces is "Dancer on a Tightrope" for violin and piano, the latter mostly strummed. And the accordion has stayed, too, for several of her works use the instrument in its ethnic Russian form, the bayan. Even beyond these examples, many of her scores carry traces, in their long sustained tones and their orchestral clamor and wheeze, of the dancing girl and the folk musician.
Ms. Gubaidulina started her conservatory studies in Kazan soon after World War II and completed her education at the Moscow Conservatory between 1954 and 1963. She remained in the capital, though without much encouragement or support. Her regular studies seem to have been less important to her than the contact she made with Philipp Herschgowitz, a Webern pupil who was a vital source of instruction to young Russian composers at a time when anything in non-Russian music since Debussy was virtually proscribed. Her straying from "the bright, pleasant aspects of life" was noticed by an early reviewer, but Shostakovich privately expressed to her his hope that she would continue on her "wrong course."
She did. As a result, her works were rarely played and never recorded. As another result, she had to earn her living by writing film scores. Her achievements in this area include the music for Rolan Bykov's "Scarecrow" and a number of collaborations with Ida Garanina on animated films. But this sort of work was not a chore: it provided her with another kind of education, since the need to match music to gesture gave her a strong sense of how instruments can speak and how music can mimic physical action or, by extension, movements of the mind and spirit.
Neglect also proved useful to her, throwing her back on herself, alone or in the company of a few colleagues. With Alfred Schnittke and Edison Denisov, both recently deceased, she was a leader of the quiet musical opposition, and she made up for the lack of performances by forming an improvisation group with the composer Viktor Suslin and the ethnomusicologist Vyacheslav Artyomov, whose collection of instruments from the Caucasus and Central Asia gave the group a wide sound-world.
The works Ms. Gubaidulina wrote in the 1960's and early 70's already reveal her liking for the soloist-accompaniment format of the concerto, song or instrumental piece with piano, but not until the later 70's was she able to make her expressive purposes explicit. "Hour of the Soul," of 1976, was an early instance: a half-hour percussion concerto in which the soloist stirs up the orchestra; eventually a mezzo-soprano emerges, singing verses by Marina Tsvetayeva. Like most of Ms. Gubaidulina's pieces before and since, "Hour of the Soul" was written for a particular player, in this case Marek Pekarski, so that, in the composer's words, "only at the end does the truly feminine nature appear."
Ms. Gubaidulina would almost inevitably have been drawn to explore in her music issues of maleness and femaleness, and "Hour of the Soul" is by no means the only work in which she has done so. But she adopts a rather conventional position in expressing the contrast in terms of dynamism and stasis, rationality and irrationality, thought and feeling, and it would be hard to identify her musical voice as that of a woman and therefore unlike those of such contemporaries as Schnittke, Henryk Gorecki or Giya Kancheli.
"Two Paths," the Philharmonic work, looks at another polarity, for this double concerto is a double portrait of Martha and Mary, the sisters of St. John's Gospel. These were women who had, as the composer puts it, "two ways of loving: to love taking upon oneself worldly cares and by so doing insure the foundation of life, and to love dedicating oneself to the sublime, to experience together with the Beloved the route of terrible suffering to the cross, so as to procure light and blessing for life."
Wild gestures in the orchestra -- loud swirls and anapaest rhythms -- provoke a response from the two soloists, a response they deliver alone. The second viola, as Martha, starts in the middle register and almost at once slides down toward the bottom of the instrument's range. The first, as Mary, begins just above her sister and moves higher. Both sisters are not only much quieter than the orchestra but much slower and more centered, in keeping with the composer's archetypal view of sexual differences. It will be interesting one day to hear the work performed by male soloists with a woman conducting.
What follows is a sequence of variations. The orchestra returns to attack mode, and this time the violists' move together in response. Mary, in her higher register, makes downward slips; Martha, below, starts to lift, and the two flow side by side in duets. Then woodwind soloists enter the conversation. Once the unaccompanied viola duetting has been restored, the two soloists crisscross through pitch space over a percussive ostinato, and these mirroring upward-downward movements spread into the orchestra. After this tumult, the Martha violist settles on a theme she will hold to the end, while the Mary figure pursues her lyrical flights. A last cruel orchestral outburst does not stop them.
"In the Shadow of the Tree" also has a binary contrast, but now between whole ensembles. A little more than half the orchestral strings play in normal tuning, the rest being tuned a quarter-tone down. The koto and bass koto are aligned with the first group, as are the winds and tuned percussion instruments. (Ms. Gubaidulina, herself a percussionist, uses large percussion sections in both new works.) But the zheng's intonation places it with the "mistuned" strings, which are said to represent "a region of shadow."
The work begins in light and ends there, on the same note played on the koto with the kind of undulating insistence by which Ms. Gubaidulina gives her simple musical facts the force of freshness. But along the way, the shadow comes into its own, and the soloist is able to move from one side to the other. The shadow music is not particularly negative or sinister, and its effect is not so much to contradict the light as to gentle it. So one may come to understand, with the composer, "that shadow is the sphere of existence from which life emanates, and even light."
Initial contradictions -- between shadow and light, between Eastern and Western instruments, between improvised and notated music (in the solo part) -- come to seem less important than the equal necessity of both aspects. And though "In the Shadow of the Tree" may, from its title, contain some Christian reference, Ms. Gubaidulina's message lies at this other level, at once more abstract and more immediate. It is the same message she has always delivered in her best works, a message of fierce struggles and ecstatic coming home.
 
Gubaidulina, Strange and Powerful
 Sofia Gubaidulina has been getting more prolific and, at the same time, more powerful, more economical and more strange. Two of her recent works available in fine recordings are "Now Always Snow," for small-scale choral and orchestral forces, and "And: The Feast Is in Full Progress," her second cello concerto, both from 1993 and based on visionary poems by Gennady Aigi.
"Now Always Snow" begins as a light blizzard of overlapping voices and instruments and ends as a becalmed male-female duet with soaring violin. It is an exceptional piece, strongly presented by Dutch forces under Reinbert de Leeuw (Philips 442 531-2; CD).
The cello concerto also has an impressive performance, from David Geringas with the Finnish Radio Symphony under Jukka-Pekka Saraste (Col Legno 31881; CD).
Among many releases on the Bis label, one is particularly valuable for a selection of smaller pieces, including "Dancer on a Tightrope," with Gidon Kremer, as well as an improvisation by the composer and two colleagues, all recorded at the 1995 Lockenhaus Festival (Bis 810; CD).
Mr. Kremer's classic recording of "Offertorium" is on a Deutsche Grammophon CD (427 336-2). PAUL GRIFFITHS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sofia Gubaidulina, for whom soloist and orchestra reflect the relationship of an individual and the world. (pg. 29); Kazue Sawai plays koto with the NHK Symphony in New York in a new work by Sofia Gubaidulina. (ICM Artists) (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); 

PERSON: KURT MASUR (69%); AVERY FISHER (56%); CHARLES DUTOIT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



526 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 35; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Where the Shoppers Can Also Catch a Plane

BYLINE: By THOMAS HINE; Thomas Hine is the author of "The Total Package," about the meaning of containers, and "Populuxe," about commercial design.

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH

 BODY:
AMERICANS, it has been learned, are willing to buy underwear at airports. Also shoes, golf shirts, cosmetics, Caesar salad and stuffed animals. Especially stuffed animals.
One result of this discovery is a transformation of major American airports to increase the amount of retail space they contain and to make them more shopper-friendly. Airports, the last bastions of confident functionalism, are being remade as consumer bazaars, near cousins of the shopping mall. The proud drabness with which airports once sought to reassure passengers that everything was under control is giving way to the bright, attention-grabbing, brash brand imagery of some of the world's leading retailers. 
 In creating midways to the runway, retail developers rarely change airport structures, but by giving them color and some of the bustle and clutter of a marketplace, they are changing how airports feel. And because airport stores are highly lucrative, new airports are increasingly being designed with large commercial spaces at their heart. All three of New York's airports are undergoing or planning major makeovers that will increase the amount of space given over to food and retailing, and many other airports in this country have carried out or are planning similar projects.
At the vanguard of this movement is the Greater Pittsburgh International Airport, where the trend first took hold in 1992. The airport with the largest, most visible retail presence, it is a place where architects and retail managers come to learn the new rules of airport design.
For arriving passengers, the airport looks like most others. It appears to be an endless, low-lying building of concrete and glass, its walls bristling with prefabricated jetways. "Welcome to Pittsburgh" reads a perfunctory greeting, stenciled on a beam above the ramp as you leave the airplane.
But when you get into the concourse itself, you can see who is really happy you've arrived. Hanging from the skylighted ceiling above the moving walkways are brightly colored, four-and-a-half-foot-tall shopping bags bearing the logos of Victoria's Secret, Clinique, the Gap and other airport merchants. They have the look of pop sculptures, and they probably make more of an impression than the Calder mobile that hangs at the center of the terminal.
These suspended shopping bags upstage the pleasant-enough architecture of the terminal, an X-shaped building with shallow, barrel-vaulted ceilings. Similarly, at the center of the terminal, where the shops are clustered, the commercial design outdoes the architecture. Precast concrete doesn't have a chance when competing with the cherry-veneer art nouveau shopfront of Godiva Chocolatier or with the bordello look of the gilt and fuchsia Victoria's Secret.
"The days of building an airport as a secular cathedral are over," says Robert Weinberg, chairman of MarketPlace Development Corporation of Boston, which is planning a retail makeover at La Guardia Airport. In fact, only a handful of recent American airports have shown any architectural ambition at all. They have chosen instead to project an image of efficiency and quiet competence. Airport architecture has usually been about speed and movement, even though the airport experience is mostly about waiting and milling around. The in-your-face sophistication of retail design challenges the blandly competent look of the typical airport.
Retail developers are less concerned with the drama of airport architecture than they are with the quality of what they call "the airport experience." This translates into impeccable cleanliness, a calm, pleasant atmosphere that allows passengers to relax, and, most of all, a variety of high-quality, mostly national-brand retailers and restaurants, whose prices are the same as in their outlets outside the airport.
"Passengers are going to expect quality retail in an airport, and airports don't have any choice but to provide it," said Mark Knight, president of B.A.A. Pittsburgh, which manages the retailing at the airport. It is a subsidiary of the company that owns London's airports and is planning a retail makeover of terminals A and B at Newark International.
Newark is only in the early stages of design, says Mr. Knight, who is supervising it for B.A.A., but the company's goal is to get rid of what he terms the airport's institutional look. "Today you have the feeling of straight corridors leading to airplanes, with shops in glass boxes on the sides," he said. "We will try to introduce variety, stagger the shopfronts and let retailers project themselves more into the space."
The company is also planning a sprawling new terminal at London's Heathrow; it would be built around a retail center nearly as large as a regional shopping mall.
THE new airport design, much to the consternation of traditionalists, tends to contradict their longstanding goal of getting passengers from curbside to airplane as efficiently as possible. One new rule is that passengers must be forced to walk past the shops and restaurants. "Retailers want to create turbulence, to divert people from their paths," says Dan Peter Kopple, a Philadelphia architect who has worked on several airports.
Another rule is that retailers have to be allowed to use the graphics and imagery on posters and signs that they use elsewhere, tactics that are anathema to airport designers and administrators who have historically exercised tight control over what passengers see, on the theory that too much visual information is confusing.
In Pittsburgh, even where there are no shops, there are retail reminders, like those suspended shopping bags. Everywhere, posters remind passengers that they can buy food to take on the plane or use their time to do some shopping.
The biggest reason frequent flyers are becoming frequent buyers is that flying has become more time-consuming and less pleasant. Airlines have cut back food service on many flights to pretzels or less, creating a market starved for good, reasonably priced food. Hub-and-spoke airline routes mean more food-free flights and long stopovers. Security concerns have led airlines and airports to recommend that passengers show up earlier than they did before, thus increasing the time they could spend on shopping.
"Really serious security worries that make people edgy, or long delays that make them grumpy, don't encourage people to spend," says Mr. Knight. But, he acknowledges, "People are spending more time in airports, and we can offset some of the negative parts of flying."
Cesar Pelli, an architect who designed the renovation of Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, says he likes to shop in airports. "When I have to wait for a long time, I find it easier to shop than anything else," he said. But he sees danger when retailing is allowed to dominate the planning of an airport. "When the main goal is to maximize revenues from retailing, that can conflict with designing a good airport," he said.
Mr. Pelli's airport is in many ways the opposite of Pittsburgh's because it places civic expression first and retailing, at best, second. Among airport retailers, Washington National has become a prime negative example because most of its retail shops are clustered away from the busiest passenger thoroughfares. And the airport's configuration requires that this area be outside the security checkpoint, so passengers who find they have the time to browse are deterred from going back.
"I think Washington National is a fantastic building, but as retail it doesn't work," said Mr. Knight. "I don't see any reason why you can't have both. But airport administrators and architects will have to take retailing as seriously as they do the rest."
Retailing has long been an important component of airports that cater to international traffic because of duty-free business. In American airports with primarily domestic traffic, the situation was the opposite. Food was often overpriced and poor, and retailing consisted mostly of magazines and souvenirs. The first attempt to change this came about a decade ago in Portland, Ore., where a strong effort was made to provide good food and products to serve as a showcase for the region.
Still, when B.A.A. came into Pittsburgh seven years ago, Mr. Knight said, the question of whether retailing could work in domestic airports was still open. The company, which had been created in Britain in 1987 as part of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's privatization campaign, had already successfully expanded the retailing at Heathrow and other airports it owns, and it was looking outside Britain for more sources of revenue.
Pittsburgh's new airport terminal was a good place to start because it was designed to have a substantial amount of retail space right at the crossroads of its four concourses. About 70 percent of the passengers in Pittsburgh are changing planes at the U.S. Airways hub, so there are many people in transit who are looking for something to do. By abandoning airport retailers' traditional practice of gouging their captive audience and, instead, charging the same as at nearby malls, Pittsburgh airport became a reasonable shopping alternative. Parents buy "guilt gifts," like stuffed bears and bunnies; flight attendants patronize Victoria's Secret, and everybody eats or grabs food to take aloft.
Eleven percent of passengers surveyed at Greater Pittsburgh International Airport said they chose to change planes there because they liked the airport's facilities, primarily the stores and restaurants, according to Mr. Knight.
The 21 million passengers who use the Pittsburgh airport each year spend an average $8.35 per person, about $3 more than the national average at airports. For Pittsburgh, this is money falling out of the sky. And if travelers' preference for the airport draws more flights, revenues from landing fees -- the chief source of income for all airports -- also increase substantially.
For retail developers and tenants, the economics of airport retailing are extremely attractive. Mr. Knight said that Pittsburgh tenants' sales averaged about $1,000 a square foot of space each year. In a regional shopping center, revenue averages about $250 a square foot, he said. It costs more to do business in an airport, but exposure to such a large, affluent audience makes it worthwhile. "Airports are very predictable places to do business," said Mr. Knight. "We know exactly when people are coming, so you can plan your staff schedule. We know that the audience has above-average income, with a median age of about 42."
Still, while retailing is changing the way airports look and feel, it is unlikely to amount to more than 10 percent of an airport's square footage, and thus it remains only one aspect of the challenge of airport architecture. "An airport might look something like a mall," Mr. Pelli said, "but it will never be a mall."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Greater Pittsburgh International Airport, among the first to embrace the look of a retail mall, a big shopping bag advertising the Gap can hardly be missed. (Terry Clark for The New York Times) (pg. 35); A Victoria's Secret bag tries to lure shoppers in the Pittsburgh airport. (Terry Clark for The New York Times) (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (60%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (60%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (60%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRPORTS (94%); RETAILERS (90%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); COSMETICS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (76%); SCULPTURE (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); BRANDING (72%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (72%); MARK KNIGHT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



527 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Upscale Housing in a Downscale Cincinnati Area

BYLINE: By JOHN ECKBERG 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI

 BODY:
WHEN David C. Imboden bought his first waterfront house in the unfashionable East End neighborhood in 1987 he was struck by the stunning views of the Ohio River and the emerald hills of Kentucky. And, not incidentally, by the development possibilities.
Eventually he bought more than 200 pieces of property in this neighborhood about two miles east of downtown, before clearing part of it for the city's first high-end single-family housing on the river's edge in a century. Because of his vision, 21 two-story red-brick town houses -- 11 sold for $300,000 to $375,000 and 10 renting for $2,500 to $3,500 a month, with leases up to three years -- now line the shore. 
 The $4 million complex, called Riverfront East Condominiums, was built in 1995 and occupied in a year. It fulfills the expectation of city officials that the best way to revitalize this long-neglected stretch of waterfront is with houses for affluent tenants and buyers.
A tax abatement worth $1 million gives property owners a 10-year reprieve on real estate taxes. In addition, the city gave the project a $1 million grant for a retaining wall, brick sidewalks and water, sewer and gas mains.
The next phase of Mr. Imboden's plan, the $4.5 million Riverfront Terrace, is now under way, with 15 two- and three-story detached houses under construction on the north side of Eastern Avenue across from Riverfront East. Plans call for an additional four dozen houses if the market warrants construction.
The notion that river views could help reinvent this rundown neighborhood came to Mr. Imboden after a boat ride on the Ohio River in 1987.
"All of a sudden I looked up over the water and said, 'You know, I wouldn't mind buying one of those shacks,' " he said. He quickly found a "For Sale" sign and for $32,000 had a new home and a toe in the water of urban life. For nearly a decade, he said, he bought every property he could find, relying at times on his credit card for purchases.
"People called at all hours," he recalled. "Somebody might be going bankrupt and I'd say name your price. They'd say $30,000. Boom, I'd buy. At the time, there were shacks up and down the street. It didn't matter. I knew that housing here would one day take off." He said he had a hard and fast rule: He would not buy and evict and he would not jack up rents. "I waited for people to move and then I boarded the place up," said Mr. Imboden, who had previously renovated about 25 houses throughout the city.
The developer, now 42, settled into the East End by living in the house he bought after that boat ride. Not long before, he had quit his job as an inner-city football coach at Taft High School. He and a partner, Mark Meade, founded Alumni Builders and learned the housing business by constructing single-family houses for middle-income buyers in the suburban subdivisions between Cincinnati and Dayton.
HOUSING experts in Cincinnati say the riverside project will help reverse the steady trend of wealthy residents fleeing the city for the suburbs. For the city to thrive, said Dan Brady, president of Tri-State Mortgage Company, it needs suburban-style housing, and this bend of riverfront on the edge of downtown offers an opportunity for it to increase its home ownership rate. With national home ownership rates at about 65 percent, Cincinnati at 38 percent has a long way to go to catch up, he said.
"The problem is they have to find places to bring that number up." said Mr. Brady, a member from 1995 to 1998 of a Federal Reserve committee formed to study home ownership here. "The riverfront has some contiguous sites for development, whereas the rest of the city has spot lots that are not as appealing to builders and developers."
City officials intend to encourage projects like Riverfront Terrace, said Andi Udris, director of the city's Department of Economic Development. "There's no question one of the issues for cities like Cincinnati is the ability to retain its residents," he said. "The goal is to identify specific markets within the city for the large segment of people who want to be near downtown: the newcomers to the city who want to be close in but don't want high-maintenance units."
Riverfront East town houses have 3,000 square feet of living space, with three bedrooms, two-and-a-half baths, a master suite with Jacuzzi, an eat-in kitchen, decks for river views and two-car attached garages. Houses under construction across the street, ranging from 3,400 to 3,600 square feet, will have three or four bedrooms and up to three-and-a-half baths and sell for $329,000 to $400,000, said Denise Guiducci, a broker for Sibcy Cline Realtors.
Other housing projects -- Edgecliff Towers and Kingston House -- have been built on the hillside above the river, but they were high-rise towers targeted for upper-income residents and near East Walnut Hills, an established upscale neighborhood. Until Alumni Builders found its toehold along the river, no developer would risk investing and building in the East End.
In keeping with the Victorian nature of the neighborhood, houses in Riverfront Terrace have widow's walks, decks and large windows. Brick is mixed with faux sandstone and limestone detailing on the exterior and the houses have high-tech intercoms, central vacuuming systems and rooms prewired for computers. Wet bars and amenities like hot tubs abound.
Jerry Warner, 56, a semi-retired entrepreneur and Wall Street investor, was among the first to move into Riverfront East in 1995. Besides the view, he said, he moved to the neighborhood because of its tranquillity and proximity to restaurants and nightlife. While he keeps an 8,500-square-foot home in the Indiana hills near Batesville, about an hour's drive away, Mr. Warner said he finds that he is spending most of his time in the East End.
"You're in the city but it's as quiet as if you're out in the woods," he said. "There are 21 units here but you'd never know it."
MR. WARNER'S town house, typical of others in Riverfront East, has crown molding throughout and there is a fireplace upstairs in the master suite, as well as a a Jacuzzi in the bathroom. Below the ground floor are a family room and a two-car garage. Between his unit and the river is a garden of shrubbery and accent stones that winds the length of the complex. Two gazebos and flower beds are focal points. Mr. Warner said his residence was large enough to accommodate family gatherings, which is one reason why he bought the condominium -- to be closer to his grandchildren.
Mr. Brady, the mortgage broker, said that before the new neighborhood can work, there must be a critical mass of affluent residents. Then the restaurants, groceries and dry cleaners will follow, he said. "I don't want to live on the riverfront and have a beautiful place and have to drive across town to get groceries," he said.
The neighborhood has deep Appalachian roots and a working-class feel remains. A local tavern is called the Du Drop Inn. One nearby property owner is a bell manufacturer.
Mr. Udris, the city's economic development director, projected that as many as 1,200 units could one day stretch from Riverfront Terrace about two miles west to Adams Landing, an upscale condominium complex a block or so off the river.
Mr. Imboden can watch the construction of Riverfront Terrace from a window in an upstairs workout room in his Riverfront East condominium and sometimes he will quit exercising to do just that. "This has been a ride, but it has not just been about money," he said the other day as masons laid brick, surveyors took readings and hammering resounded. "It's been a passion."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David C. Imboden at Riverfront Terrace overlooking the Ohio River, which is now under construction. His 21 town-house Riverfront East complex is at right. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)
 
Map of Cincinnati, highlighting Riverfront Terrace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI (OHIO); OHIO RIVER; UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EVICTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); TAX LAW (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); 

PERSON: ECKBERG, JOHN; IMBODEN, DAVID C DAVID C IMBODEN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



528 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Susan Arterian Chang;
Paper Finding Pulse In Community Beat

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
SUSAN ARTERIAN CHANG, who is the founder, publisher and editor of The White Plains Watch, the newest newspaper in White Plains, said she "won't be a Pollyanna" but she does want to bring the city together, applaud its diversity and help mom-and-pop stores survive.
Ms. Chang formerly worked in book and financial publishing and was a freelance writer in Manhattan and Los Angeles before moving to White Plains in 1992. She started the monthly in November 1997 by pooling the money of herself and her husband, Eugene. Time will tell, she said, whether her vision of community is shared by enough other people to insure the paper's survival. 
 On May 8 from 2 to 9 P.M., the newspaper, the White Plains Downtown Business Improvement District and merchants and businesses will sponsor events aimed at getting residents to rediscover the downtown area. The newspaper, which prints 25,000 copies, is distributed free to residents and available elsewhere at other places in the city. Here are excerpts of a recent conversation with Ms. Chang:
Q. Was it always your dream to start a paper?
A. No. It really wasn't. One day I was talking to a friend, and we were saying that there was no community paper in the city. We had had one -- Suburban Street -- but when I moved here in 1992 it was publishing very sporadically. And after 1995 I never saw it again. So at the time I was getting tired of freelance financial writing. I was writing about risk management and very esoteric subjects. I wanted to write about something more concrete and something that had meaning to me. By then, I had started to get involved in the school system, but I still felt very removed from the city. Downtown White Plains was a place I never went to. I felt almost like an outsider, an interloper.
This all came together in my mind: the idea that I wanted to help create a stronger community here, I wanted to be involved in downtown revitalization. I had always been kind of interested in cities. I had lived in Manhattan for most of my life. I loved living where all kinds of people were together. I loved the energy of the city, and I felt that White Plains could be that kind of city on a smaller scale.
Q. Do you have any background in newspaper financing?
A. Not at all. I had no background. Believe me, I made -- have been making -- lots of expensive mistakes. The main one was I started out with a 40-page paper and only about 20 percent of the paper was advertising. I was just bleeding.
Q. What is the goal? Is it 50 percent?
A. Or more. Some papers are as much as 70 percent. If you can get to be a bigger paper you can afford to have a bigger ratio of ads because you have a bigger space for editorial. I'm aiming for 50 to 60 percent.
Q. When did you say, I'm going to do this?
A. It was in the spring of 1997 that I started to get up every morning and say, yes, this is what I want to do. I went through a few weeks or a month of feeling like that. Then I began talking to people in the community about it. And I got such a wonderful response from community people. That really propelled me -- that they wanted a paper here so badly and they felt a need for it. There is a small group of very, very active people in this town and they really make the wheels turn, and they got right behind it. And then I started networking and calling community papers through a directory the suburban newspaper association has. Community newspaper people are really nice. They want to help other people out. I visited some, and they all gave me lots of ideas.
I should say I also got a lot of help from Dee DelBello, publisher of The Business Journal. In fact her production people created my design and produced the paper for the first few months and got me off the ground. I also have to mention Diane Fox, without whom I could never have done this paper. She is the advertising director and associate publisher. She was a parent I knew from Ridgeway Elementary School.
Q. What kind of finances did it take to start the newspaper?
A. My husband and I have financed this paper on our own. My husband was at the time a currency trader and we had saved some money and -- well, he knew I was searching for something -- he got behind it and said let's go ahead and do this. We've invested a lot of money, and we're at a point where we're getting close to breaking even on it. But it was all our funds. We did not borrow any money from anybody.
Q. Have you had anything controversial to write about at this point?
A. Because White Plains is a community that needs to heal, I'm trying not to strike a negative tone. But I do try to be critical on some levels. For instance, I'm concerned about maintaining the qualities of the school system for the middle-class community here because I think it's very important for the integrity of the school system that the middle class wants to stay here and believes in it. So I try to have a dialogue between parents and the school system through the newspaper. We've run a series of articles about heterogeneous grouping in the school system and that's caused a little bit of controversy, but I think it's been very healthy.
Another major issue was the proposal for the video arcade for the Galleria mall. I came out against that editorially and it probably hurt me because the Galleria won't advertise with me. But I felt very strongly about it. The black community that lived close to downtown all spoke against this video arcade, but the Common Council voted for it. I just couldn't understand it. We did an editorial saying that we were against it and against the violence of the games.
After they had approved the arcade, the Council said it wanted to say the arcade couldn't have violent games. But it turned out that constitutionally you can't legislate content. As it turned out, the guy who wanted to do the arcade went away, but that doesn't mean someone else won't come in and try to do the same thing. I think the Council kind of opened up a can of worms.
Another thing we've advocated for is open-space preservation on the New York Hospital property. We have come out strongly in favor of that and think the Common Council and the city should be doing a lot more to see that this happens.
Q. So you are not going to let advertising issues interfere with what you think is the right thing to do?
A. It's hard to say. A lot of people say: you should write about your advertisers and things like that. And when it comes to mom-and-pop stores here, I feel part of my mission here is to make them survive. We're living in the shadow of two huge malls and our downtown needs help. The small guys need help and recognition through the newspaper, and I think it's important for us to recognize their struggles and to recognize that they are really trying to make a positive contribution. So I do think writing about them is O.K., whether they advertise or not. And we do write about those who don't advertise. But we have done things -- thumbs-up, thumbs-down kinds of things -- and we've done thumbs down on the fact that a lot of the windows of stores are covered with newspaper and garbage and advertising, and we have an ordinance in the city that says only 25 percent of your display window can be covered. And we've shown pictures of the ones that are offending.
Q. What is the May 8 program all about?
A. It came from a conversation with Mary D'Amico, who is owner of Articoli, a craft and gift store where I share space on Mamaroneck Avenue. She often does events at her store. What we were feeling is it would be nice to have a day where all the stores were doing something. So we approached the Downtown Business Improvement District, and they are a major sponsor of the event. We call it Downtown Rediscovery Day because a lot of people haven't been downtown for many years since the malls came in and the stores started closing. But there is a season of rebirth here, and I want people to see that and to be part of it and be activists in the community.
It's the responsibility of everyone to make it come back to life. It's part of our mission at the newspaper to try to bring the community together, and revitalizing the downtown is part of that so people have a common place to come. That's when community really starts to happen.
I'm hoping there are enough people who really feel that way. Sometimes I have my doubts. Sometimes I wonder; everyone is so involved in their nuclear families, does community still matter to people? The jury is out. Can we do it. I'm not sure. I get enough positive feedback to think it can happen, but there are a lot of obstacles and challenges in the way.
Q. What is the biggest challenge?
A. Keeping the paper going by convincing local businesses to become advertisers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Arterian Chang, publisher and editor of The White Plains Watch, a monthly newspaper distributed free, which she founded in 1997. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE PLAINS WATCH (NEWSPAPER)

ORGANIZATION: WHITE PLAINS WATCH (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS PUBLISHING (90%); CITIES (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); SUBURBS (68%); 

PERSON: CHANG, SUSAN ARTERIAN; GREENE, DONNA SUSAN ARTERIAN CHANG (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



529 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
Another Tool to Save Meadowlands Open Space

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
OF the nearly 20,000 acres that made up the Hackensack Meadowlands, 8,400 of them remain a sweep of meadows and marshes blanketed with brown reeds, some rising 12 feet tall.
Surrounded by commercial and residential development and dotted with closed landfills and contaminated waterways, the undeveloped land, most of it fresh-water and salt-water wetlands, is far from pristine. 
 But last month the State Legislature passed a bill to establish the Meadowlands Conservation Trust to preserve pieces of the remaining meadows considered by some to be a rare urban wilderness. The move reflects a growing sentiment in the state to conserve open space.
The move to create a nonprofit trust, which is expected to be operational by year's end, started two years ago and brought together environmentalists, state legislators and officials of the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission. The commission, an autonomous state agency, has authority over zoning and planning issues in the 32-square mile Meadowlands region, which covers parts of 14 municipalities in Bergen and Hudson Counties.
The region, nine miles from Manhattan, has long been a magnet for development, including a proposal by the Mills Corporation of Arlington, Va., to build a $1-billion, 2.1-million-square-foot mall, with accompanying office towers and a 1,000-room hotel, on part of a 592-acre tract in Carlstadt.
Passage of the Meadowlands Conservation Trust Act on March 2 followed a referendum last November that gave the state a green light to spend $1 billion over the next decade to preserve a million acres of undeveloped land.
It also comes at a time when Federal, state and commission officials are near agreement on a plan that would decrease to 465 acres the amount of the area's 7,700 acres of wetlands that could be filled and developed. Adoption of the plan, known as the Hackensack Meadowlands Special Area Management Plan, is expected in mid-September, involved officials say. That plan could affect the Mills project.
"We have been committed to preserving open space and wetlands, but as a state entity we have been restricted in our ability to do this," said Jane M. Kenny, Commissioner of the state's Department of Community Affairs, as well as chairwoman of the Meadowlands Development Commission, one of her department's agencies. The trust "will give us an additional tool and increased resources to continue to move forward," with or without the special area management plan, she said.
Alan J. Steinberg, executive director of the commission, said that the plan was just a zoning guide to direct growth to a limited amount of the wetlands. On the other hand, he added, the trust will buy land for recreational uses and wildlife habitats, giving the region "an extra layer of protection."
The trust will be financed by fund-raising and selling special Meadowlands license plates through the state's Department of Motor Vehicles. It will also seek funds from private foundations and the state, create public-private partnerships and accept land donations.
At present, the commission is negotiating for the purchase of 1,000 acres of open space, mostly in the central and southern areas of the Meadowlands. They would be added to the 900 acres the commission has preserved, including 186 acres of wetlands in Secaucus, known as the Mill Creek site, once targeted for 2,000 residences.
The Meadowlands was where native Indians once fished and hunted and Dutch and British colonists in the 18th century farmed salt hay and chopped cedar trees. In this century factories sprouted, as did piles of trash. By the late 60's the Meadowlands became a huge dumping ground.
IN 1969 the state established the Meadowlands Development commission to guide the area's growth, protect the environment and provide space for solid-waste disposal. Development in the 70's and 80's created today's landscape, which includes the state's 760-acre sports complex along with a collection of office and warehouse buildings totaling millions of square feet of space, as well as housing. "The only way to really preserve open space is to buy it," said Mr. Steinberg. "With the trust we are not limited to the proceeds of the state's conservation program to achieve that."
Gregory A. Remaud, conservationist project manager at the New York-New Jersey Baykeeper, an environmental group, said the trust was needed because "it could be more flexible and work more quickly" than a government agency. It could also "bypass politics," said Mr. Remaud, whose group is one of the most vocal opponents of development in the Meadowlands.
While the two groups agree on the merits of the trust, they disagree on the merits of the plan. The plan would end a decade-long debate among government regulators and environmentalists over how much development should be allowed on the region's remaining wetlands.
The current plan decreases the amount of developable wetlands to 465 acres, down from 842 earlier envisioned and from the 2,000 originally sought. It would also streamline approvals, require developers to clean some of the polluted sections of the Meadowlands and compensate private landowners not allowed to develop.
The plan is a combined effort of state and Federal agencies, including the Meadowlands commission, the state's Department of Environmental Protection, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency. They were assisted by the White House Council on Environmental Quality.
Mr. Steinberg said the plan "is the ultimate balancing" of economic development and environmental protection. "It places 95 percent of the remaining wetlands off limits to development and allows to be filled only the most severely damaged" wetlands, which have no ecological value, he said.
At the same time, he added, the commission is encouraging development in upland areas and redevelopment on the sites of closed landfills or sewage-treatment plants, which would not negatively affect the environment or further diminish open space. He said the commission was working on 10 redevelopment plans.
One is to recycle a 35-acre parcel, much of it once home to a sewage-treatment plant, into a mixed-use complex. Lincoln Equities Group, a local development concern, recently was named the redeveloper for 28 acres of the site, near Route 17 in Rutherford. The company, said Joel Bergstein, its executive vice president, will clean the site of contaminants and redevelop in phases up to 900,000 square feet of office space and a hotel.
"Our position is that the state has the right to control development," Mr. Steinberg said. "But to ban all development of the remaining wetlands would increase the risks of litigation from private landowners in 'takings' cases." (The Federal Constitution says private land may not be taken for public use without fair compensation.) The current plan will withstand such challenges, Mr. Steinberg said.
"It is not just a development plan," said Richard T. Fritzky, president of the Meadowlands Region Chamber of Commerce. The plan, he said, "has always been about preservation and reclamation and of doing the best we can for this region."
Environmentalists disagree. "We look at it as needlessly filling of nearly 500 acres of wetlands, which is the largest amount of wetlands that would be allowed to be filled since the passage of the Clean Water Act," said Mr. Remaud of New York-New Jersey Baykeeper. The concept of sacrificing some wetlands to save others is flawed, he said.
At the heart of the debate is the Mills Corporation project. Last month the company suspended its application to build its mall by filling 206 acres of polluted wetlands on the Carlstadt site. Instead, Mills has agreed to submit a new application to the Meadowlands Commission for the project on up to 90 acres of filled wetlands allowed under the plan, if the plan is approved.
If the plan is not adopted by September, said the company in a written statement, it will pursue its larger proposal. Either project still must secure approvals.
"We are adamant about preserving wetlands," Mr. Remaud said, "Another mall in the Meadowlands is unneccessary." Whatever happens this September "the process is far from over," he said, noting that his group was pursuing an alternative -- purchasing the 465 acres of wetlands the plan allows to be filled and turn that parcel into a wildlife refuge.
He said the Meadowlands Conservation Trust, while not designed to save all of the remaining developable wetlands, could help.
Mr. Steinberg said the commission remained optimistic that the special management plan would be realized this time. Together with the trust, he said, it will "enable us to preserve more open space and restore and enhance more degraded wetlands" than otherwise could be saved.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane M. Kenny, chairwoman, and Alan J. Steinberg, executive director of Meadowlands Development Commission, in area they hope to save.
(Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Map of northeast New Jersey, highlighting the Hackensack Meadowlands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MILLS CORP (68%); HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: HACKENSACK MEADOWLANDS DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WETLANDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ZONING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); WILDERNESS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (71%); REFERENDUMS (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%); LANDFILLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



530 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2967 words

HEADLINE: Building Homes for the Single Homeless

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY, which has seen its stock of last-resort housing for poor single adults withered by waves of market-rate development since the end of World War II, is seeing the return of apartments built specifically for those still hunkered below the bottom rung of the real-estate ladder.
Housing designed to fill that niche -- buildings parceled into small, clean "efficiency units" that are the functional successor to the old, squalid S.R.O. apartments -- are being constructed in some numbers for the first time in five decades. 
 Not big numbers.
Only a few hundred of New York's homeless thousands are or soon will be benefiting from the development. Still, just the fact that ground has been broken within the last two years for 13 efficiency-apartment buildings containing 668 units in all the boroughs except Staten Island -- nine have been completed so far -- represents at least a symbolic shift in a city that has seen, by some estimates, 87 percent of its S.R.O., or single-room-occupancy, stock eliminated since 1950.
The construction is a new phase in the evolution of the 20-year-old supportive housing movement, in which not-for-profit groups join forces with government agencies to finance and operate housing projects that go beyond merely providing a residence. The new projects not only take people off the streets and out of shelters, but offer them the on-site services they need to lead independent and, where possible, productive lives -- medical care, drug counseling, psychiatric help, job training and placement.
The movement attempts to fill the gap gouged by government policies that, for decades, discouraged S.R.O. housing as a cruel and degrading vestige of the past, but mainly by market-rate development that gobbled up S.R.O. hotels and tenement buildings -- first as neighborhoods gentrified during the 70's and 80's and, more recently, as owners renovated buildings to tap potential profit from throngs of tourists to the city.
"It's not like a real estate developer is saying, 'Let me build all this low-income housing,' " said Maureen Friar, executive director of the Supportive Housing Network of New York, a coalition of 115 not-for-profit organizations, "but what we do -- creating and operating supportive housing -- has become the solution to homelessness. So it's a start."
The distinction between the old single-room-occupancy units and the new efficiency apartments is striking. Unlike the S.R.O.'s -- typically unsanitary, with shared bathroom and cooking facilities down the hall -- the efficiency apartment comes with a private bathroom and a kitchenette in a building equipped with lounge areas, classrooms, a laundry and even, in some cases, an exercise room. Rooted in the not-too-distant past, however, those involved in the supportive housing movement and even government officials sometimes slip into the vernacular and still refer to the new units as S.R.O.'s.
Call it what you will, Larry Gatson thinks he's living in a unit of heaven.
"Gatson residence!" is the way Mr. Gatson, 54, answers the phone in his home in the newly constructed, 40-unit efficiency-apartment building at 690 East 147th Street in the South Bronx, owned and operated by University Consultation and Treatment Center, a Supportive Housing Network member.
"Oh man, you don't know how it feels to have a place of my own, 'cause I've been from the shelter to the train to abandoned buildings," said Mr. Gatson, who moved in last May, shortly after the building opened. "I was homeless four years, 'cause, see, I used to be a crackhead."
Members of the network -- in cooperation, particularly, with the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, the Federal Government's Department of Housing and Urban Development and the mental health agencies of the city and state -- have created 11,800 efficiency apartments since 1980 by refurbishing dilapidated S.R.O. buildings.
Now they are building new ones.
"The transition to new construction from rehabilitation of existing buildings is the most significant thing about the current focus of the program," said Richard T. Roberts, the city's Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development. "It's a function of the city's success in reducing its housing portfolio -- meaning we don't have as many city-owned buildings to commit to these efforts -- and improvements in the real estate market that make it much less likely for a private owner to sell or donate a building for supportive housing."
But according to Ms. Friar, the director of the Supportive Housing Network, "This is only a start." And she cited the dimensions of the continuing need: "There are still 7,200 single adults in the shelter system, 1,200 persons with AIDS in rundown commercial S.R.O.s and at least 10,000 people on the street."
Of the 13 efficiency-apartment buildings begun in the last two years, seven, containing 341 units, were financed through the New York State Office of Mental Health -- two in the Bronx, two in Manhattan and three in Brooklyn. "They're up and running," Ms. Friar said.
The six other efficiency-apartment buildings were financed through the city's Housing Preservation and Development Department.
In the Bronx, besides the 40-unit building where Mr. Gatson so delightedly now resides, two projects are under construction -- a 45-unit building at 1316 Boston Road in the East Tremont section and a 43-unit building at 1616 Grand Avenue in Morris Heights.
IN Brooklyn, two other H.P.D.-financed projects -- a 68-unit building at 545 Warren Street in Park Slope and a 57-unit building at 2324 Pitkin Avenue in East New York -- are also under construction.
And two weeks ago, Edwin Jimenez stood in front of 223 East 117th Street in Harlem as concrete continued to be poured for a 73-unit building sponsored by the Doe Fund -- the homeless-aid group most visible for its royal blue uniformed street cleaning crews on the Upper East and West Sides.
Mr. Jimenez, 34, can hardly wait for construction to be completed in early 2000 so he can move into his 12- by 14-foot apartment with its large window, polished floor, kitchenette and -- "Can you believe it?" he said -- a private bathroom. He has been living with 10 other men in one wing of the Doe Fund's dormitory-style transitional shelter on Frederick Douglass Boulevard in Harlem since last October.
And that has been one of his more luxurious residences.
"I've been a runaway since I was 13 years old," Mr. Jimenez said. "My father was an alcoholic and always beat my mother; my mother would turn around and beat on me. So I ran to a friend's house on 42d Street and lived in the basement."
"For the need of money for my habit," he said, "I did what they do out there -- sell myself. I've been on drugs, alcohol since I was 9."
When he was 17, Mr. Jimenez met a woman he refers to as "my daughter's mother" -- his daughter, Domanisha, was born in 1986. For four years, he said, "I wasn't exactly clean," of drug use, "but I wasn't as bad as I was." But as his relationship "with my daughter's mother began to crumble," Mr. Jimenez said, he reverted to heavy drug use and wound up back on the street.
"Slept in trains, under bridges, tunnels, abandoned cars," he said, "sometimes in Dumpsters. Off and on for three years, no residence."
In 1994, Mr. Jimenez graduated from a drug rehabilitation program "and got a good job, construction," he said. "Two years, no drugs, no nothing.
"Then I made the cardinal mistake -- just this one time," he said of taking another tumble toward heavy drug use.
Eventually, after months in the city's shelter system, Mr. Jimenez was accepted into the Doe Fund's Ready, Willing and Able Program, which provides housing in exchange for work -- usually on the street-cleaning crew. Doe Fund clients earn $5.50 an hour to start, and pay $50 a week in rent to live in transitional residences, the organization's co-founder, George McDonald said. And they must participate, he said, in a program "that fosters good work and living habits -- getting up in the morning, going to work, filling out resumes, budgeting income -- and support services like frequent drug testing and counseling."
The clients must save $30 a week, which after about nine months equals $1,000 -- a sum matched by the Doe Fund as a down payment on finding their own apartments. But they are required to stay in the program until they have secured a private-sector job. "So the program mirrors, in the everyday repetition of working, getting paid and not spending on drugs, the desired societal outcome," Mr. McDonald said.
Mr. Jimenez said he had gone "from the housekeeping crew to the Community Improvement Division" -- the street cleaners -- "to assistant to the employment developer; I work in a shirt and tie every day." By early next year, he expects to find outside work and to move into the new building, where he will pay $75 a week in rent. "I can hardly wait," he said.
The Doe Fund project, said Commissioner Roberts, "is particularly exciting because it places emphasis on housing the working poor," rather than the elderly or disabled. "The more stability you provide people, the greater opportunity for them to lead self-sufficient lives," he said.
Mr. McDonald hopes the building "will serve as a model for communities as the type of first-rung housing for the working poor they would like to have in their neighborhoods."
Development costs for the Doe Fund building total $8,261,831, financed through two sources: H.P.D. serves as the conduit for a 30-year loan of $6,176,565, at 1 percent interest, from H.U.D.'s Home Investment Partnership Program -- commonly called the HOME Program. The remaining $2,085,266 has been raised from the sale of Federal tax credits to investors who put up the money and then, over 10 years, receive the credit on their tax returns while the Doe Fund immediately receives the equity. The construction cost for each unit is $69,000.
Rents paid by the 73 Doe Fund building residents will be $75 a week each, for a yearly grand total of $284,700. Added to that are subsidies of $150 a month per unit from the city's Department of Homeless Services -- for housing people out of the shelter system -- totaling $131,400 a year. So, taken together, the total annual rental income for the building will be $416,000. "Sufficient to cover the operating expenses," Mr. McDonald said.
Other governmental agencies also contribute to the supportive housing movement, said Timothy O'Hanlon, director of H.P.D.'s Supportive Housing Program. The city's Department of Mental Health, under the New York/New York Agreement -- a program created by the city and state to develop housing for the mentally disabled -- has renovated about 1,400 of the 11,800 efficiency units finished so far.
THE city's Human Resources Administration provides operating assistance for the support of people with AIDS who are referred to the efficiency apartments. And under what are called the Federal McKinney Programs, H.U.D. also provides rental assistance and operating subsidies to organizations housing the formerly homeless.
For Mr. O'Hanlon, "What's unique about the Doe Fund project is that it's the first new construction of this type, aimed specifically for the working poor, in Manhattan."
There was a time, said Anthony J. Blackburn, a housing economist, when communal living arrangements, like the old S.R.O.'s, were a pillar of the city's housing structure.
"If you go back 150 years, most housing involved some form of shared living," said Dr. Blackburn, who, in 1986, wrote "Single Room Occupancy in New York City," a report commissioned by the City Council that offered recommendations for city S.R.O. policy, and then, in 1996, did a follow-up study analyzing S.R.O. data.
"There were tenements where people shared water taps and water closets," said the British-born Dr. Blackburn, "boarding houses, where residents received dining-room service; rooming houses, which were typically converted brownstones with one bath per floor and no cooking facilities." And there were lodging houses for the poorest people, where tenants rented a bed. "Basically, all these forms would, by today's definition, be called S.R.O.'s," Dr. Blackburn said.
During World War II, the city faced a severe housing shortage as laborers from across the country flocked to jobs in war-related factories dotting the boroughs. The shortage was greatly exacerbated when soldiers returned from the war and a wave of migration from Puerto Rico began. Many building owners responded by subdividing apartments into S.R.O.'s.
"The great paradox is this," said Dr. Blackburn, "that starting in the 1940's, good-government types decided that this was a deplorable form of housing." Yet the newly created S.R.O.'s were exempt from rent regulation, which had been enacted during the war because of the housing shortage. "So that was a further incentive to convert," Dr. Blackburn said. "Think about the building owner with 20 apartments; he can convert to 40 S.R.O.'s and avoid rent regulation."
By the 1950's, government officials were increasingly concerned about overcrowding, and about families living in single rooms. In 1960, the city prohibited children under 16 from living in S.R.O.'s. The people who remained were the most desolate and vulnerable. As an article, "Single Room Occupancy, Community of the Alone," written by Joan Shapiro, a sociologist, for the journal Social Work, said in 1965, "Many cluster in single-room-occupancy buildings where untreated illness, hunger, loneliness and sporadic violence are an unrelieved concomitance of existence."
In 1967, a new housing code mandated that all S.R.O.'s in tenements be reconverted to regular apartments within 10 years. But by the early 1970's, Dr. Blackburn said: "The mandated reconversions were taking place anyway. After this assault on S.R.O.s, they became occupied primarily by the poorest people, and the owners found it no longer in their economic interest to maintain them as S.R.O.'s.
"There were terribly deteriorated buildings on the Upper West Side," he said, "which could be incredibly valuable if they were rented to young professionals."
Some owners forced people to leave "by creating unimaginably dreadful conditions in the building," Dr. Blackburn said. "They turned the heat off, they let units to prostitutes, drug dealers." Some hired thugs to simply throw tenants out, and dazed old men and women with their bags of belongings found themselves on the mall down Broadway.
So the city did another about-face. In 1985, the City Council passed Local Law 59, imposing an 18-month moratorium on the conversion or demolition of S.R.O. buildings. In 1987, the moratorium was made permanent. But two years later it was overturned by the New York State Court of Appeals, a ruling that the United States Supreme Court later declined to review.
"Since then," Dr. Blackburn said, "the city has been trying to save some S.R.O.'s and to encourage the development of new ones. And the fact that the moratorium was illegal meant the only way the city could move to preserve S.R.O.'s was by arranging for their acquisition by nonprofit groups."
The question of how many of the old S.R.O. apartments remain is confusing. There once were at least 200,000 in the city. By 1986, however, according to Dr. Blackburn's city-commissioned study, there were only 64,000 units left -- not including about 3,500 beds in lodging houses where, to this day, up to a dozen people might be crammed into a small room and pay perhaps $100 a month each for a bunk bed. In his 1996 statistical update of the report, Dr. Blackburn estimated that there were fewer than 47,000 S.R.O. units left.
BUT that was the estimate for buildings legally classified under the building code as S.R.O.'s, he said. "The question is: What is the size of the illegal S.R.O. inventory? By definition, nobody knows."
"Supposing the city decided to enforce the housing code and issued vacate orders for all the illegal units," he said. "The homeless population would dwarf what it is now."
While appreciative of the city's shift to efficiency-apartment construction, Dr. Blackburn contends that, at least for the near future, it will merely dent the problem.
"The city is spitting in the wind," he said. "It wants to preserve S.R.O.s, but the economics are going in the other direction. So the only ones that come on line are the ones capitalized by the government."
Commissioner Roberts does not disagree. "I think it is certainly a fair conclusion that the need has, for some time, exceeded the ability of the market to provide units," he said. "Certainly that's true for all segments of the housing market.
"And that is why we are exploring as many alternatives as possible to increase support for this type of housing," he said, "including additional financial resources at the Federal and state levels. At the same time, we are trying to identify ways in which we can be more creative with the resources now available to support additional units."
Mr. Gatson, still reveling in his new, real home in the Bronx, certainly appreciates the program. "I cherish this place just like I cherish my life," he said. "I've got pictures all over the wall, carpeting on the floor."
Next to his clock stands Mr. Gatson's new baptismal certificate. Just days after moving in, he went to a revival meeting in a tent in Harlem and "got re-baptized," Mr. Gatson said. "It means I'm starting my life all over again."
Mr. Jiminez knows what he wants to do soon after moving into his apartment in the Doe Fund building: "Hang up a picture of my daughter -- she's a little lady now -- and have her come over to see where daddy lives, and then take her to Central Park."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise, 1840 Anthony Avenue before renovation into efficiency flats (Larry Racippo/Department of Housing Preservation and Development), after, with Gene Estess of Jericho Project, left, and Commissioner Richard T. Roberts of H.P.D. and restored building. (Photographs by Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 4); George McDonald, right, of Doe Fund, with Edwin Jimenez, once homeless, at 74-unit building going up on East 117th Street. (Jack Manning/The New York Times); Larry Gatson, once a homeless drug addict, in his ef-ficiency apartment in new 40-unit uilding at 690 East 147th Street in South Bronx. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS LARRY GATSON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



531 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW BERLIN;
Signs of Health

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Though I greatly enjoyed your articles about the transformations of Berlin April 11 , readers may have been left with the impression that the city is not well, that it's burdened by its history, its architecture and its petty political squabbles. And judging by the articles, Berlin is a city without people. 
 Yet Berlin is the most green city I know. Its borders encompass lakes, a forest, a large central park and many small parks. Berlin is a bicycle-friendly city, with biking lanes throughout, and bicyclists have open access to the mass-transit system for long-distance travel.
Berlin is a city of incredible cultural diversity. A year of living in the Wedding district offered ample proof that Berlin, if not Germany, is a multicultural society; this despite the protestations of the Christian Democrats and the frequently reported neo-Nazi activity.
And it's a city of openness. Gay and lesbian couples move freely and openly in public. Access to high culture is seen as a democratic right rather than a privilege reserved for the rich and the sophisticated. The elderly, students and the unemployed have access to museums, opera houses and symphonic halls that could put some North American counterparts to shame. There, a student does not have to stand through Wagner to enjoy Wagner.
As a home for retrospective movie theaters, Berlin places perhaps only third behind Paris and New York. It is a city of offbeat experimentation: Shakespeare im Hof and numerous independent art galleries. Berlin does not need to arrive; she has been with us all along in many different forms.
 
MARK WOLFGRAM
Hull, Quebec 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (70%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); CYCLING (70%); FILM (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



532 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Clark Munnell and Esra Ansay

 BODY:
Esra Ansay, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Engin A. Ansay of New York and Istanbul, Turkey, was married on Friday to Thomas Clark Munnell Jr., a son of Alicia H. Munnell of Boston and Mr. Munnell of Duxbury, Mass. The Rev. Dr. Thomas F. Pike performed the ceremony, combining Episcopal and Islamic traditions, at the Essex House in New York.
Mrs. Munnell, 26, was until February a vice president of St. Thomas Inc., a leather goods maker in New York. She graduated from Brown University and received an M.B.A. from New York University. 
Her father is a special adviser and a member of the Turkish Mission to the United Nations in New York. Until last year, he was the observer at the United Nations for the Organization of the Islamic Conference, a secular political organization representing Islamic states.
Mr. Munnell, 32, is known as Clark. He is a vice president in private client services at Goldman, Sachs & Company, the New York investment bank. He graduated magna cum laude from Middlebury College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and received an M.B.A. from Harvard University. He is also a founder of Patch the Apple, a fund-raising group in New York that supports neighborhood volunteer organizations.
His mother is the Peter F. Drucker Professor of Management Sciences at Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Mass. From 1995 to 1997, she was the Assistant Treasury Secretary for economic policy. His father is a founding partner of Downer & Company, an investment banking concern in Boston. The bridegroom is a stepson of Eizie Munnell and of Henry S. Healy.
The couple met in 1997 at a polo match in Darien, Conn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Marc Liberman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE ISLAMIC CONFERENCE (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE ISLAMIC CONFERENCE (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TURKEY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); RELIGION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); VOLUNTEERS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (56%); 

PERSON: ANSAY, ESRA (ESRA MUNNELL); MUNNELL, THOMAS CLARK JR. PETER FERDINAND 'PETER F' DRUCKER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



533 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTERS POINT;
Theater Curtain Company Will Stay in City for Encore

BYLINE: By RICHARD WEIR 

 BODY:
Housed in a nondescript two-story building between a crab house and a trophy maker is a small company that has played a large part in dressing the stages of dozens of Broadway theaters, as well as opera houses and concert halls across the country. It now looks as if the 100-year-old company will remain there.
From the Shubert Theater on West 44th Street to the National Theater in Washington, as well as dozens of the city's public schools, the handiwork of I. Weiss & Sons has been hoisted to open countless performances. Cut and stitched by hand, its stage curtains currently rise and fall on "The Lion King" and "Miss Saigon" on Broadway. 
 I. Weiss, at 2-07 Borden Avenue, employs 22 needleworkers and cutters who work on more than 1,000 projects a year, from main theater curtains to backdrops to side or "leg" curtains and curtains for audience boxes. Main curtains cost from $15,000 to $50,000.
The work is laborious. It took seven months to stitch the elaborate main curtain and nine scenery curtains used for "The Phantom of the Opera," the long-running musical that went on a national tour and spurred a boom in I. Weiss's business, said David Rosenberg, the company president.
"If you had to pick a show that singlehandedly was responsible for more theater renovations, it was 'Phantom,' " he said.
With business flourishing, Mr. Rosenberg considered moving to larger quarters in New Jersey. But in December he received tax incentives valued at $294,000 through a new city bond program aimed at helping small manufacturers stay in New York City. The incentives persuaded him to spend $950,000 to buy and renovate the 16,500-square-foot Borden Avenue building.
"I. Weiss has been here manufacturing theater drapery for 100 years, and we want to make sure they stay for another 100," said Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
The company was founded in 1900 by Isadore Weiss, an upholsterer who set up shop in the theater district and became sought after by Broadway prop men. By the 1940's, Mr. Weiss's sons, Mac and Henry, had broadened the business to include theatrical drapery and rigging. Mr. Rosenberg, a former theater production manager, bought a half-interest in the company from a Weiss grandson in 1985, four years after the move to Queens.
"The only thing I knew," he said of theatrical drapery, "was how to hang it."
But since then he has become involved in complex projects, like the custom-dyed blue velour curtain for "The Best Little Whorehouse Goes Public," a play with a notoriously short run. Sewn to the drapery were 75,000 sequins and 10,000 fiber-optic lights that created a Las Vegas skyline.
"The lights came on, the curtains opened and then the play closed," Mr. Rosenberg said.
 RICHARD WEIR
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curtains from I. Weiss & Sons rise and fall on Broadway at "The Lion King" and "Miss Saigon." (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "STAGECRAFT: Curtains by Category
Proscenium curtains, the main drapes used to cover a stage, come in three basic types.
 
The Austrian -- This "guillotine" curtain unfurls from the ceiling to the floor, usually in one or two sections.
 
The Tab -- This curtain unfolds diagonally, one section from the upper left corner of the stage and one from the upper right.
 
The Traveler -- This style "travels" across the stage from left to right or right to left. A two-section version, with the pieces meeting in the middle, is the most common type of theater curtain.
 
(Source: I. Weiss and Sons Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (54%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEISS, I, & SONS

ORGANIZATION: WEISS, I, & SONS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (54%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; CURTAINS; TAX CREDITS THEATER (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WINDOW TREATMENT STORES (90%); REUPHOLSTERY & FURNITURE REPAIR (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); 

PERSON: WEIR, RICHARD DAVID ROSENBERG (85%); ISADORE WEISS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



534 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: COPING;
Life and Death in the 90's

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
THE night before we set my mother free, I went to my first political fund-raiser as a paying guest. Two grown-up events within 24 hours.
In recent months, as my mother, 90, lay dying, I thought about health care more as a political than a purely personal issue, particularly for the elderly. I sometimes fantasized that one of the tubes running out of her body was the cash flow to what I have come to think of as the Geriatric-Industrial Complex, that growing Octopus Inc. of hospitals, nursing and funeral homes, drug companies, eldercare lawyers, end-of-life ethicists, retirement villa real estate agents, senior stock churners and golden age entertainers. I imagined my mother in the bull's-eye of an emotional and economic Target Gray. Where were the Gray Panthers? Which politicians were protecting her? 
 So when my friend Stephen F. Cohen, a professor of Russian studies at New York University, asked me to join him at a $1,000-a-plate dinner for Bill Bradley, I said I would consider it seriously if he told the Presidential candidate that I was interested in becoming the Surgeon-Private. Steve said he would consider it seriously.
I had attended political banquets as a member of the press; once I heard President Nixon tell football stories that made me feel sympathy for his dorkiness. But I had never paid to go to one, sometimes I was too cheap, sometimes afraid of compromising myself as a journalist.
I had met Bill Bradley when he broke in with the Knicks more than 30 years ago, and I wrote about the team for The New York Times. We became friends when we both left sports in the 70's. Over the years, I wished he was as warm and funny in public as he was in private. When his wife, Ernestine, joined me in the Cancer Club, she and I exchanged medical notes.
Before my mother's mind began slipping last summer from brain cancer, she had agreed with me that President Clinton's worst offense was dropping the ball on health care. As retired city teachers on pensions, my parents have been fairly well covered medically, but the pilferage and indignities of the system enraged them. They passed that on to me, and I decided to pass it on to the candidate.
My wife, Kathy, and I sent in $1,000 each and arrived at the Sheraton New York Hotel early enough on April 15 to chat with Bill at the cocktail hour. Before I could speak, he said that he knew all about my new one-hour health show on Cablevision's Metro Learning channel. He would like me to contribute to his paper on health care.
Uncoolly, I blurted, "I would hold your feet to the fire on universal care, catastrophic coverage, children and the elderly."
He chuckled in a cool, political way. "I'm glad you don't have strong opinions."
At dinner, I thanked Steve for briefing Bill about me, and said that when I was Surgeon-Sergeant I would lobby for him and his wife, Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor of The Nation, to be ambassadors to Russia.
We applauded when the old Knicks' captain, Willis Reed, told the audience how players used to call Bill Mr. President.
The next morning, my dad, my sister, Gale, and I signed papers so that Fanny F. Lipsyte could be released from life support. Afterward, I sat alone in her Arden Hills Hospital room and told her I was going to be the Surgeon-Major. She had always wanted me to be a doctor.
Mom was able to breathe on her own for a little more than three days.
She died around 8:30 P.M. last Monday. The only undertaker I trust, John Kritl, came up from Manhattan to handle the cremation.
I'm taking off the month of May. I'll hang out with Dad for some of it. He likes my Target Gray image and is collecting research on the topic. He thinks I should write a book. I think he should. He thinks I should be wary of Bill Bradley; his political skepticism has historical sweep. When Sidney Irving Lipsyte was born in 1904, the President was Teddy Roosevelt and the doctor made house calls in the Bronx in a buggy. Now Dad's grandchildren want him to get a computer and E-mail.
Dad, meanwhile, reads mine. An old pal, Ed Weinstein, E-mails that the street con man he calls Red is back in Manhattan. Red guilt-trips affluent white men of late middle age into "lending" him $30 for gas so he can visit his father in the hospital. Red makes his marks believe that his dad was the genial black garage attendant or office building janitor whom they remembered only at Christmas.
After Ed recounted the scam here several years ago, hundreds of men, somewhat proudly, wrote and called to join the club. Last week, Ed spotted Red at Park Avenue and 56th Street and welcomed him back.
"Oh," Red said coolly, "I already borrowed money from you?"
Life goes on.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Mark Matcho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GRAY PANTHERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAY PANTHERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATH AND DYING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); GERIATRICS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ETHICS (77%); DEATH & DYING (77%); AGING (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ELDER LAW (76%); CHILDREN (75%); CANCER (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); WRITERS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); BRAIN CANCER (62%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; BRADLEY, BILL BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



535 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: ON THE JOB;
Tarred and Feathered, With Humor

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
Thank goodness for humor. Sometimes when life on the job is at its most tense, when a situation is at its bleakest, a witty word and a good laugh come along to save the day. Readers offered so many cases in point that a second serving of their stories became obligatory.
Some 30 years ago, early in his public relations career, Sanford Teller of New York City worked as a junior account executive in the Manhattan office of a large out-of-town advertising and marketing company. 
 Eager to impress, he usually arrived before 8 A.M. and remained until well after 6 in the evening.
"One morning, after breakfast with a client, I got to the office at 9:30," he writes. "As I passed the desk, the receptionist wished me a good morning and informed that I had to sign 'the book.' "
Mr. Teller was told that the office supervisor had decreed that beginning immediately, all account executives had to sign in each morning, giving their time of arrival. There was also a heading called "reason for being late," and the receptionist said company business was the only acceptable excuse.
"I was appalled that my creativity and professionalism were being judged by the clock," Mr. Teller writes. "And if the company was so interested in the time I arrived, why didn't it care about my time of departure?
"I knew that an angry response would not go down well. Which is why, after some deliberation, I wrote that I was late because 'My parakeet developed a hernia, and I had trouble finding a pet shop that sold a tiny truss.' "
Less than 30 minutes later, Mr. Teller was summoned to the office of the boss, who told him to close the door and take a seat. Mr. Teller could see the book, with its offending entry, open on the desk.
The boss asked him to explain, and he did.
The boss listened carefully, thought for a moment, then broke into a smile. "I think you're right," he said.
The next morning, the book was gone.
Mr. Teller adds two postscripts:
1. "I've used humor in business whenever appropriate ever since."
2. "I must admit that I've never owned a parakeet."
"It was a job seeker's nightmare," writes Peg Mancuso of Hicksville, N.Y. Four high-ranking officials of a university were taking turns questioning her about how she would handle the role of alumni relations director for the institution.
"The university had lost track of many of the alumni and needed to regain contact," Mrs. Mancuso says. "I had some ideas and answered all the questions with the confidence that I could do the job for my alma mater."
But then one of the vice presidents asked, "So, do you think you could find all of the lost alumni?"
Mrs. Mancuso hesitated. The tension built.
"I felt that if I answered 'yes,' I would be showing overconfidence and a lack of knowledge about the challenges of the job," she recalled. "But to answer 'no' would be to admit to the possibility of failure."
Mrs. Mancuso repeated the question and, with a smile, gave her reply: "No, I don't think that I'll find all the alumni, at least not those in the Witness Protection Program."
She got the job.
When George A. Cohon, now senior chairman of both McDonald's Russia and McDonald's Restaurants of Canada, was negotiating in the early 1980's to introduce the fast-food chain to the Soviet Union, he often met with Vsevolod Shimansky, an official of the Russian Federation's Trade Ministry. Mr. Shimansky often wanted to continue their talks over dinner, especially at restaurants with live balalaika music.
One night during this period, on a trip to Australia, Mr. Cohon found himself in a restaurant where the owner went from table to table, playing a different stringed instrument -- a guitar -- in what seemed to be a very accomplished fashion. "But when he stopped strumming, the guitar kept playing; he had a tape deck inside the guitar," Mr. Cohon writes with David Macfarlane in "To Russia With Fries" (McClelland & Stewart). "As soon as I saw it, I thought: Shimansky.
"I got a tape deck. I got a balalaika. I carefully inserted the tape deck into the body of the balalaika.
The next time Mr. Cohon came to Russia, he wasted no time telling Mr. Shamansky that he had been studying the balalaika. Mr. Shimansky wasted no time telling Mr. Cohon that he wanted to hear him play.
Mr. Cohon stalled until the last night of his visit, when they went to Valdai, not only one of Mr. Shimansky's favorite restaurants but also a place that featured balalaika music.
Finally, over coffee, Mr. Cohon said, "Well, it is now time for me to play the balalaika."
The instrument had been planted in a corner. With his back to the table, Mr. Cohon switched on the tape, turned around and began strumming a classic balalaika tune, "Moscow Nights."
Mr. Shimansky was astonished. "He stood there in amazement, moved almost to tears," Mr. Cohon writes.
"How beautiful!" Mr. Shimansky exclaimed. How he wished he could play such a song.
"You can," Mr. Cohon said, still strumming.
Mr. Shimansky said: "No, I have not the gift of music. Not like you."
To which Mr. Cohon replied, "No, really, you can learn."
Mr. Cohon passed the instrument to Mr. Shimansky. "And, of course, when I handed it to him, it continued playing," he writes.
Mr. Shimansky almost fell over his chair. And then his laughter boomed through the restaurant.
"It's a gift," Mr. Cohon said. "For you."
Mr. Cohon writes, "Shimansky turned out to be a good ally for us to have."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ALUMNI (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); PETS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



536 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2865 words

HEADLINE: The Indexing Giant Nobody Knows

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
IN an era when being biggest in any endeavor brings hubris and hype, Barclays Global Investors stands out by being nearly invisible to the untutored eye.
But it is Barclays Global, not the much vaunted Vanguard Group, that is king of the stock-market indexers -- managing $407 billion in investors' money by mimicking the performance of major market indexes. And it is Barclays Global, not a white-shoe bank or insurance company, that is the world's biggest manager of funds for institutions, like corporate pension funds and nonprofit organizations. It even has designs on displacing the giant Fidelity Investments, with $765 billion in its care, as the world's biggest manager of money. 
 Barclays Global, a unit of the British bank Barclays P.L.C., started out as part of Wells Fargo, the San Francisco bank. The unit already has a remarkable perch, considering that it lacks a well-known American brand name to advertise, sits far from the biggest financial centers, was long hobbled by legal restrictions not affecting some competitors and is led by a chairman who joined the company as a temporary secretary because she couldn't land a job in journalism.
Yet even more than Vanguard, which has concentrated on individual investors and met their demands for an array of products, Barclays Global has ridden the indexing rage to dizzying heights, managing a total of $619 billion at the end of last year.
Part of the reason can be found at the nation's pension plans. Just like small investors across the country, leaders of those plans are often choosing the indexing route, having grown tired of watching most mutual funds and other money managers fail to match the performance of the overall market. After all, what can be more unpleasant, not to mention costly, than having to face disgruntled employees to explain their pension fund's underperformance?
Size, too, works to Barclays Global's advantage. Bigness can be an impediment for so-called active managers of money -- those who use a variety of strategies and criteria to pick and choose stocks -- but it helps an indexer. Barclays Global has so much money under its roof that it obtains staggering economies of scale, allowing it to charge annual fees that are in many cases less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the money being managed, half the level that wins Vanguard so much praise for its fund indexed to the Standard & Poor's 500. And every day, Barclays Global does $1 billion in trades among clients in house.
Moreover, Barclays Global pioneered indexing and remains at its forefront, with a couple of dozen Ph.D.'s prowling the investment frontiers behind doors marked "This is a secured floor." While it manages some $400 billion through plain-vanilla indexing -- in itself not always as easy as it sounds -- it also has huge sums assigned to its computer jockeys, quantitative investors who try to tease a bit more than market returns from more complex investment products.
Indexing, of course, is a rejection of what much of Wall Street holds dear -- especially its faith in stock-picking prowess.
"Most of what happens in this business is more justified by hope -- and perhaps a little greed -- than by experience," contended Patricia C. Dunn, 46, the chairman of Barclays Global, coolly sipping from an ever-handy bottle of spring water. "We get a lot of our energy from being outsiders and challengers of investing wisdom."
As indexing's biggest practitioner, Barclays Global hears all the criticisms leveled at a practice that is both popular and threatening to many plush livelihoods. One contention is that indexing is a fad that has looked attractive because the market has been enamored, at least until this month, of the big stocks that dominate the Standard & Poor's 500, the benchmark for 70 percent of indexed equity mutual funds and a good deal of institutional money.
"If sentiment shifts away from the big-cap stocks in the S.& P., indexing will take a powerful hit," said Jeremy Siegel, a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. "You leave yourself very vulnerable."
Index-fund management is also inherently a commodity business; it produced a relatively modest $83.2 million of profit last year for Barclays Global's parent, 2 percent more than in 1997. Slender margins put a premium on volume.
AS it aspires to become the world's No. 1 money manager, Barclays Global faces a big challenge: protecting its institutional turf against traditional rivals like State Street Global Advisors, Mellon Capital and Bankers Trust while it pushes into the retail market, especially 401(k) and other retirement savings vehicles.
Coy about its plans, Barclays Global says it will not buy a public mutual fund group. But it rules out little else. Tom Taggart, the company's recently hired spokesman, used the term "instividual" to refer to what is widely seen as a convergence of the institutional and individual investment businesses. "Look for B.G.I. leveraging its expertise in this area," he added.
Others speculate that the company might act as a subadviser to someone else's funds, a business into which it has already dipped a toe, or provide indexing skills in an alliance, say, with a major brokerage house.
What distinguishes Barclays Global from most other money managers is its commitment to indexing, a theory of investing built on the idea that the stock market is a highly efficient information-processing machine, one in which a giant web of participants quickly incorporates every scrap of information into prices. By the time word circulates of a predicted drop in the quarterly profits of Gillette, to cite a recent example, the price has already fallen.
In other words, the stock market is far different from the place portrayed in personal finance magazines, mutual fund advertisements and popular mythology, one in which smart or well-connected people profit by outwitting the less smart.
About $407 billion of the money entrusted to Barclays Global is invested in straightforward replicas of various market averages. But while this kind of investing is often derided as something that could be done by a monkey, Steven Schoenfeld, a senior Barclays Global official whose job title is index strategist -- not an oxymoron -- knows otherwise.
Among the numerous practical problems he faces are dealing with sudden inflows or outflows of clients' money and keeping from running prices up on himself when buying a small-capitalization stock.
And when should someone in his position buy a company like Safeway, which Standard & Poor's announced a few months ago as a new addition to its 500 index? Should he buy as soon as the announcement is made, or the morning of the day the company is initially counted? Or five minutes before the market closes? Or a day or two later? Or should he buy options instead?
It's a constant, high-stakes game of cat and mouse in which Barclays Global, as the world's biggest indexer, is everybody's Sylvester. "We have to make sure our strategy is not predictable -- or we're the suckers," Mr. Schoenfeld said. "There's plenty of hedge funds, mutual funds and brokers who would be all too happy to pick us off."
Indexing gets treacherous overseas when rivals know that Barclays Global is a near-certain buyer in a thin market with rudimentary benchmarks. "Once you go outside the United States, just tracking the index is a major investment challenge," Mr. Schoenfeld said. "Not just anyone could do it."
Russia, not surprisingly, is difficult, but so is a market like Switzerland, which is dominated by a handful of huge companies, mostly in finance and pharmaceuticals.
Barclays Global follows more than 50 foreign markets, so "when you get into all the splicing and dicing, we're probably tracking close to 1,000 different indexes," Mr. Schoenfeld said.
But for all its success as a replicator of benchmarks, Barclays Global also recognizes the human urge to try to do better than average. The company puts about one-third of its invested money in "tilts," funds that are basically index-matched but also "enhanced" with variations engineered to match a client's tolerance of risk.
For example, the product Barclays Global calls NeuAlpha -- in investing, alpha refers to the amount by which you beat a benchmark -- is a long-short tilt, one that, as its name implies, includes a mix of short and long positions that reflect negative as well as positive information the firm has uncovered.
The detective work behind it relies heavily on immense computing power, enough gigabytes to audit every American income-tax return in 15 minutes. "We're not looking at making big bets on 20 or 30 or 50 companies," said Blake R. Grossman, the company's chief global investment officer. "We're making small bets across hundreds," scooping up what he calls the "nickels and dimes" invisible to others.
Many investors, for example, track Wall Street's estimates of company earnings, especially trends in analysts' revisions. Barclays Global keeps tabs on individual analysts, combining their forecasting records with other data to find patterns in how stocks react to shifts by certain analysts on certain companies.
Like many others, Barclays Global also tracks the buying and selling by executives of their companies' stocks, but it evaluates this information in the context of other facts, like how a company's executives are managing its financial structure. For instance, is expansion being financed with borrowing or new shares?
Barclays Global, however, does not borrow money to invest and is sparing in its use of futures and derivatives. "We don't have many funds that are leveraged," said Andrea Zulberti, the head of the firm's risk-management operation.
Over all, Barclays Global's results have been sparkling, people in the industry say. But performance for some clients has been hampered in the last few years by the huge gulf between a relative handful of big-capitalization stocks driving the main indexes and the rest of the market.
"As that top group has done better and better," said John F. Casey, chairman of Barra RogersCasey, a consulting firm in Darien, Conn., the Barclays Global approach "is forcing them to underweight these and to put money into the stocks that are so much cheaper."
But Mr. Casey said the clients he has steered toward Barclays Global are a highly satisfied group. "What they like," he said, "is that the research function is so rigorous that it's like bringing out a new pharmaceutical product in testing these things." And he said Barclays Global makes investment results dependably transparent, giving clients enough information so that they can see the source of the returns.
RIVALS acknowledge Barclays Global's trailblazing in indexing and its aggressiveness in building its institutional business, with clients like the pension funds of Exxon. But they don't hold Barclays Global in awe.
"We're using very similar techniques," said Gus Sauter, who oversees Vanguard's index and active quantitative group. "Everyone, if they're not on the same page, then at least they're reading from the same book."
In fact, Mr. Sauter complained that so-called enhanced indexing products, like the tilts, are not actually index funds; instead, he said, they reflect active strategies, however closely controlled. "There's no such thing as half pregnant or half wet," he said.
Nicholas A. Lopardo, chairman of State Street Global Advisors, which manages $485 billion and is the No. 2 indexer, contended that his old-line firm interacts with clients more than Barclays Global does and noted that it had grown without acquisitions.
(In 1995, however, State Street did seek to buy Wells Fargo Nikko Investment Advisers, as Barclays Global Investors was then known. Negotiations failed over who would end up in charge.)
Barclays Global's money under management has roughly tripled over the last four years -- a result of a combination of mergers, growing interest in outside management of investments for companies, increased popularity of indexing and, of course, one of the greatest bull markets on record.
Some of the growth was at the expense of traditional active managers; other new money came from public entities that had previously been obliged by law to manage their funds themselves.
The chief architect of the firm's development was Fred Grauer, a Wells Fargo strategist who had left the bank after a short stint in 1979 and 1980 and was lured back in 1983, when the business was floundering. He masterminded the 1990 deal in which half of Wells Fargo's investment unit was sold to Nikko Securities, then managed the late-1995 sale of the resulting business to Barclays, the latter bringing $85 billion in managed money.
If the firm is under pressure from London to contribute more to its parent's so-so bottom line these days, nobody here will acknowledge it.
Mr. Grauer, citing an interest in "brand new challenges," resigned suddenly in July, leaving Ms. Dunn in charge; as co-chairman since early 1997, she was the natural successor.
Yet the size of Barclays Global and its reputation do not prevent it from worrying about its competitive position as it serves a highly demanding clientele in a low-margin business.
"One of the biggest challenges they face in this country is competition from the big trust banks that frequently bundle indexed products in with their custody services," said Paul Holt, president of Cambridge International Partners, an investment management consultant. Custody business includes record-keeping, accounting and serving as a transfer agent, and it opens the door to the lucrative practice of lending securities. Such lending, mainly to investors who wish to sell the securities now and repay them later after repurchasing them at a hoped-for lower price, accounts for some 15 percent of Barclays Global's revenues, which totaled about $460 million in 1998, and an even larger share of its profits.
Nobody thinks the Barclays Global retail strategy will be to jump into the mutual fund business or to market directly to individual investors. That, among other things, would violate its stated core belief that it should focus strictly on what it does best -- managing money.
What's more, suggested Avi Nachmany, head of research at Strategic Insight, a New York firm that researches funds, the cost would probably be prohibitive.
Barclays Global expects to unveil an expansion plan in coming months -- an expansion that it hopes will make it burst into public consciousness. "It's not soup yet," Ms. Dunn said of the plan.
But when it's ready, she added in an interview in her 33d-floor office overlooking San Francisco Bay, "we'll be shouting from the rooftops."
 
A Career Detour That Led To the Chairman's Office
 SINCE 1976, when she joined Barclays Global Investors, Patricia C. Dunn has taken a turn at nearly every job there -- the clearing and settling of trades, portfolio management and positions in sales, accounting, trading and administration -- none of which she was initially qualified to do.
Indeed, in the fall she told a women's leadership conference at the University of California's Haas School of Business that she couldn't even have gotten into business school. "My expectations were so low," she said in explaining her start at Barclays Global as a temporary secretary, "that I can honestly say I did not have a career ambition."
When Ms. Dunn graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, she was unable to find a job in journalism, her first choice. She also thought people who worked for long in corporate America "didn't have a life" and recalls thinking, "It's just not in my future to work for a bank."
Yet nobody was surprised last summer when the sudden resignation of Fred Grauer left her the undisputed boss. The two had shared the top job for 18 months.
She has clearly mastered the theory of Barclays Global's heavily quantitative work -- she calls herself a "huge believer" that investing should be considered science, not art. But it is management skill and an adaptive mind that have lifted her to her powerful job. Senior industry officials guess that she earns at least $1.5 million a year and perhaps as much as $5 million.
"Somebody needs to bring together the technical with the real," Ms. Dunn said. "Probably the thing that I did at the point of my career where I advanced the most involved helping clients figure out how to use our highly sophisticated investment services to their advantage."
About the most foolish thing some investors do today, she contends, is chase after the hottest fund managers. "Past performance explains nothing about the future," she said. "That search for predictive power -- you can't find it."
And how does it feel to be responsible for $619 billion? "I dream about it," Ms. Dunn responded. "Sleep deprivation is an occupational hazard."
But she allowed that she would probably worry just as much about one-thousandth of that sum, which would be a mere $619 million. "After a point," she said, fretting that she might sound flip, "it gets to be zeros, doesn't it?" ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia C. Dunn, who now runs Barclays Global, started there as a secretary when she couldn't find a job in journalism after college. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "Keepers of the Money"
Compared with better-known competitors like Fidelity and Merrill Lynch, Barclays Global Investors has stayed in the shadows. But working quietly from San Francisco and relying heavily on index funds, Barclays Global has become the world's No. 2 manager of money -- and under the leadership of
Patricia C. Dunn, above, it may be shooting for No. 1.
 
Fidelity
$765 Billion
 
Barclays Global Investors
$619 Billion
 
Merrill Lynch
$501 Billion
 
(Sources: Nelson Information; listed companies)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "The Invisible Giant"
Though unfamiliar to most individual and many professional investors, Barclays Global Investors is second only to Fidelity Investments on the list of the biggest money managers.
 
PERFORMANCE
Annual returns for Barclays Global Alpha Tilts, one of its index-mimicking products with specialized variations for differing levels of risk, compared with benchmarks since 1986.
 
ASSETS
Total assets under management for Barclays Global Investors, in billions.
 
RANKINGS
Among all money managers
Total assets under management as of Dec. 31, 1998 (billions)
 
Fidelity Investments -- $765
Barclays Global Investors -- 619
Merrill Lynch -- 501
State Street Global Advisors -- 492
Vanguard Group -- 463
 
Among the largest index fund managers
U.S. institutional tax-exempt assets as of Dec. 31, 1998 (billions)
 
Barclays Global Investors -- $407
State Street Global Advisors -- 207
Bankers Trust -- 156
T.I.A.A.-C.R.E.F. -- 96
Mellon Capita -- l61
Vanguard Group-- 60
 
(Sources: Barclays Global Investors; Nelson Information; Pensions & Investments; listed companies)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (91%); BARC (LSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS; BARCLAYS PLC BARCLAYS PLC (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (58%); FMR CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS; BARCLAYS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WORKPLACE MORALE (71%); 

PERSON: DUNN, PATRICIA C; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR WELLS FARGO & CO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



537 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WILLOWBROOK;
Housing for Elderly Is Issue

BYLINE: By JIM O'GRADY 

 BODY:
A fight has broken out between city officials and Staten Island conservationists over the Economic Development Corporation's request for proposals to build a housing complex for the elderly. The complex would be on 40 acres of vacant city land next to Sea View Hospital and Rehabilitation Center and Home on Brielle Avenue.
The borough's largest environmental group, Protectors of Pine Oak Woods, has called for a moratorium on development of the land, known as Northern Parcel, because it is next to the Greenbelt, a 2,500-acre ring of city-owned wooded parkland in the middle of Staten Island. 
 The group's president, Dick Buegler, said the land should not be developed because its large meadows support rare serpentine soil-based plant life and the Argos Skipper butterfly that feeds on them, and because a 1991 master plan for the Greenbelt, drawn up by a task force of city and local representatives, recommended adding the Northern Parcel to the Greenbelt to protect the area's environmental integrity.
Borough President Guy V. Molinari is among city officials who favor developing the 40 acres. He said the hilltop land had been "lying fallow for many years" when his office and the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation urged the Economic Development Corporation last year to sell it to a developer who would build housing for the elderly.
"It's an ideal location for senior housing," Mr. Molinari said. "The grounds are magnificent and safe and a stone's throw from Sea View Hospital." The hospital agency's senior vice president for communications, Jane Zimmerman, said residents supported the building of such housing near the hospital at a public meeting last October.
Mr. Buegler said his group did not object to housing for the elderly, nor to placing it near Sea View Hospital. "But why build in an undisturbed natural area?" he asked. Instead, he proposed that the development agency seek proposals for another 40-acre city-owned site, Farm Colony, across Brielle Avenue from Sea View Hospital, but not next to the Greenbelt.
But both Mr. Molinari and the agency's spokeswoman, Bernadette O'Leary, pointed out that Farm Colony contains several buildings that have been designated landmarks, which might make it less attractive to developers. Ms. O'Leary also said her agency would take into account environmental issues when reviewing developers' proposals.
A dozen developers toured the Northern Parcel site on Friday. Mr. Buegler noted that Northern Parcel is part of the Farm Colony-Sea View Historic District, making new construction there difficult. The spokeswoman for the Landmarks Preservations Commission, Terri Rosen Deutsch, said any proposal for development of Northern Parcel would require a certificate of appropriateness from the commission, which would hold a public hearing on the matter.
"I don't think we'd say that no development is preferred," she said. "We need to review the proposals."
 JIM O'GRADY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Willowbrook showing the site of Northern Parcel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SEA VIEW HOSPITAL AND REHABILITATION CENTER AND HOME FARM COLONY-SEA (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (59%); SEA VIEW HOSPITAL (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEA VIEW HOSPITAL AND REHABILITATION CENTER AND HOME SEA VIEW HOSPITAL (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAND USE POLICIES; AGED CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AGING (90%); CITIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (85%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: O'GRADY, JIM DICK BUEGLER (74%); GUY V MOLINARI (74%); BERNADETTE O'LEARY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



538 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2736 words

HEADLINE: Young-Life Crisis;
They Burned Out Early on the Fast Track. Now They're Choosing Different Paths.

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
EVEN as a boy, Steve Brotman had the spirit of an entrepreneur. At 13, he said, he bought personal computers for $1,500 each and resold them to less technologically savvy neighbors for $2,500. Four years ago, fresh out of law and business schools, Mr. Brotman, then 26, decided that the Internet would be a terrific place for people to post classified advertisements, and for him to make money. He rented a cramped 20-by-10-foot office a few blocks north of City Hall and started up Ad One Classified Network.
As Silicon Alley took off, so did the company. Mr. Brotman was featured in news articles, and newspapers flocked to Ad One to get their classified ads posted on the network. Being a 90's Internet pioneer, he said, "was like being in a 60's rock band." But the rock star glamour faded quickly. During 16-hour days at the office, Mr. Brotman ran a promising but still unprofitable company, juggling 10 credit cards to cover the cost of everything from Ad One's toilet paper to its payroll. Before long, he was $150,000 in debt. 
 The company's computers constantly overheated, forcing the air-conditioning into high gear, which short-circuited the electricity and caused the Web site to crash. Mr. Brotman, dehydrated in his sweltering office, developed kidney stones.
At an age when most business people are starting to climb the ladder, he was burned out. In 1996, he began what turned into a yearlong search for a chief executive. Days after hiring his executive, Mr. Brotman became engaged. Three months later, he ended his management role with Ad One.
"It was like waking up for the first time," he said. "I didn't care anymore. Well, I cared. I cared. But it wasn't the only thing in my life. Once I realized the business wasn't the only thing in my life, I was less intense. I figured out what is really important to me."
Mr. Brotman in essence had a midlife crisis two decades before entering midlife. He is not alone. Sociologists say that many professional men and women in their mid-20's to mid-30's are re-examining career-driven lives, reassessing priorities and quitting their jobs to travel, study or just to find themselves.
This generation is often stereotyped as apathetic, its members more interested in a good time than a good job. But according to a 1997 survey by the Families and Work Institute in Manhattan, 73 percent of college-educated 25- to 32-year-olds worked more than 40 hours a week compared with 55 percent in 1977.
"Their aspirations are focused on economic self-sufficiency less than personal fulfillment," said a professor of sociology at New York University, Kathleen Gerson. "But when one finds that is not enough, that leads to a reassessment."
Professor Gerson and other experts said the pressure to pick a lucrative career early on might be explained in part by young professionals having been reared during the economically uncertain 1970's. In interviews, several 20- and 30-somethings said those early fears had been sharpened when they graduated from college during a recession in the early 1990's.
They also pointed out that their work ethic had allowed them to pay off student loans and save money, which makes an earlier-than-midlife crisis more affordable. It also helps that young workers often delay marriage and that few families these days depend on a single breadwinner.
An N.Y.U. law professor, Stephen Gillers, says he has watched young lawyers burn out for more than two decades, many from the scut work demanded in pre-partnership days. "The problem is that people aren't told up front what the job is like," he said. "But they wouldn't believe it up front, so disappointment is built into the career track."
In New York, a city that worships success, every job change can seem like a crisis. Some young professionals insist that only by leaving can they catch their breath and find some perspective. But for others New York is the place to come for a radical life change.
 
Goodbye to Big Bucks, Hello to Satisfaction
In July 1997, Dan Kwon left his $160,000 a year job as a Wall Street investment banker and moved to San Francisco, where he took another job in finance and enrolled in a screenwriting course. He said he found himself thinking constantly about his script ideas, impulsively jotting down bits of overheard dialogue. Last July, at 26, he quit his day job and started writing screenplays and sitcoms full time.
"If I stayed in New York, I wouldn't be in this situation," he said. "In New York, you don't take the time to stop and think. It is this machine which drives you forward.
"I don't know how many banker friends I have who said, 'I am so proud of you' while in the back of their minds they are thinking, 'I am so glad it's not me,' " Mr. Kwon went on. "It's cognitive dissonance, complete disattachment. They hate what they are doing, but they can't leave."
Lee Whitley remembers feeling consumed by a job he almost didn't get. In March 1990, three weeks after Merrill Lynch offered him a position in investment banking at its Battery Park City headquarters, he received a letter by Federal Express. To Mr. Whitley's horror, it said the recession was forcing Merrill Lynch to scale back hiring. Only the first 30 people who accepted the company's offer would have a job. Mr. Whitley grabbed his phone, and the job, and didn't let go for nine years.
He comes from a lower-middle-class family in Aberdeen, Miss., and, he said, looked to Wall Street for the money. Within two years of joining Merrill Lynch, he had paid off his student loans from Yale. But he regularly worked for three days without sleeping, returning to his apartment only to shower and change clothes, while a company car and driver waited outside to shuttle him back to work. Those 110-hour weeks kept Mr. Whitley from family gatherings, and he lost touch with friends.
"There are a lot of things I could have done that I didn't do because I was married to my job," he said.
Last August, while sitting on a Caribbean beach, contemplating his approaching 30th birthday and those missed events, he decided to quit Merrill Lynch. He waited, though, until February, after he he collected a substantial end-of-the-year bonus that pushed his net worth past $1 million.
"In my 20's, I didn't care about working a lot. I wanted to have a job that I would make a lot of money at," he said. "Going forward, the money is not that important. I have reached a financial goal. Now control over my life style will be more important."
Mr. Whitley says he is toying with the idea of teaching, although he concedes that his appetite for the business world has not completely disappeared. For now he is visiting friends and family in Mississippi. He plans to go to Spain in July, then spend at least two months touring Europe.
The Adventure Cycling Association, a nonprofit organization in Montana that has been leading bicycle expeditions since 1976, said that today far fewer college-age students and far more 25- to 35-year-olds are leaving work behind and taking three months off to bike across the United States.
"People are going right to work but then finding after 5 or 10 years that they are longing to discover themselves or challenge themselves in a nonacademic, nonprofessional way," said Kevin Condit, 35, who during his own young-life crisis six years ago quit as a creative director at an advertising agency in Philadelphia to become the cycling association's marketing director.
This spring, guided by Adventure Cycling maps, Lucy von Brachel, 25, plans to take her own cross-country ride. The trip represents a profound shift in sensibility for Ms. von Brachel, who lives in Greenwich Village and graduated from the Parsons School of Design in 1995. That spring, she turned down her mother's offer to pay for her to travel. "I felt I didn't want to owe anyone any money," she said. "I was driven to be settled, to be financially independent."
So the day after graduation, Ms. von Brachel, still a bit drunk from celebrating, showed up at the Howard Greenberg Gallery in SoHo, where she had accepted a job framing and packing pictures for shipment. She was promoted to overseeing inventory and then to a co-manager of the gallery's backroom operations. In May 1997, she left to join Art Systems, a computer company that produces software to manage gallery inventories.
But last November, Ms. von Brachel said, she found herself at a crossroads, still ambitious to work in the art world but trying to figure out what she wanted from her life, not just her career. "I am at this screwed-up transition," she said. "To feel like you have to have a career planned at 23, and then be working really hard so you will be a success at 25, that is a lot of pressure. I'm looking for something I never got before, time. I've never allowed myself to go on vacation. It was work, work, work."
She is planning to push off on her bike trip on May 19, riding with her boyfriend's sister, Katherine Pushkar, who last December gave up an editing job at The Village Voice to lead, at least temporarily, a Seinfeld-like existence.
 
A Psychologist Pursues A Rabbinical Career
Some young professionals find that worldly aspirations like a six-figure salary or a vacation home become less important over time, replaced by more spiritual concerns. Laura Gold's young-life crisis, which began five years ago, took her from a psychology practice in Ann Arbor, Mich., to the classrooms of the Jewish Theological Seminary on Morningside Heights. Dr. Gold was 34 in the fall of 1994 when, at Rosh ha-Shanah services, she found herself filled with regret that, unwilling to deviate from a career track followed since high school, she had passed up opportunities to study in Israel. As the service continued, she said, the same thought -- and counterthought -- kept recurring: "I should go to Israel. I can't do that now. How ridiculous."
She turned to her brother and announced that she was going to Israel. In June 1995, Dr. Gold took money she had saved to buy a house and a year's leave from her practice, and went to Jerusalem to study. She returned a year later to her old job and home, but her turmoil remained.
"I still loved my work, but that wasn't enough to satisfy my aspirations anymore," she said. "I wanted to make it possible for my love for Judaism to occupy a more central part of my professional life."
In the fall of 1997, Dr. Gold once more threw her life into disarray, closing her practice in Ann Arbor to begin rabbinical studies in New York. She sees a few patients in New York and says she hopes to fuse elements of her new and old careers. Before Dr. Gold left Michigan, her rabbi pointed out that she was giving up a thriving practice, but she remains certain that her decision was the right one.
"There are different circumstances which wake people up to the fact that we have to take responsibility for those aspects of our lives over which we have control," Dr. Gold said.
Her moment of crisis lead her to forge new goals. Other young people may return to plans they had abandoned years before as impractical. Mr. Kwon, the investment- banker-turned-aspiring-screenwriter, had toyed with majoring in English at Harvard, but to his parents' delight settled on the "more practical" course of study, economics.
Although Mr. Kwon was envious when a classmate in a creative writing course, Alec Berg, became a head writer for "Seinfeld," he does not completely regret his own decision to go into investment banking. His Wall Street earnings have saved him from waiting tables while writing screenplays. And he has used his financial skills to secure enough money -- Mr. Kwon calls it fund raising -- to film one of his screenplays, a romantic comedy. He plans to begin shooting in the fall, using $100,000 he has made day trading Internet stocks.
Others may disagree, but Mr. Kwon, who is married but has no children, sees himself as having made the responsible decision. In a few years, he said, it would disrupt his family far more if he gave up a lucrative job to write. And he did not want to reach 50 full of regrets over not pursuing a more satisfying career. "I don't want a midlife crisis," he said. "I'd rather have it now."
His parents have been supportive, Mr. Kwon said, although they see his screenwriting as a phase that will pass. His in-laws, he said, are slightly less sanguine. "They thought they were marrying their doctor daughter off to this professional," he said. "Then they thought, 'Oh, my god, he is a beatnik.' "
There is nothing like a young-life crisis to reveal an attitude gap between parent and child. Since graduating from Yale in 1991, David Sampliner has prepared for a career as a teacher and scholar. Mr. Sampliner, 29, worked at Phillips Academy in Massachusetts and Solomon Schecter Day School in West Orange, N.J., then studied for a Ph.D. in history at New York University. But in February, he shelved his partly completed dissertation, split with his live-in girlfriend, bought a car and headed south.
"As my father put it: 'David has broken up with his life,' " Mr. Sampliner said. He works nights at the counter of Jittery Joe's, a coffeehouse in Athens, Ga., and mornings making omelets at Bluebird, a vegetarian restaurant. He bought a mattress and a desk but has not put down any roots.
"I never did the utterly purposeless wandering where you find out what you want to do, who you are," he said before his trip.
While Mr. Sampliner's father, James, a surgeon, says he is supportive of his son and does not want to drive a wedge between them, he also makes clear that he thinks people should finish what they start. David, said Dr. Sampliner, 61, "reflects a generation that is a little different than our goal-oriented generation."
"People in our generation followed a straight line to a career," he said. "When I had a chance to deviate from my career, the other choice was to go into the Army and go to war." During the Vietnam war, he was drafted into the Public Health Service.
In recent years, he has watched David and David's older brother, Michael, and their friends change directions often. They work hard, he said, but it is not work for its own sake or for the sake of a family. This generation "wants to work hard, make money, then go to the mountains," he said. To Dr. Sampliner, who likes to quote Paul Kennedy's "Rise and Fall of the Great Powers," that shift in priorities is a sign that society has become more hedonistic. "They are less concerned with leaving their mark on society," he said, "so to lollygag around is O.K."
Dr. Gerson, the N.Y.U. sociologist, agrees with Dr. Sampliner that many young-life crises are a result of social change. But where Dr. Sampliner sees a threat to American civilization, Dr. Gerson sees a generation of young people who are trying to better balance hard work and family life. Where Dr. Sampliner sees young people who don't finish what they start, Dr. Gerson sees people who believe in second chances as they strive for the perfect career and the perfect partner. The crisis among young people "is not surprising," she said. "There is more freedom to do that and more need to find satisfying work."

Giving Up a Life In Order to Get One
In August, two years after a burned-out Steve Brotman reassessed his priorities and decided to leave the Ad One Classified Network, he and his wife, Paula, expect their first child. His new life allows him to work at home, and gives him the luxury, he points out, of baking cookies or doing laundry in the middle of the day.
Mrs. Brotman, a classified advertising manager for a weekly newspaper in New Jersey, points out that having the opportunity to do laundry, and actually doing it, are two different things. "If I called him, he would put a load of laundry in, but then he would forget to put it in the dryer, so I don't even bother anymore," she said. "It was a really nice thought, though, wasn't it?"
Mr. Brotman is a general partner of Silicon Alley Venture Partners, a company he started to invest in and advise Internet start-up companies. He works hard, he said, but not with the same chaotic intensity he once did. "At 26, I was willing to give up a life because I didn't have one," he said. "But at 31, life is more complicated. At 26, all you have is the ability to work hard. Later on you have more experience and wisdom."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I don't want a midlife crisis," says Dan Kwon, who was 25 when he left his $160,000 job as a Wall Street investment banker to move to San Francisco and write screenplays. "I'd rather have it now." (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Steve Brotman tired of juggling 10 credit cards to keep his fledgling company afloat. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); David Sampliner's Ph.D. disseration is on the shelf and he's flipping omelets in Georgia. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); Lucy von Brachel, far right, and Katherine Pushkar plan a cross-country bike trip. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times); Lee Whitley, above, "was married" to his job at Merrill Lynch, often working 72 hours straight. (Steve Jones for The New York Times) Laura Gold left her practice as a psychologist to become a rabbi. (Bar-bara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Graph: "WORKWEEK: No Slackers Here"
Percentage of college-educated 25- to 32-year olds who worked more than 40 hours a week.
 
1977: 55 percent
1997: 73 percent
 
(Source: Families and Work Institute)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (59%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (59%); FAMILIES & WORK INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); BURN INJURIES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: BARNES, JULIAN E MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



539 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Euro Has Plenty of Time To Challenge the Dollar

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
WESTERN EUROPE'S new currency, the euro, ought to be a powerhouse, already diminishing America's place in the global economy. Such was the advance billing. But nearly four months into its existence, the euro is hardly noticeable on this side of the Atlantic.
That is not too surprising. Even thoroughbred currencies inch their way up rather than leaping. Children now in diapers may be finishing college before lives are changed by the existence of the euro. And even then, a solid American economy -- one that has avoided the deterioration of severe recessions -- would dilute the impact. The robust economy today keeps the focus on dollars, not euros. 
 Still, the euro's potential challenge to the dollar's dominance is considerable. "Establishing a European currency that will rival the dollar is indeed one of the points of the whole exercise," said Peter Kenen, an international economist at Princeton University.
Not since the dollar finally eclipsed the British pound after World War II has a currency had the potential to eclipse the dollar. In the process, the euro could lift its 11 sponsoring nations toward the top of the heap in political and economic power. Neither the German mark nor the Japanese yen, the closest rivals until now, represents a population or an economy as large as those of the United States. But the euro does.
American hegemony could give way to a 21st century in which America and Europe vie with each other, says Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economist. A more solidified Europe, thanks to the euro, "creates the potential for political clash," he said. France might even succeed in putting one of its generals in charge of NATO in place of an American. Mr. Feldstein argues for diluting European power by dealing with governments there separately, not as a union.
The other great concern is the American trade deficit. Rather than lend so much to Americans to help pay for imports and for spending abroad, the world's investors could funnel some of their money into the new haven. Euro investments in a powerful Western European economy would become an alternative to Treasuries and other holdings in the United States. And Americans would find themselves scratching for overseas loans to finance their way of life -- pushing up interest rates to attract enough money.
"I would not be surprised to see a significant shift to euro investments when and if the marketplace focuses on the widening American current account deficit," said William Cline, chief economist at the Institute for International Finance, referring to all of the nation's international transactions.
According to the advance forecasts, the shift to euros was supposed to have begun as soon as the euro was born, on Jan. 1. But the money did not flow. The euro rose by only a penny from its initial value of $1.17 and then fell steadily to just over $1.06.
The means were there. Checking accounts, traveler's checks and credit card purchases are all now available in euros, as well as in the national currencies of Germany, France, Italy and the eight other countries in the European Union. Hundreds of billions of dollars in stocks, bonds and government securities are denominated in euros. And in 2002, after the new European Central Bank begins to issue euro coins and paper bills, the old currencies will vanish.
BUT confidence in the euro, for all its powerful backing, comes slowly at all levels. American Express says European merchants have sent in only 5,000 credit card charges in euros since Jan. 1, a tiny number. Tourists report that traveler's checks in dollars are far easier to cash in Europe than checks in euros. And central banks continue to keep most of their foreign reserves in dollars, hardly changing the mix since the euro's arrival.
The resistance runs deeper. Even though they are all denominated in euros, European government securities are still issued by the 11 different member countries, with each nation's paper bearing its own separate risk and credit rating, just as municipal bonds issued by different American cities do. As a group, euro securities may represent as huge a market as American Treasuries and corporate bonds, but they do not constitute as unified a market.
"As European financial markets grow and develop, and demonstrate their stability and unity, the euro will gradually rival the dollar, but over a period of decades," said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley.
The euro arrived just as the American economy completed three years of robust economic growth and Western Europe found itself in a slowdown -- bad timing. "People have been saying for the longest time, 'Shouldn't we worry about the euro?' " Mr. Eichengreen said. "And we should, if the European economy becomes the engine for the world and we stop being the engine." Or if the United States plunges into confidence-robbing troubles like those that characterized the 1980's: inflation, rising deficits, a real estate bubble that burst, a savings and loan crisis.
Then the alternatives were the mark and the yen, neither with the euro's potential for luring worried investors in the event of another dismal spell for the American economy. The 21st century would not then be an American century, but rather a century shared by the United States and Europe. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE; EUROPE CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (62%); WORLD WAR II (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN STUART FELDSTEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



540 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Bill Bradley's Challenge

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I looked around to see who might be yawning or nodding off. Bill Bradley had been speaking for more than half an hour and there had been no jokes, no glorious turns of phrase, no splendidly worded calls to action. In fact, the former Senator who is now running for the Democratic nomination for President had a tendency to botch this line or that, and then go back and dutifully say it correctly.
Martin Luther King he's not. 
 But the young men and women in the Wollman Lounge at Cooper Union were paying close attention, and their body language was interesting. Mr. Bradley was talking about race relations, a topic that is talked about incessantly but still makes most people uncomfortable. Yet as he spoke last Tuesday afternoon the people in the audience were focused intently on his every utterance, with some of them leaning forward in their seats, as if straining to hear at least one clear and intelligent voice in the midst of a maddening din.
Mr. Bradley's approach to race relations is an almost irresistible target for cynics. He did not tell his audience that Americans can do better, but rather that we can be better.
He said the road that lies ahead "for those of us who want better racial understanding" stretches far beyond the struggles of the civil rights movement, or the continuing fight over affirmative action and equal treatment in the workplace.
"Our task is more difficult," he said, "and more subtle -- but if we're successful, more long-lasting. It is to vanquish racial discord from our hearts and spirit."
As you watch Mr. Bradley earnestly delivering his speech you come to realize he actually believes this is possible. Maybe he knows something. Maybe it's not so strange for someone who has been a champion athlete and a United States Senator (and who thinks he can be President) to aim incredibly high.
"I care about getting beyond the stupidity of racial division to a time when we can accept each other for who we are," he said. For whatever reasons, probably the quiet sincerity of Mr. Bradley's delivery and the trusting and attentive attitude of his young audience, the words did not sound platitudinous.
The fact that it would take an almost unimaginable effort to hoist ourselves to the level of social and moral excellence envisioned by Mr. Bradley did not seem to concern him. "For something so palpably right to be so demonstrably hard to accomplish only strengthens my determination," he said.
Mr. Bradley's speech would have gotten more media attention if it had not been delivered on the same day that the massacre occurred at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo. But the speech was not a one-time thing. Mr. Bradley has made his commitment to "a deeper racial unity" a cornerstone of his campaign and insists it will be a major focus of his administration if he is elected President.
"When Ronald Reagan was President, everyone knew that if you wanted to please the boss you talked about cutting taxes, increasing military spending and fighting Communism," he said. "If I'm President, I want one thing to be known: If you want to please the boss, one of the things you'd better show is how your department or agency has furthered tolerance and racial understanding."
This is risky stuff. The economy and whatever is happening in Kosovo next year will be far higher on the list of most voters' concerns than a quest for deeper racial unity. I asked Mr. Bradley in an interview why he had decided to make race relations such an important part of his campaign.
"Because this is one of my most deeply held beliefs," he said. "And it's important, I think, when you run for President that you share the deepest part of yourself with the people so they understand who you are."
We'll find out soon enough whether a heartfelt commitment to racial unity is a plus or a minus in a national campaign. Meanwhile, it's refreshing to have a Presidential candidate engage the subject in a sustained and unequivocal way.
Commentators have had a field day with politicians who believe in little or nothing and are shaped largely by the polls. Now comes Bill Bradley with, gasp, a whiff of the idealist about him. He thinks the public is ready for honest leadership on some of the weightier issues of our time.
Stay tuned. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



541 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Why Governments Tumble;
India's Poorest Are Becoming Its Loudest

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: NEW DELHI

 BODY:
SINCE the Hindu nationalist-led Government collapsed a week ago, the noisy, gaudy spectacle of Indian democracy has played out here in the capital on familiar public stages: the steps of Parliament House, the courtyard of the President's residence and at the closed gates of the Gandhi family compound.
But the political turmoil that has seen five governments come tumbling down here in just six years is not merely the result of cantankerous rivalries among the country's political parties or the often venal, self-serving antics of its politicians. 
 Even more crucial are profound political changes taking place in hundreds of thousands of villages where most of the nation's 980 million people live and vote. Researchers have learned from election and survey data that in the 1990's the country's most oppressed people -- the low castes, the poor, the illiterate -- have been voting and joining political parties in growing proportions, as have women, who were long at the fringes of the nation's political life.
Many of these voters are flocking to the caste-based and regional parties that more directly reflect their own identities and interests and that now hold the power to make and to break governments.
The India that for most of its history was dominated by the dynastic reign of the Nehru-Gandhi family in the Congress Party has given way to a cacophonous multiplicity of parties, some of them led by populist politicians who metaphorically poke a finger in the eye of the country's Brahmin elite at every opportunity.
Remarkably, the poorest Indians are now more likely to vote than the richest ones. This turns on its head what was true here only a quarter of a century ago, and what is still true of American and European democracies: namely, that the prosperous are more likely to vote than the disadvantaged.
"We've entered what political scientists call a decade of realignment," said Yogendra Yadav, who has researched these trends at the Center for the Study of Developing Societies here. "The stable alignments have broken down and a new era when these linkages are rewoven has begun. One of the consequences of this massive redefinition is instability at the top."
The center's study of survey and voting data found that the current decade has witnessed increased voter turnout, rising membership in political parties and a deepening faith in democracy itself among the people at the bottom of India's deeply inequitable social structure. The study is to be published soon by Oxford University Press as part of a book on Indian democracy produced in cooperation with the University of Pennsylvania's Institute for the Advanced Study of India.
As an example of the trends, the percentage of people from formerly untouchable castes who said they were members of political parties rose from 13 percent in 1971 to 19 percent in 1996, while the percentage from the upper castes who said they belonged to a party declined from 36 percent to 28 percent.
The percentage of very poor people who believe voting makes a difference rose from 38 percent in 1971 to 51 percent in 1996, and jumped from 42 percent to 60 percent for low caste people.
At first, their belief in the power of the ballot seems puzzling. State and national governments have often failed to deliver to the poor the most basic services -- education, health care and clean drinking water among them -- as well as a more rapidly growing economy that could help more people escape poverty.
But in a country where government still plays a central role in the economy and dispensing public goods, politics has given the lower castes the power to claim a share of patronage -- everything from schools to housing to wells to jobs in government.
"People want to come to power to make money," said Jairam Ramesh, an economic policy advisor in the Congress Party. "The goodies are in power."
SCHOLARS say politics has also provided a route to something less tangible but perhaps even more potent politically: pride, dignity and the confidence to fight back against the kinds of indignities the low castes have suffered for millennia -- of being contemptuously called by their caste names, of being forbidden to draw water from the same wells as the upper castes, of being denied the right to ride a horse in a wedding procession like an upper caste groom.
No place better exemplifies both the failings of government and the democratic ferment transforming Indian politics than Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous and most politically powerful state and one of its most impoverished, dysfunctional ones.
For the first four decades after Indian independence in 1947, politics in Uttar Pradesh was dominated by upper castes in the Congress Party, but Congress has been out of power there throughout the 1990's. "The Congress Party never saw fit to have a Dalit chief minister in Uttar Pradesh, though Dalits have the single largest proportion of voters," Mr. Ramesh, the Congress economic advisor, said ruefully, referring to people from castes formerly regarded as untouchable.
In the 1990's, two non-Brahmin, non-upper-caste parties have won growing clout in Uttar Pradesh, and both have played important roles in the latest bout of political turmoil in the capital.
Mayawati, a Dalit woman and a leader of the Bahujan Samaj Party, which is built on the votes of Dalits, pulled the rug out from under the ruling coalition led by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which has been predominantly run by upper castes.
Mayawati, who like many lower caste women goes by one name, became a symbol of hope to Dalits in two brief terms as Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh in the late 1990's. She lulled the Hindu nationalist leaders into believing her 5 members of Parliament would remain neutral in the confidence vote on April 17. But in the end, her party's legislators all voted against a Government led by people they believed had betrayed them in Uttar Pradesh politics. The national coalition Government lost power by a single vote.
And last Friday, the Samajwadi Party, whose voting base is with Muslims and Yadavs, the middling cow herd's caste, foiled the Congress Party's efforts to form a minority government with the support of smaller parties. The Samajwadi Party leader, Mulayam Singh Yadav, said his 20 members of Parliament would not support any new government unless they were part of it.
Neither Mayawati nor Mr. Yadav is willing to accept crumbs from the tables of the two major national parties. They want to be at the table themselves.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: India's women are joining political parties in growing numbers. A line at a polling station in Raghopur in the state of Bihar during general elections in February 1998. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (61%); CONGRESS PARTY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS PARTY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (91%); TRENDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



542 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: The World;
It's a Wonder This Alliance Is Unified

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
FOR most of the half-century it is celebrating in Washington this weekend, NATO's very existence has been rooted in the idea of a grand design -- to guarantee the safety of the West against the East, to forge a common defense of democracy against tyranny, to prepare, in effect, for World War III.
But now, as NATO's forces press their first true combat mission in a messy conflict in Kosovo, the allies and their neighbors are discovering that war is not just about the grand design of thwarting tyranny, but about niggling details and political line calls. 
 Kosovo is more than just America's war or even NATO's war. It is an ominous prism refracting the national interests of the allies (and their neighbors) from the most sweeping political considerations to the most mundane. For each of the nations involved, the conflict has shades of meaning and ambiguity, revealing the alliance on its 50th anniversary as an assembly of agendas in uneasy cohesion -- and raising the question of whether it can survive an escalation into a ground war.
Consider, for instance, matters as basic as river traffic on the Danube halted by NATO's bombing of bridges, or faltering tourism in Greece and Croatia -- consequences of war that show that the conflict's price will be paid in many coinages, from Budapest to Athens.
Contrast those economic consequences with much bigger, almost metaphysical themes: Germany's fraught dilemma between avoiding embroilment in war while joining in the common campaign against horrors all too familiar from its own past. There is also the perennial fear in Europe -- in Italy, Germany and France in particular -- of being overwhelmed by unwelcome refugees whose presence, political leaders fear, would feed domestic tensions and right-wing extremism.
And consider the dynamics of those lands -- Italy and Greece -- that provide the ports and airfields for a war their people and political elite do not universally approve. Then there is raw, geopolitical ambition -- British in particular, but French, too -- to show military leadership in a continent more used to Uncle Sam's coattails, and to promote the idea of European cohesion, absent for much of this decade's Balkan agony.
"Given the potential for division, the unity has been quite amazing," said Gordon Adams, Deputy Director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
To say that NATO's members come to the table with varied baggage -- both from their histories and from more modern times -- is an understatement. And it is difficult to categorize their concerns without oversimplification: Like overlays on a presentation board, they overlap, cross-reference and sometimes contradict one another.
In purely economic terms, the damage is felt not just by the allies but by their non-alliance neighbors. At one point last week, over 100,000 tons of waterborne freight intended for Austria, Germany and Hungary were marooned on the Danube in Romania. An Austrian shipping company said it was losing $77,000 a day because of NATO bombing of Danube bridges.
Tourists in droves have canceled vacations on Croatia's Adriatic cost -- much too close to the bombing for beach-lounging comfort. Even in Greece, a tour operator said thousands of Americans had postponed visits in case the Kosovo conflict spills southward. And a ground war -- not to mention the likelihood of a massive postwar reconstruction bill -- would strain budgets across Europe. Even now, simply to keep one British Tornado warplane airborne for an hour costs Britain's taxpayers $33,000. A single payload of bombs costs $640,000, according to defense analysts.
But economic woes may turn out to be far less intractable than some of the political conundrums thrown up by the alliance's embroilment in Kosovo.
It makes for a patchwork of uneasy bedfellows. For example, Spain and Turkey, different in so many other ways, are both NATO members committed to supporting the alliance's aims in Kosovo. But both are also locked in their own conflicts against separatists -- respectively, Basques and Kurds -- who are demanding pretty much the same things sought by the Kosovars whom the two nations purport to defend in the Balkans.
"The totalitarian exclusiveness of nationalism engenders genocide and ethnic cleansing," warned Jose Maria Aznar, Spain's Prime Minister. So why wage war in league with Kosovar separatists?
SPAIN, of course, doesn't have a strategic interest in the Balkans, but Turkey does. Its Ottoman forebears drew the very fault lines of faith and ethnic division that have baffled Western policy makers in the Balkans through two world wars and now for most of the 1990's. And that legacy draws an arc of solidarity embracing Muslim communities from Thrace in Greece to Albania and Bosnia that, some fear, could pull Ankara toward a wider conflict.
No one is more sensitive to that configuration of faith than the Greeks, whose mirror-image sense of kinship with the Orthodox Christian Serbs places the Government of Prime Minister Costas Simitis in a curious position, caught between the powerful pro-Serb impulses of his compatriots and the broader pro-Western interests reflected in Athens' enthusiastic drive to join the European single currency. Orthodox Christianity, indeed, provides a critical link of religious identities, stretching from Athens to Belgrade and on to Moscow.
Urged on by the Greek Orthodox Church, Greeks have demonstrated against NATO's Kosovo campaign, even as the Greek port of Thessaloniki is being used to resupply the 12,000 NATO troops in neighboring Macedonia. At the same time, Mr. Simitis' popularity has risen sharply in opinion surveys, underlining the keen desire of many Greeks to see the war contained as far as possible from their borders, avoiding a broader conflict with Turkey.
Yet here, too, is another overlay, this time from the cold war: If anyone within NATO supports Yugoslavia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, it is Europe's Communists and ex-Communists, who are usually depicted as discredited and spent. The small Greek Communist party -- in tacit alliance with the Orthodox Church -- has helped stage anti-Western demonstrations in Athens. Elsewhere, ex-Communist leaders from eastern Germany and Italy have rushed to Belgrade. Significantly, German opinion surveys show support for the war running at 59 percent in western Germany, but only 38 percent in the former Communist east.
Perhaps surprisingly, this catalog of diversity has not dented the high degree of support across Europe for the Kosovo campaign. Almost universally, Europeans have been horrified -- even ashamed -- by images of refugees streaming out of Kosovo and into a collective memory of the even more massive upheavals of the Second World War.
Strikingly, even those former central European lands that have only just joined the alliance have not broken ranks: Hungary hasn't, and it is on the very front line, with 300,000 Hungarian brethren forming a minority in Yugoslavia's Vojvodina region, and potentially vulnerable to Serbian reprisal.
BUT, more cynically, it is the refugees that propel policies that, in the words of Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, are about moral imperatives and a "just war."
No European power wants a huge influx of outsiders straining the social fabric and state coffers at a time of widespread unemployment.
Italy thus was among the first to send 2,000 troops to Albania to help in humanitarian relief. As on many occasions in recent years, Rome's policy was driven by a calculation that it is preferable to deal with refugees' distress at long range rather than at home.
Greece is already home to 400,000 Albanian immigrants, and the authorities in Athens fear that a flood of Kosovo Albanian refugees could unsettle their land.
Only belatedly last week did France, with its uneasy immigrant population, reverse its refusal to accept even small numbers of refugees. And, after providing sanctuary for some 300,000 Bosnians, many Germans feel they have done enough. Such thinking underpins European calls for a postwar reconstruction strategy on the scale of the Marshall Plan to stabilize the Balkans into the 21st century.
"The priority should be to look after people in the region where they have sought refuge and with which they are linked by language and culture," said Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. "Any other policy would make us de facto accomplices of Belgrade's policy of deportation."
It is in Germany, of course, that the Kosovo campaign conjures the sharpest dilemma of all, testing many of the nation's postwar assumptions and straining the unity of its coalition Government.
The idea of German troops going to war -- in the Balkans of all places -- deeply offends many Germans nurtured on postwar pacifism. But the notion that, as a NATO member and European leader, modern Germany should stand by is equally repellent, particularly to those who have learned in school that they bear a special responsibility to guard against a revival of the atrocities that mark their nation's past.
"Given our German history," Mr. Schroder said, "we cannot leave any doubt about our reliability, determination and steadfastness."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "One NATO, Many Fish to Fry"
America's 18 alliance partners view the Kosovo war from sharply different perspectives. Some highlights:
 
Belgium -- More inclined to back the air war than ground combat. The war could become an issue in national elections June 13.
 
Britain -- Having shunned the euro, it sees its principal area of European influence in its military readiness and close ties to the United States. Prime Minister Tony Blair calls the Kosovo war a war for justice.
 
Canada -- Grudgingly accepts its role in the air war, but laments loss of the peacekeeping mantle worn proudly by the country for the past 50 years.
 
Czech Republic -- Despite support from President Vaclav Havel for the air war, public backing is muted in this new NATO nation. The Czech armaments industry is suspected of selling to both Serbs and Kosovars.
 
Denmark -- Conservatives see the Kosovo war as a reason to scale back Social Democratic defense cuts.
 
France -- By joining the air war, it has swallowed its aversion to American command of NATO. But it still seeks a more independent European defense profile. Fears a refugee flood.
 
Germany -- Haunted by World War II, it balances aversion to war against revulsion over genocide. The formerly Communist east is less enthusiastic about the bombing than the west. Germans fear a refugee influx that could inflame the right wing.
 
Greece -- Torn between loyalty to NATO and loyalty to the Serbs, who like the Greeks are primarily Orthodox Christian. Domestic anti-NATO sentiment is running high. Tourism is being hurt. Some of Greece's road routes through the Balkans have been cut. Still, Athens seeks to join the single European currency, and sees its long-term interests best served by alliance with the west. Thessaloniki is being used to resupply NATO in Macedonia.
 
Hungary -- Like Poland and the Czech Republic, it became a NATO member just before war began. Trade has been hurt by blockage of the Danube River thanks to bombing. Concerned about the 300,000 ethnic Hungarians in Vojvodina. NATO uses Taszar air base.
 
Iceland -- Has no army, but the Government supports the NATO campaign.
 
Italy -- Fears a refugee flood. Numerous air bases are being used for NATO raids. The moderate ex-Communist Prime Minister, Massimo D'Alema, relies on Communist hard-liners to stay in power, and balances his Western European aspirations against the desire for a negotiated peace with the ex-Communist Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic.
 
Luxembourg -- This financial center worries that a prolonged conflict could further weaken the euro.
 
Netherlands -- Public generally supports the war effort. The 1995 massacre by Serbs at Srebrenica, as Dutch peacekeepers stood by, weighs heavily on the Dutch conscience.
 
Norway -- Thought likely to support United Nations intervention if the NATO campaign fails.
 
Poland -- Its main concern is anything that alienates neighboring Russia from the West -- like the Kosovo war. But public opinion is behind the air war.
 
Portugal -- Supports the NATO campaign, but not wholeheartedly: Many Portuguese recall costly colonial wars in Africa that ended in the 1970's.
 
Spain -- With his Basque problem in mind, Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar says Kosovo highlights the perils of separatism.
 
Turkey -- Largely Muslim, Turks are sympathetic to the primarily Muslim Kosovars. Turkey has longstanding tensions with Greece, its rival within NATO. A paradox: Turkey's own harsh campaign against separatist Kurds.
 
Map of Europe highlighting NATO airfields, NATO members, and Kosovo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); GREECE (94%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); ITALY (93%); FRANCE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); POLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CROATIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); GREECE (94%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); ITALY (93%); FRANCE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); POLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CROATIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



543 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: The World: NATO's War Aims;
The Test: Getting the Refugees Home

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
YET another specter is haunting Europe, and not just Europe this time: the specter of the permanent refugee.
With hundreds of thousands of Albanians uprooted in Kosovo and spilling across the borders of Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, some diplomats see the crisis as a defining moment in how the world thinks about the temporarily and permanently displaced. 
 NATO has declared as a fundamental war aim that the Kosovo refugees will get the chance to go back home when the fighting stops. But that isn't the way most wars have ended in this century. Look around the world, and the refugees who call themselves Palestinians, or Cambodians, or Bosnians have by and large not achieved that dream. In fact, millions of people around the world have become permanent refugees or, at best, have found new lives in a new diaspora.
So if NATO can accomplish its war aim, and reverse a campaign of ethnic cleansing, it would be achieving something quite new.
But it certainly will not be easy. Pushing out the Serb forces who expelled the refugees may well require a NATO invasion. Even if NATO goes that far, how many Albanians will be eager to return to a land where their homes have been burned, their husbands and brothers herded off to unknown fates, their former lives shattered?
Richard Betts, a political science professor at Columbia University, warns that in vowing that the refugees will return, NATO "may be making a promise we can't keep, or are unprepared to keep." On the other hand, Arthur C. Helton, who teaches refugee law at the New York University School of Law, worries that if return remains the measure of victory or defeat in the conflict, refugees may be forced or pressured into returning against their wishes.
So, in the end, is it possible that the war will end somewhat short of the goal, with a deal that implicitly acknowledges that the refugees will not be able to return safely?
That is already emerging as a fear among refugee advocates and Albanian-American groups. Some of these people fear that NATO betrayed a crack in its determination last week when the United States decided to permit some 20,000 Kosovar refugees being brought here for safety to be eligible, after a year, to become permanent residents.
Did this not suggest, some complained, that the refugees might not be returning to Kosovo once the fighting ends? Would that not be a a victory for ethnic cleansing and its architect, President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia?
Since NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia began a month ago, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that almost 600,000 of Kosovo's 1.6 million ethnic Albanians have left their homes and crossed into neighboring lands. Ominously, NATO said last week, Yugoslav forces were herding together another 850,000 Albanians inside Kosovo, possibly preparing to expel them, or worse.
The element in this equation that may make this refugee crisis different from others is that the Albanian Kosovars are more than mere byproducts of war. They were the declared reason that NATO went to war. One analyst calls them the "glue" of NATO solidarity.
And for NATO's European members, the motives are not simply altruistic. Even if the refugees don't flood into Western Europe itself, NATO officials fear that their continued presence may upset the delicate ethnic balance of Yugoslavia's neighbors, increasing instability.
L OOKING beyond Kosovo, diplomats and relief groups agree that finding a solution for refugee crises has become one of the world's greatest challenges. At the century's end, some 22 million people have been displaced by wars and civil conflicts. Some 2.6 million Afghan refugees languish in Pakistan, Iran, and camps in other countries, according to the United Nations Children's Fund. The total number of African refugees, displaced persons, and still vulnerable returnees now exceeds 7 million. At least 3.2 million Palestinians are still classified as refugees.
"The thinking about these people has evolved over the past decade," said David M. Malone, the president of the International Peace Academy, an independent group that studies the United Nations. "Before they were considered unfortunate victims of war whose plight had to be addressed. Over time they have become a major factor in peace and security. They are increasingly seen as a source of instability."
Slowly the world is acknowledging that many of these people will never go home. Still, "permanent refugees" pose daunting challenges not only to relief groups but to the states that might accommodate them. "We hate that term; we never use it," said Karen Koning AbuZayd, the refugee commissioner's Washington representative. "The term refugee implies a durable solution -- going home, being locally integrated, or being resettled."
Her agency's insistence on repatriation has sometimes been criticized when people are encouraged to return to politically and economically fragile countries. But Ms. AbuZayd says that it is what most refugees want. In this respect, she said, her agency can be proud. The numbers of people it cares for had dropped in recent years from 27 million to 22.5 million, half of them refugees. The agency has been closing down offices in Central America and Asia. About 1.7 million Mozambican refugees have gone home.
Some countries, in addition to contributing to United Nations relief efforts, have been extraordinarily generous in taking people in. Iran, she notes, is the world's biggest refugee host. In the Balkans, the biggest host has been Serbia, which has had to accommodate Serbs driven out of Croatia and parts of Bosnia.
But taking in refugees is not what NATO has been talking about. Getting them home is. And the Bosnian experience may be instructive.
The Dayton accords that ended the Bosnian war in 1995 specified that refugees could return home, but achieving safety for them in their old neighborhoods was another matter. By mid 1997, Mr. Helton says, about 300,000 refugees and displaced people had returned home, but very few of these went to areas where they would be in an ethnic minority. Meanwhile, 900,000 remained internally displaced and another 900,000 live abroad.
Mr. Malone thinks that if Kosovo is cleared of Serbian pressure, the refugees will return. "So it's important for NATO to decide soon what kind of Kosovo it wants and can achieve," he said. "An independent state? An international protectorate? A combination of the two?"
In any event, diplomats and relief workers have begun to wonder what precedents are being set in Kosovo. Some think the crisis is only receiving great attention because these refugees are Europeans, and few lessons will be learned.
Leonard Rubenstein, executive director of Physicians for Human Rights, a private group, has another fear: "If intervention to save peoples' lives fails this time and people are not protected or permitted to return, the impetus to try again next time may simply not be there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Permanent refugees are a fixture around the world. These Kosovo refugees share soup in a camp in Albania. (Joel Robine/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REFUGEES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



544 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 5; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
82% of School Budgets Are Approved by Voters

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Voters approved more than 82 percent of the school budgets in the annual school board elections last week, the highest rate since 1986. Board members and budgets were considered in 551 districts, and 456 approved their budgets, according to the New Jersey Schools Boards Association. Last year, 75 percent of budgets passed.
As in the mid-1980's, a healthy economy and low unemployment probably account for the high approval rate, said Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the association. 
 In addition to voting on the base school budget, voters must approve any spending that exceeds 3 percent over last year's. There were 176 of these so-called second-budget questions, and 66 percent were approved, compared with nearly 59 percent last year. Budgets and second-budget questions that are defeated are then decided by the municipal governing bodies. In about 100 districts, local officials vote on the school budget.
Turnout remained typically low at 13 percent of registered voters, compared with 14 percent last year. KAREN DeMASTERS 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SCHOOL BOARD ASSN NEW JERSEY SCHOOLS BOARDS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SCHOOL BOARD ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (94%); APPROVALS (92%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN FRANK BELLUSCIO (55%); KAREN DEMASTERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



545 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
For Island's Economy, A Solid Forecast

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
The Long Island economy will remain strong through 1999 but cool ever so slightly in the year 2000, a regional economist, Thomas Conoscenti, told the Long Island Regional Planning Board this month.
Mr. Conoscenti said the regional economy's current growth rate of 2.6 percent would slow to 2.5 percent next year, but still remain far above the 1.5 percent average growth rate of the past 30 years. 
 Factors in the vibrant regional economy, he said, included low interest rates, a strong national and New York City economy, high consumer confidence on Long Island and a record bull market on Wall Street.
In addition, Mr. Conoscenti said, a relatively stable inflation rate "has resulted in people being able to put money aside for large durable goods purchases and to accumulate cash to buy houses or other big-ticket items."
Mr. Conoscenti said Long Island had also completed a transition to a market-driven economy and no longer depended on military industries that were the foundation of Long Island prosperity during the expansive early and middle 1980's, when real-estate prices also soared.
But he counseled against elimination of county sales taxes on clothing items because of revenue shortfalls of $32 million in Suffolk and $71 million in Nassau that would result.
The planning board voted to recommend to both counties to continue collecting the full local share of 4.25 percent.
Lee E. Koppelman, the board's executive director, said board members were "very optimistic for 1999."
"The only concern we really have is whether we will have an adequate labor force for high-technology sectors," Dr. Koppelman said. "The recession we went through several years ago when Grumman closed up shop is over and we have made a complete recovery. These are good times and we expect they will continue through 1999, and there's no reason they won't continue after that.
"We see nothing on the horizon that would be negative unless the stock market collapses. And I don't think that will happen." JOHN RATHER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND REGIONAL PLANNING BOARD (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND REGIONAL PLANNING BOARD (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); SALES TAX (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CONOSCENTI, THOMAS; RATHER, JOHN THOMAS CONOSCENTI (94%); LEE E KOPPELMAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



546 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Strongman's Next Move Intrigues Dominicans

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, April 21

 BODY:
In a dusty neighborhood of wooden barracks here that house 1,600 families left homeless in a hurricane last year, Yudelki C. Savinon said she appreciated President Leonel Fernandez's efforts to help the victims, including starting construction on permanent housing nearby.
But even in her gratitude, she longs for another leader whom she regards almost as a father, one who is 92, blind and ailing. His name and face have been plastered all over this capital in posters and murals that proclaim, "Balaguer -- one more time, out of necessity." 
 "He can do anything, as long as he wants it," Ms. Savinon, 65, said of Joaquin Balaguer, the strongman who ruled here for 22 years and for whom she would vote again.
Mr. Balaguer was forced to step down in 1996 by a constitutional amendment that bars a second consecutive term for a president. But because the measure also prevents Mr. Fernandez from running again, Mr. Balaguer looms as a potential candidate for the elections in May 2000.
The turn of events reassures some and haunts others among the nearly eight million Dominicans. But it hardly surprises anyone.
"Dr. Balaguer loves power more than life itself," said Milagros Ortiz Bosch, a niece of former President Juan Bosch, and one of the people who are vying for the nomination of the Dominican Revolutionary Party, one of three major parties. "He wants a quota of power."
The possibility of Mr. Balaguer's candidacy, political analysts said, underscores how the nation that elected Mr. Fernandez in 1996, expecting sweeping changes, is still in transition from an authoritarian tradition to modern democracy.
The analysts said Mr. Fernandez's administration had had mixed results. He has presided over high economic growth and made the Dominican Republic an active player in Caribbean affairs after decades of isolation. Under his leadership, the nation restored diplomatic ties with Cuba, began high-level contacts with Haiti and was host to several top-level international meetings, with another planned for this year.
"He's admired as a young President with a relatively novel platform, with an understanding of the need to modernize institutions and with a very accessible personality," Jose Oviedo, a sociologist at Catholic University here, said.
But Mr. Fernandez, 45, a lawyer who grew up in New York, is also criticized for not having done enough about corruption and patronage, or about poverty, a fundamental problem for 60 percent of the population.
A hurricane that killed more than 200 Dominicans in September and exposed serious flaws in warning and emergency systems "showed how inadequate the state still is in the fulfillment of its obligations," said Anibal de Castro, publisher of Rumbo, a newsmagazine.
Mr. Fernandez, who inherited the problems from Mr. Balaguer, was forced into an alliance with Mr. Balaguer and his Social Christian Reformist Party to win in 1996. That, analysts and American diplomats said, has tied Mr. Fernandez's hands in making certain changes.
He has also joined the Reformists in decidedly undemocratic maneuvers to wrest control from the Revolutionary Party, which dominated congressional and municipal elections in May and now has a majority of legislative seats and mayoralties.
In one highly publicized incident in January, the police surrounded the headquarters of the Dominican Municipal League, through which the central Government channels money to municipalities. The police moved to prevent elections for league leadership during a fight for control of the institution among the three major parties. Mr. Fernandez eventually called for a dialogue among the parties, and the dispute is now in court.
"This is a country that is stumbling toward a new way of government," an American diplomat here said. "It's not pretty. But it's not particularly violent or repressive."
The parties have scheduled their nominating conventions for this year. Advertising is flooding the news media and the streets for the "precandidates."
Mr. Balaguer himself has not spoken on whether he wants to be a candidate. But political veterans say the Reformists do nothing without his consent. One called the party "his personal property."
Experts say Mr. Balaguer's chances of returning to the presidency are remote because his party has less than 10 percent backing in polls, trailing the Revolutionary Party, with 35, and Mr. Fernandez's Dominican Liberation Party, with 27.
Because no party has a majority, the Reformist push to nominate Mr. Balaguer is a way to maximize its political influence as a swing force. That makes him more likely to be a kingmaker than a serious candidate.
But Mr. Balaguer's readiness to enter the fray hinges on his health, which was set back this year. He was flown to Houston to treat circulatory problems and the flu. He returned walking better and looking more alert, many said, and apparently ready to seek a seventh presidency.
"He is extraordinarily lucid," Donald Reid Cabral, 76, acting president of Mr. Balaguer's party, said. "One is surprised at how many things he does during a day. He writes. He answers letters. He sees 10 to 15 people a day."
Mr. Balaguer, who remains a prolific writer and released his latest book, on ancient Greece, this week, declined an interview request through Mr. Reid Cabral. The former President said he was booked up.
In a television broadcast on Monday about the book, "Eternal Greece," he looked frail and shrunken, sitting in a high-back chair, as he listened with semiclosed eyes to speeches in his praise.
"I've tried in a simple language within the reach of all human intelligence to make available to Dominican youths a fundamental aspect of the universal culture, that of eternal Greece," Mr. Balaguer said in a raspy whisper.
Many Dominicans smile and roll their eyes when Mr. Balaguer is mentioned, saying that nothing about the long-serving former President surprises them. But some stressed that even when the country seems to take a step backward, it is going inevitably forward toward democracy, as shown by the two elections since Mr. Balaguer ruled politics.
"The country is marching slowly but profoundly toward solidifying its democracy," said Mr. de Castro, the publisher. "In the next years, we'll see a strengthening of institutions, an understanding of how the separation of powers works, and we'll have more accountable governments, no matter who wins."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joaquin Balaguer's political future depends on his health. He was helped from a plane in February on his return from treatment in Houston. (John Riley); Yudelki Savinon says she longs for Joaquin Balaguer's return. (John Riley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DOMINICAN REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOMINICAN REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HURRICANES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: JOAQUIN BALAGUER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



547 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Selling Sudan's Slaves Into Freedom

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: YARGUT, Sudan

 BODY:
Over the last few years, evidence has slowly solidified that slavery not only exists, but may be widespread in parts of Sudan. On a recent day in this tiny, scorching village, there seemed little to dispute that. Seated under trees, on dirt baked so hard that a child's foot barely made a mark, were several hundred women and children. They told stories of abduction and rape, of tending goats and wringing dirty clothes for their captors.
But there has been growing international scrutiny over the kind of transaction that followed. 
 "That's one million," John Eibner, a quietly intense American, said as he reached into a bag fat with Sudanese money. "That's two million."
He was counting out cash to pay a trader for 535 of the slaves, Dinka people from the south taken captive by Arabs from the north. The cost: 26.8 million Sudanese pounds, about $27,000, or $50 a person, the price of two goats. In a week, Mr. Eibner, an official with a Swiss group called Christian Solidarity International, bought freedom for 1,783 slaves -- by far the greatest number since he started coming to Sudan in 1995.
As the number of redeemed slaves and groups trekking to the war zone of southern Sudan to free them has risen, the practice is coming under fire. Critics say that redemption, which began locally in the early 1990's, is becoming big business, and that people like Mr. Eibner may even be inadvertently encouraging slave raids. "Once the numbers started to increase drastically, that caused people who follow the slavery issue to have a look at what is really going on," said Jemera Rone, counsel for Human Rights Watch in Washington.
Ms. Rone recently wrote a paper accusing the Sudanese Government of using slave raids as a weapon in its 15-year war with southern rebels and warning of the dangers of redemption. She worries that unscrupulous middlemen -- traders who bring the slaves back south -- may increase profits by packing groups of slaves with "borrowed" children, and that peace in Sudan may be discouraged if raiders have a financial incentive to keep the war going.
Last month, the United Nations Children Fund also raised some questions, partly in response to the American schoolchildren, in Massachusetts, Colorado and Oregon, who raise money for the cause.
"We want to try to deal with ending slavery as a fundamental change within Sudan, rather than having to watch human beings being bought and sold," said Stephen Lewis, Unicef's deputy executive director.
He said Unicef officials were working with Sudan -- which denies slavery exists but concedes "tribal" hostage-taking -- to allow a study of slavery and a mechanism for freeing captives. "We have to get rid of the practice, period," he said. "We need a political solution."
Unicef's position has in turn been criticized by, among others, a former New York Mayor, Edward I. Koch, who has written a column about the subject calling its stance "inconceivable." Others note that the Sudanese Government has been far from cooperative on the slavery issue.
Lady Caroline Cox, who runs a British group that redeems slaves, acknowledged that redemptions were "a gray area" but said they were unavoidable. "As far as redemption is concerned," she said, "we justify it by saying: it's not the answer but I don't think you can look a child in the face and say, 'I'm sorry, you have to remain a slave until there is a political solution.' "
Mr. Eibner, whose group claims to have freed 7,725 slaves since 1995, also sees redemptions as imperfect but necessary.
"Knowing that tens of thousands of people are still enslaved and knowing that we can get them out," he said, "I couldn't live with myself and say, 'Sorry, I'm stopping because of some criticism from an ivory tower in London or New York.' " Mr. Eibner, 46, is a native of Valhalla, N.Y., who lives in Geneva.
He was standing in a scrubby field between two groups of women and children who said, in random interviews, that they had been escorted back south after spending as long as five years in the north.
Local officials and other experts say slavery has long existed to some extent in Sudan, often involving Muslim masters and slaves who are Christians or animists. But, they say, the raids picked up in the late 1980's along with fighting between north and south. According to a recent United Nations report, an Arab militia known as the muruhaleen and the People's Defense Force, both aligned with the Government, guard a train that runs from the capital of Khartoum in the north to Wau, a Government garrison in the south.
Within 30 miles of either side of the track, these forces raid Dinka villages, mostly to steal cattle. But they also take hundreds of human captives -- or more -- to carry booty and to be used, the United Nations report alleges, for "cooking, cultivation, tending to animals, collecting firewood, washing clothes and other domestic chores."
The report, by the United Nations special envoy to Sudan, also alleges "rape, forced 'marriage' and other sexual abuse amounting, in some cases, to sexual slavery."
The stories of the women and children, in three groups interviewed over several days, were horrifying and consistent. Achol Tong Nyan, a Dinka woman about 27 years old, sat on the ground holding a baby whose bronze skin was many shades lighter than hers. The girl, she said, was the product of rape by her master, Ishmael.
"What can I say?" she asked. "I will treat her as my child."
She said she had been captured about a year earlier in the town of Warawar. Men on horses and in uniforms stormed the village.
She said 250 people were marched north. Ten died of thirst on the way. Another 20 were shot. One night, she said, she was raped by 10 men.
After spending time in a camp with other slaves in the town of Muglad, she said, she went to live with Ishmael. She slept in the kitchen, washed clothes, fetched water and was forced to have sex. Then, two weeks before she was redeemed, a trader visited. "I don't know what they paid Ishmael, but one day he called me in and introduced the trader," she said. "Ishmael said, 'He will take you back to your people.' "
Thik Anon Thik, a tall and thin boy of 11, said he too was taken in a raid about a year ago, kidnapped with his mother and five siblings from a village called Kuiel.
In the north he lived in a camp with other slaves and tended goats. He said he was often beaten. One night a guard helped him escape, bringing him to one of the half-dozen traders Mr. Eibner works with. Their business is to go to Arab homes and camps in the north and offer money for the slaves, even though they say they would be arrested if discovered.
One trader, who uses the name Ahmed Bashir, said he bought the slaves for $20 to $80 and averaged about $10 in profit per slave. He and the other traders who deal with Mr. Eibner claim that they only buy slaves that will be freed.
For Thik, freedom was not enough: He has not seen his family since he was captured.
"Now I am not happy," he said. "I'm alone and without my mother and father."
Critics argue that such stories are so numerous, and the slaves' movement so hard to conceal, that the Government must know about the trade, and may profit from it. Another suspicion is that southern officials, including the rebel groups, are getting a cut.
Father Renato Kizito, a Roman Catholic priest who travels to Sudan, said redemption "is extremely risky if it is not 100 percent truth. Khartoum will have an easy way of saying it was a trick."
Defenders of redemption say it has, at a minimum, raised awareness about slavery in Sudan. Baroness Cox notes that the price has not increased over the years. Mr. Eibner defends the program by saying he will not pay more than $50 a person. He says he will stop if redemption evolves into a "free market."
"Slavery long predated C.S.I.'s presence here," he said, referring to his organization. "There is no evidence that there is any more slavery since we started this.
"The fact is that slavery is not primarily economically motivated. The primary motive is political. The motive is the Government using these slave raids as a way to wage war on these people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A trader, his face masked, led a parade of hundreds of slaves in Yargut, Sudan, just before a Swiss group, Christian Solidarity International, bought and freed many of them, a practice that is growing. (Photographs by Cedric Galbe/Saba, for The New York Times); After the transaction, a trader who had sold more than 300 slaves into freedom, at the equivalent of about $50 a person, packed up his take.
 
Map of Sudan showing the location of Yargut: In the village of Yargut, groups of slaves waited for freedom recently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN SOLIDARITY INTERNATIONAL (82%); CHRISTIAN SOLIDARITY INTERNATIONAL (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN SOLIDARITY INTERNATIONAL (82%); CHRISTIAN SOLIDARITY INTERNATIONAL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SLAVERY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: JOHN EIBNER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



548 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: ATHENS;
NATO Bombing Tears at Greek Loyalties, Reawakening Anti-Americanism

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

DATELINE: ATHENS, April 23

 BODY:
Anti-American demonstrations, like dinner, start late in Athens. But for some Greek teen-agers, too young to remember similar riots of the 1960's and 1970's, protesting against the United States is still novel.
Hours before protesters and riot policemen clashed in front of the American Embassy on Thursday night, two sisters, Eleni and Constantina Vafiadou, sat by a fountain in Constitution Square expectantly ready to register their anger over the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. 
 "It's ludicrous to say the bombing is to help humanity," Eleni, 18, said over the rally's amplified Serbian music -- the soundtrack to "Underground," a popular Serbian film. "It's about the U.S. pursuing its own expansionist strategic interests."
Her 16-year-old sister explained the film's allegorical antiwar message her own way.
"It's like what Ashley told Scarlett," Constantina said, referring to characters in "Gone With the Wind." "After all the war and destruction, nobody remembers what they were fighting about in the first place."
Sympathy for the Serbs -- and a cultural affinity with the United States -- is deeply rooted in Greece. But the latter sentiment is being sharply tested. More than any other country in NATO, Greece has been struggling between loyalty to the Western alliance and outrage over the bombing nearby.
While Prime Minister Costas Simitis is attending the NATO anniversary summit meeting in Washington this weekend and has restated Greece's support, back home Greeks of every age and political conviction are voicing fierce opposition to what they view as an unjust war.
Some of the wrath stems from Greek ties to Serbia, a historic ally and key trading partner that shares the Orthodox Christian faith. Much of it is caused by anxiety over what a new war in the region could do to Greece's fragile economy and uneasy borders. But it is fueled by a revival of anti-American sentiment that, though dormant, has never really died.
Greece, which has been steering toward full integration with Europe, now finds itself pulled back into a tragic Balkan history, and into feelings that the United States played a pivotal role in Greek suffering. Greeks blame the United States for supporting the military dictatorship and for failing to prevent the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974. The bombing has not only created new fears but has also resurrected old grievances.
"America, way on the other side of the world, keeps interfering in something that is not their business, and that will not affect them," Margaret Liaveris, 25, a civil servant, said. "I find it so annoying when Clinton says, 'Our children need a free Europe.' Most of their children never even come here."
Her views, among them a fear that the conflict could destabilize the region and reignite tension with Turkey, are widely shared. A recent poll published by Greece's largest daily newspaper, Ta Nea, indicated that more than 95 percent of Greeks oppose the bombing. Some 63.5 percent of those polled expressed a favorable view of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. And 94.4 percent said they had a negative view of President Clinton.
Greek newspapers and television have fanned public discontent, stressing the suffering of Serbian civilians over the plight of Albanian refugees from Kosovo. And that has alarmed the country's 500,000 Albanian immigrants, who mostly work illegally, and are viewed with suspicion by many Greeks.
"I ask myself, why is Greece supporting Serbia; aren't they in NATO?" a 52-year-old unemployed immigrant said, adding that he relied on the Albanian-language service of Voice of America.
Some Greek journalists agree that there is an imbalance. "Greek television shows the exact opposite of what Americans see," Stelios Koulogrou, a well-known television documentary filmmaker, explained. "On CNN you see 80 percent refugees and 20 percent Serbs. On our channels it is the reverse."
Coverage of American news, meanwhile, is newly shaded by the war.
To the newspaper Ethnos, a center-left daily, the mass killings at a high school in Colorado this week had a direct link to NATO bombings. "The violence that Pentagon hawks are using in their foreign policy has boomeranged on social life in the U.S.," a front-page headline said on Thursday. "The evidence is overwhelming: 10,000 assaults in American schools each year."
A Greek naval officer who was given a two-and-a-half-year sentence this week for refusing to serve on a destroyer set to join NATO forces in the Adriatic has become a hero of left- and right-wing groups, as well as many in the Greek Orthodox clergy. Archbishop Christodoulos Paraskevaidis has described the bombers as "pawns of Satan."
Greeks have not taken their anger out on their Government, which has given NATO access to two air bases and its land routes into Macedonia, and is seeking a cautious balance between loyalty to NATO and support for a cease-fire. Since the crisis broke out, Mr. Simitis's ratings have risen.
"There is a silent majority that feels that Greece has no choice but to be prudent, prudent, prudent," said Thanos Veremis, who runs a foreign policy research institute in Athens. "We are a small, weak country and people feel that poor Simitis has no choice for now." He added, "But that of course could change."
Relations between Turkey and Greece have been relatively free of strain since the bombing began on March 24, but many Greeks nevertheless worry that the war will reignite that conflict.
"Thrace," a 25-year-old engineering student replied when asked about his opposition to the war. He was referring to the small Muslim minority in Thrace, whose rights are yet another sore point between Greece and Turkey, which is largely Muslim.
"Turks could use Kosovo as a precedent," he said. "As an excuse to demand autonomy for Muslims in Thrace."
He, like many others, complained that NATO was applying a double standard on human rights in the Balkans. As Eleni Vafiadou put it: "Albanians had some rights in Kosovo, but the Kurds in Turkey don't have any. Why hasn't the United States bombed Istanbul?"
The anxiety over the war is free-floating. The Greek stock market has fallen, some tourism agencies are reporting cancellations and Greek investment in Serbia, worth more than $1 billion, is at obvious risk.
Greek political leaders and voters speak passionately about the need to protect borders, fearing that any redrawing of the map of Kosovo could infect Macedonia or spawn Muslim aspirations of a "Greater Albania" including northern parts of Greece.
And there is growing talk of sinister American goals in the Balkans that have little to do with defending an oppressed minority.
"I think America is threatened by an independent Europe," said Leon B. Karapanayotis, editor in chief of Ta Nea, "and it is no accident that now the euro is falling against the dollar. The U.S. is asserting itself in Europe, and Europe is now considerably weaker. I suspect the U.S. has no reason to feel unhappy about this."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Constantina Vafiadou, left, and her sister, Eleni, oppose NATO's bombing. Eleni said the war was about American "strategic interests." (Associated Press for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GREECE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CYPRUS (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); GREECE (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CYPRUS (79%); TURKEY (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); RELIGION (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (57%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



549 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
A Nation Turns Its Eyes to Center Field, One More Time

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
The most haunting question in all of sports -- "Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio?" -- should be answered today. Joe DiMaggio has gone to the monument valley beyond center field in Yankee Stadium. While his body is not buried there, his spirit will be consecrated in that hallowed ground.
What each of us makes of his spirit, that is. 
 Private to the point of paranoia, DiMaggio took charge of his final illness with the same steely reserve that informed his baseball career, his marriage to Marilyn Monroe, his afterlife as living legend. He was his own curator. He allowed us to believe that his genius, like Albert Einstein's, Greta Garbo's, Orson Welles's, had earned him the right to be left alone except when he wanted attention, to be excused whatever smudges might appear on the shiny image.
We scrabbled to justify his aloofness as dignity (but never shyness or contempt), to find grounds for forgiveness in his coffee-maker commercials, to place him in historical context. He had ridden into our consciousness just as the myths of the frontier West were receding, one of a posse of cowboys in the outfield who became our new manly heroes, lone individuals standing just outside the group, our last defense.
He was the son of an immigrant, but graceful and cool, so all the immigrants' sons who were writing about sports identified with him and, in the words of the old sports editor Stanley Woodward, "Godded him up." DiMaggio was a demanding employee, especially around contract time, but fans forgave him because he seemed like such a passionate performer.
But that still doesn't quite explain this: even though some of his replacements in that very same outfield -- Mickey Mantle, Reggie Jackson, yes, Darryl Strawberry -- were infinitely more interesting and entertaining as human beings, it is DiMaggio who will continue to be beatified.
Soon, a major New York City highway will be renamed for DiMaggio, a major mistake. He may not deserve such a civic immortality, but he certainly doesn't deserve to be cursed by thousands of motorists every day stuck on an outmoded, graceless road. He will end up remembered for traffic jams, overheated cars, noise and fumes.
But then he does owe New York. The other great outfielders of his era might have become crossover personalities had they played here in the days when all the national media were only a cab ride away. Stan Musial, a harmonica rascal of almost silly geniality, could have become Lawrence Welk as a Yankee. Ted Williams was the man whom John Wayne tried to play in movies. When you recall that another Marine fighter pilot, John Glenn, spoke of the joy and comfort of flying into combat with Ted Williams on his wing, it is hard to ever again take another outfielder more seriously. Ted Williams's spit was too good for the fans it hit.
So why DiMaggio? There could be clues in the retirements of Michael Jordan and Wayne Gretzky, two men of privacy, discretion and cool who quit while they were still pleasures to watch. But Jordan and Gretzky overwhelmed and ennobled their sports; they might as well have been superior beings from another planet.
DiMaggio was not in their league.
In the long run, he didn't embarrass us, perhaps because we never got into all the nooks and crannies of his life. He was just smart enough to know he wasn't smart enough to unspool sound bites and commentary. We saw just enough to be able to make up the rest of him. Always dressed for dinner at "21", he drifted through the rest of his life with the same outward economy he displayed as he drifted under fly balls. He knew just where they would drop.
This was a lonely man of the night, we could imagine, a Sinatra without the mean streak. His skin color helped him; when Hank Aaron broke Babe Ruth's career home-run record, DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak suddenly became the most important record in baseball.
Strawberry was supposed to be the next DiMaggio. You could look it up. When the Mets brought him up in 1983, before his time, an unfinished 19-year-old, the front-office people actually compared him to the Clipper. What was done for Darryl and to him, what he could and couldn't do for himself, is another story, yet unfinished, too, but I must admit I have felt far more human interest for him than for DiMaggio.
Commentators have been beating up on Strawberry for letting us down. Poor Darryl, a wildly talented, madly destructive charmer, let only himself down. A case could be made for how poorly he was served by the Mets, and how even the Yankees needed to show more support. A recovering addict and recovering cancer patient who is a fading athlete unsure of his place on a team needs help and encouragement to come back from a slip.
Of course, this could never have happened to the Great DiMaggio. The Clipper was too tightly wrapped, the cops, gangsters and news media would have protected him, and he usually had a bobo at his side to hold his coat and bimbo, much less anything that could have been considered a controlled substance. Another haunting question is this: groomed to mature rather than just star, would Strawberry have become the next DiMaggio?
Last haunting question: where will you go, Darryl Strawberry?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The monument to DiMaggio will be unveiled today. (Associated Press, left; Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HISTORY (67%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (63%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (60%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH PAUL 'JOE' DIMAGGIO (94%); MARIE-GEORGE BUFFET (74%); GEORGE ORSON 'ORSON' WELLES (56%); GRETA GARBO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



550 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Whites' Bias Lawsuit Could Upset Desegregation Efforts

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., April 22

 BODY:
One could hardly blame Bill Capacchione for wanting his 6-year-old daughter Cristina to attend Olde Providence Elementary School.
The sparkling school set in Charlotte's fast-growing Southeast quadrant has 30 up-to-date Apple computers in its computer laboratory, a television studio where students produce and broadcast programs to all the school's classrooms and an involved parents' organization that raised $26,000 for supplies and student activities last year. 
 Olde Providence is a magnet school with an enriched academic program set up as part of a school desegregation plan ordered by a Federal judge in 1969. Some of the school's pupils are assigned there by lottery to maintain a student population that is 60 percent white and 40 percent black, reflecting the makeup of the district.
In 1996, Cristina, who is white, was denied admittance to Olde Providence because she was not selected in the lottery. Her father sued the school district, charging that his daughter had been denied admission because of her race. There are separate lotteries for blacks and whites.
The trial of the lawsuit by Mr. Capacchione, who was joined by six other white families, against the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education is under way in Federal District Court. The suit, which was broadened by the Reagan-appointed trial judge, Robert Potter, into a full legal assault on the district's integration plan, is being watched closely by civil rights advocates and conservative opponents of affirmative action and school desegregation plans that are based solely, or in part, on race.
The families are also seeking monetary damages because of the harm they say their children suffered.
The case has both historic and legal implications. In a 1971 decision, Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, the Supreme Court allowed Federal courts for the first time to impose far-ranging actions -- including the busing of students -- to integrate schools.
The school district curtailed the use of busing several years ago and nearly all of the 12,000 students who are still bused are black. Still, the school board and lawyers for black students who have intervened in the case want to retain the desegregation plan to insure that African-American students have access to some of the better schools, which tend to be in white neighborhoods, as is Olde Providence.
"Charlotte, after an initial period of resistance, became known as the place that made" massive transportation for desegregation work, said James E. Ferguson 2d, a lawyer representing the black students in the case and in the original case that brought about the desegregation plan. "So I think the eyes of the nation are on this place."
The white plaintiffs say the fact that Charlotte is under a Federal court order to integrate its schools is no defense against their complaint of reverse discrimination. The desegregation order, they argue, is 30 years old. The judge who issued it and monitored compliance has long since died and the school board has not filed any reports recently on how well its school integration efforts are proceeding, or whether such efforts are still practical or needed.
Should the plaintiffs win, and should the court award them the monetary damages they seek for the alleged harm done to their children, then the dozens of school districts still under decades-old court desegregation orders could be vulnerable to lawsuits from white parents, lawyers on both sides say.
"If this case goes in our favor," said Lee Parks, the plaintiffs' main lawyer, "it's going to signal to a bunch of districts that they have to bring these desegregation plans to an immediate close or run the risk of paying damages to parents who are harmed. There is going to be a price to pay if you try to hide behind court orders."
The current lawsuit threatens to disrupt the tenuous racial harmony that has existed in an area where conflict has been submerged by a rising tide of prosperity. The case has been a heated topic in the local newspapers and on radio talk shows.
Some blacks say that the suit stems from the influx of white professionals from the North who have helped increase the number of Charlotte school pupils to 100,000 over the last 10 years, making it the nation's 23d largest district, up from 29th. Many of the newcomers, drawn to Charlotte's suburbs by the area's balmy weather, low taxes and booming economy, have no memory of racial segregation and see little justification for maintaining efforts at integration.
As she watched her son Matthew hustle around a dirt running track at Olde Providence Elementary, Naomi Ballard spoke of being a volunteer at the school office and answering questions from newcomers who were surprised they could not automatically send their children to the school.
"They had moved into the neighborhood because they heard it was a good school and now they were being told they might not be able to send their kids there," said Ms. Ballard, who is white. "They're confused. It's like a foreign system to them."
Blacks are particularly incensed over the idea that the white plaintiffs are seeking monetary damages for the emotional harm they contend their children suffered from not getting into particular schools. On the witness stand this week, Mr. Capacchione, who moved to California after the suit was filed, testified that his daughter "felt she wasn't smart enough to get into Olde Providence."
Some school officials scoff at the notion that the girl suffered any emotional damage, noting that as a result of her rejection at Olde Providence, Cristina ended up at a school that was rated academically as one of the top 10 elementary schools in the state.
"Tell me how they are harmed," said Arthur Griffin, the chairman of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school board. "Tell me how you are harmed by going to a brand new school. Tell me how you are harmed with teachers that have higher credentials. Tell me how you've been harmed when you have access -- there's been no denial -- to quality education."
Mr. Parks, the plaintiffs' lawyer, agrees that the harm to Cristina and the other white plaintiffs may seem trivial compared with the suffering of blacks during segregation. But, the lawyer said, that should affect only the size of the award, not whether it should be granted.
"You might make that comparison and say, 'Cristina, get over it,' " he said. "But the board's policy still categorized people and told them where to go and where they can't go because of their race. You're talking about degrees of harm. When you get into constitutional law there aren't degrees of constitutionality."
Defenders of the desegregation plan say the lawsuit is part of a coordinated strategy to attack any state policies, like affirmative action plans, that confer advantages on blacks and other minorities. They note that Mr. Parks, the plaintiffs' lawyer, led the legal fight earlier this decade to overturn a Georgia redistricting plan that had created Congressional districts with large majorities of black voters.
Mr. Parks does not dispute that he is seeking to attack the use of race in a number of settings. But he argues that eliminating its use would merely put the country through some tough therapy that will not be as harmful to minorities as many fear. As evidence, he noted that those black representatives in Georgia like Cynthia A. McKinney and Sanford D. Bishop Jr., who saw the percentage of black voters in their districts plummet as a result of his suit, still won re-election.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A white father sued the school district in Charlotte, N.C., because his daughter did not get into the resources enriched Olde Providence Elementary School, where children were arriving, left. The Briarwood School, right, is 90 percent black, and parents say there is a shortage of materials. (Photographs by Bob Padgett for The New York Times); The Olde Providence Elementary School in Charlotte has enriched programs, including 30 up-to-date Apple computers and a TV studio.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (58%); CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG BOARD (90%); OLDE PROVIDENCE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG BOARD (90%); OLDE PROVIDENCE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); JUDGES (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); DAMAGES (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); 

PERSON: ROBERT G POTTER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



551 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2749 words

HEADLINE: WHAT PRICE GLORY?: A special report.;
Cuban Players Defect, but Often With a Cost

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: HAVANA

 BODY:
Reynaldo Ordonez Fiallo received a gift from America one day last month -- a new, unmarked baseball glove made of beautiful tanned leather. As a bonus, the glove came with a tag bearing a color photograph of his father, the slick-fielding shortstop for the Mets, who is also named Rey Ordonez.
The ecstatic 6-year-old ran around his grandmother's apartment, showing off not only the new-smelling glove but also the picture of the star shortstop. The glove, though, had not come from his father, but from a godmother in Miami. In fact, family members here say that the elder Rey Ordonez, who will make $1.6 million playing for the Mets this season, has played almost no role in the boy's life since leaving Cuba in 1993. 
 "He has never taken any interest at all in the boy," the child's mother, Hilda Maria Fiallo, said.
Fiallo's sense of abandonment is not the only kind of experience lived out by the families left behind as many of Cuba's best baseball players have fled the island in recent years. There are, too, tales of success and responsibility, even reunification.
Indeed, the details of Ordonez's defection and what has happened since are complicated. When Ordonez defected, his son was an infant, and he and Fiallo hoped they would be reunited in the United States as soon as he broke into professional baseball. But those plans were ultimately derailed by time and distance.
Since 1991, roughly 30 players have defected. For all of them, the decision was a calculated gamble involving conflicting ambitions and risks: the dream of playing in the major leagues; a desire to provide for their families; the possibility that they would never see their families again, or that their relationships with them could be permanently damaged.
And those gambles have played out differently. Some families have risked their lives at sea to escape and reunite. Some players have only been able to funnel money, clothing and mementos to their relatives. And there are a few, like Ordonez, who have become estranged from those they left behind.
Roberto Colina, a former first baseman on the Cuban national team, defected in 1996 and has managed both to support his family and reunite with his wife and daughter in Florida as he tries to earn a spot with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. He is now a designated hitter in the minor leagues for the Class AA Orlando Devil Rays.
But for Jorge Luis Toca, his act of daring and selfishness has produced more mixed results. Also in the minor leagues, he has sent money back to his parents and brother, but his relationship with the mother of his 3-year-old son has deteriorated, and it is unclear if they will ever share a life together again.
"It's a difficult step to take this decision," Colina said of the option to defect. "One doesn't know if one will be able to get the family out. It's not easy. I decided to go ahead and whatever happened, happened."
The exodus began in earnest in 1991, when Rene Arocha, a pitcher with the Cuban national team, walked off an airplane that made an emergency stop in Miami, and, in short order, stepped into a contract with the St. Louis Cardinals, for whom he pitched from 1993 through 1995.
Arocha's success, and a Cuban economy devastated by the collapse of the Soviet Union, underscored the promise of American baseball and multimillion-dollar contracts. Meanwhile, the Government's attempts to brand the players as traitors and stanch the exodus have backfired. In 1996 and 1997, for instance, the authorities banned several prominent players from baseball, accusing them of plotting to defect, only to see several loyal players, like Orlando Hernandez, defiantly leave the island.
Only a handful of the defectors have made it to the major leagues. Among them are Rolando Arrojo of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Livan Hernandez of the Florida Marlins, Orlando Hernandez of the Yankees and Osvaldo Fernandez of the San Francisco Giants.
Almost always, the Cuban authorities have not permitted the families to follow. A notable exception was made when John Cardinal O'Connor's personal request to Fidel Castro resulted in Orlando Hernandez's being joined by his former wife and two children. They now live in Miami.
In Cuba, the Government treats the players who left as if they do not exist, never mentioning them again in the state-controlled press. On the streets, however, they have become folk heroes to many citizens.
For their families left behind, the players are often something between invisible and heroic.
 
Sources of Money And Vessels of Pride
Like many Cuban emigres, most of the players send dollars back to their families, either through licensed travel agents or an established underground system of couriers. The remittances provide a desperately needed economic boost.
Beyond financial support, players who make it onto professional teams, even in the minor leagues, are also a source of great pride, a pride, however, often tempered with a sense of loss, especially for older parents, who cannot envision themselves emigrating.
Tears still form in Francisca Gomez's eyes when she explains the decision of her son, Toca, to leave Cuba. Sitting in her living room in the town of Remedios, Gomez says she understands why he left, but she wonders if she will ever see him again, filling the front door of her house with his athletic frame.
"He didn't want to go," she says. "He had everything here. A house. A family. His son."
Toca is currently playing first base for the Binghamton Mets, the franchise's Class AA club. He escaped Cuba on a tiny launch last year with three other players and a pitching coach.
Toca's relatives, however lonely, still support his decision, saying he had no choice. He had been suspended for life from Cuban baseball in July 1997, after he and several other players spoke on the telephone to Arrojo, the pitcher who had fled Cuba in 1996.
"He had no other way out," said his father, Juan Antonio Toca Garcia, a 56-year-old dental technician. "His life and his only job was to play baseball."
Toca's parents say he calls every week and sends money. But they say the financial assistance is secondary to his athletic success. They feel an injustice was done to him here.
"He doesn't even have to send anything home," Toca's father said. "As long as he triumphs. That's enough. That's enough joy for us."
Many in Orlando Hernandez's family feel the same way. The pitcher was suspended from Cuban baseball in 1996, after the Government accused him of plotting to defect, as his half brother, Livan, had in 1996.
Hernandez, who had regularly pitched for thousands of Havana fans, found himself relegated to working as a physical therapist in a psychiatric hospital for $8 a month. Now, since his defection, his relatives in his old Havana neighborhood say he has continued to help them in large and small ways, with even distant cousins receiving autographed pictures. He sends money to his father, his former brother-in-law, his nieces, his aunts.
Hernandez's maternal grandmother, Maria Julia Pedrozo, said she recognized that she will probably never see her grandson again, but she is still proud he left. "He had to leave," she said. "There was no other remedy. He was shut down completely and for this he left."
However envious, even some younger family members of ballplayers who have made it in America are desperately grateful. For instance, Miguel Colina, who said he makes less than $20 a month delivering bread on a bicycle, respects his brother, the first baseman in the Tampa Bay organization. The $300 a month his brother sends is just enough to keep the extended clan fed and clothed.
"Economically everyone here is in flames," Miguel Colina said, with a tinge of bitterness. "I feel good because I know that at least someone escaped from here and he's got a secure future."
 
After the Defection, A Creeping Estrangement
 There is pain, though, for others left behind, including some who helped the players escape. For the understandings some players reached with their families before they left have later been ignored.
Fiallo said it was she who first urged a frustrated Ordonez to leave the island. Though an enormously talented fielder, Ordonez feared he would never surpass German Mesa, the top shortstop in Cuba, she said. Every year Mesa started ahead of Ordonez on the Havana Industriales.
"I was the one who encouraged him to do it," said Fiallo, who met Ordonez in 1991 and married him a year later. "He could never have done it alone. He is the most timid there is. The day he left here he told me that he wasn't sure he had the courage to do it."
When Ordonez was chosen in April 1993 for a spot on the national team going to play in a tournament in Buffalo, the couple began plotting his defection, Fiallo said. She wrote her father in Miami, Arnaldo Fiallo, who had left Cuba in the early 1980's, and laid out careful instructions to pick up her husband, Fiallo said.
Because the Government can deny exit visas to the families of people who leave illegally, Fiallo said they decided to get divorced. It was supposed to be only a paper divorce, she said. They intended to reunite as soon as Ordonez found work.
Four months later, Ordonez walked away from his team's lodgings in Buffalo and climbed into a car driven by Lazaro Megret, a radio executive from Miami who was also a friend of his father-in-law's family.
"There is no food for my son to eat in Cuba," Ordonez told a reporter from The New York Times shortly after his defection. "I felt making $118 a month, which I get playing baseball, there was little I could do. I can do more for them by being here."
Ordonez was eventually drafted and signed by the Mets, and he has earned hundreds of thousands of dollars over the last several years.
Fiallo said she and Ordonez talked on the telephone over the next year, planning their future, but she was repeatedly denied official permission to leave. Distance and time took their toll on the relationship, she said. In December 1994, she learned Ordonez had remarried.
Fiallo said she has not spoken to or heard from Ordonez since that day.
Ordonez declined two requests to be interviewed for this article.
"You can write what you want in your newspaper," he said earlier this month in Miami. "I'm not going to talk about my family."
His former wife says Ordonez has done virtually nothing for his son -- no money, no gifts, no mementos, not even a letter, she said. Once, two years ago, Ordonez called the boy on the telephone.
"For him, it's as if the people here don't exist," she said.
The departure of Toca, now with the Binghamton Mets, also left behind some wreckage. Barbara Jackeline Alvarez, 29, says she lived with Toca for five years and bore his son in 1996. She says she agreed to allow him to marry a Japanese woman, Miyo Yamasaki, so that he could get a visa to leave Cuba. Now, unemployed and alone with her son, she feels betrayed.
Toca met Yamasaki in 1995 during a tournament in Japan and married her in Havana two years later while still involved with Alvarez, family members said. When he defected, Yamasaki picked Toca up in the Bahamas and because of the marriage he eventually was granted asylum in Japan. He later moved to America and signed with the Mets.
Alvarez said Toca told her the marriage to Yamasaki was merely a legal tactic to gain residency in Japan, and indeed Toca and his Japanese wife were divorced shortly after their arrival in Japan. Toca's mother called the marriage one of "convenience."
Dependent on relatives, Alvarez said Toca appears to have forgotten his son. "He doesn't call the boy or anything," she said. "If he has sent anything to us, then I don't know about it."
"He told me he had to do it for himself and for the well-being of us," Alvarez said. "I feel tricked."
In an interview, Toca said he had sent money for his son, but said he had given it to his parents because he mistrusts Alvarez. He said their relationship had died long ago. He also denied his marriage to Yamasaki had been a ruse. "We had problems," he said of the divorce.
Toca, 28, said he aches to bring his son to America. "I don't have anything I love more in the world," he said.
 
A Cover of Secrecy On Methods Used
 Almost all of the families left behind are forced to confront the idea of how they, too, might get to America. Many players have repeatedly petitioned the Cuban authorities to release their families. They have rarely prevailed.
And traveling with smugglers can be risky. If they make it to United States soil, Cubans can apply for political asylum, but those who are caught at sea or wind up in nations like the Bahamas can be returned.
As a result, the efforts to smuggle relatives out of Cuba are often shrouded in secrecy. Most players whose families have made it to America have denied they knew about or had a hand in the plans.
For instance, the wife and two sons of Rolando Arrojo, the Tampa Bay right-hander, joined him two months after his 1996 defection, but the details of their flight by sea have remained closely guarded.
Silence is the rule among relatives of defectors in Cuba, as well. The secrecy is understandable.
Orlando Chinea, a 42-year-old pitching coach, was among the four players who, along with Toca, boarded a 16-foot boat and made the run northward across the Straits of Florida 13 months ago.
After a day at sea, the players were picked up by a Bahamian fishing boat, but only Toca was ultimately allowed to stay abroad because of his Japanese wife. Chinea and the others -- Angel Lopez, Jorge Diaz and Maykel Jova -- were returned to Cuba.
Since then, Chinea says life has become intolerable. His house is kept under surveillance, he said. He has been banned from working as a coach.
"My future is very uncertain," he said. "I cannot even be sure of my life here."
But for Colina, the 28-year-old first baseman, life in America for the moment is blessed because he has been joined by his wife and daughter. Colina defected one night in November 1996, along with Jesus Ametller and William Ortega of the Havana Industriales, during a baseball tournament in Chiapas, Mexico. Saying they were taking a walk, they met up with Joe Cubas, a Miami agent who specializes in helping Cuban athletes defect, in a nearby cemetery.
After six months in Costa Rica, all three signed minor league contracts with American teams.
Then Colina's family had to execute its own escape. Dianelis Colina, 30, said she tried unsuccessfully for nearly two years to persuade the Cuban immigration authorities to let her rejoin her husband.
"They made our lives impossible," Dianelis Colina, who worked as a basketball instructor here, said of the Government. "As far as legal means, he did everything he could."
The conflicting versions of what happened next, offered by those in America and those in Cuba, reflect the persistent fear of retaliation. Roberto Colina's relatives in Cuba maintain he hired a speedboat in Miami to pick up his family and whisk it directly to Tampa, paying $9,000 for each passenger.
But Dianelis Colina maintains that she and the wives of Ametller and Ortega did it on their own. Using money saved from their husband's remittances, the women hired a smuggler in Havana and paid him $385 per person to take them to Florida in a rickety boat, she said.
Colina also said he knew nothing of his wife's plan until she arrived in the United States, and that he had battled despair with the consolation that he at least could send money. "I still don't know how my wife arranged things," he said.
Believing that their telephones were tapped, the women spoke about their plans in code, pretending to plan a "birthday party" and referring to the boat as a cake, she said.
Colina said she told her relatives the story about a speedboat coming from Florida to allay their fears. When the escape ultimately took place, she said, there were 15 people crammed in the boat. The engine gave out twice during the night, and in the enormous quiet of the warm sea, Dianelis Colina thought they might not make it.
"It was very hard," she said, her voice catching.
Fourteen hours later, they arrived in the Florida Keys and waded ashore. Dirty and tired, they hid in some bushes by the roadside until a relative arrived with a car that evening.
Colina, when he saw his daughter at a relative's house in Miami later that night, fell to his knees.
"It was an immense joy," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 6-year-old son of the Mets' Rey Ordonez in Havana. The boy was an infant when his father left in 1993. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Although the Cuban Government acts as if defecting baseball players have ceased to exist, they are considered folk heroes to many on the streets, where the game is a passion. Children organizing a game in a park in Remedios, where Jorge Luis Toca developed the skills that led him to a contract with the New York Mets after he defected last year. To help make ends meet in Havana, the Colina family -- Miguel, Miriam, Rene and Daisy -- gets $300 a month from Roberto, who is in the Tampa Bay organization. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES BASEBALL (92%); FAMILY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ATHLETES (73%); REFUGEES (67%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR REYNALDO ORDONEZ FIALLO (90%); ORLANDO HERNANDEZ (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



552 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Sold Into Freedom
As evidence has emerged of slavery in Sudan, some groups are redeeming slaves while others say this makes the situation worse. Page 10.
 
Sound Bites Over Jerusalem
American campaign consultants have brought their hard-nosed tactics to Israel's elections, with Mideast peace and the struggle between secular and religious Jews hanging in the balance. MAGAZINE 

Where Are They Now?
Displaced Kosovars evoke comparisons to the plight of the Palestinians and the problems of permanent refugees. WEEK IN REVIEW
 
The Unknown Index Giant
It manages more money than Merrill Lynch and charges lower fees on its index funds than the Vanguard Group. And soon, Barclays Global Investors may want you to know it. MONEY & BUSINESS
 
The New Rulers
The global economy takes power from governments and gives it to customers, Thomas L. Friedman says in "The Lexus and the Olive Tree." BOOK REVIEW
 
San Francisco and Vicinity
In Yerba Buena Gardens, a rooftop full of delights for children; in Japantown, homemade noodles and community pride; and across the bay, another Chinatown. TRAVEL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SUDAN (92%); KOSOVO (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (57%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SUDAN (92%); KOSOVO (90%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SLAVERY (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); RELIGION (87%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); INDEX FUNDS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (51%); 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



553 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bishops Urge Rich Nations to Grant Debt Relief to Poorest

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

 BODY:
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops have called on the United States Government, other wealthy governments and international lending agencies to grant debt relief to the world's poorest nations, so those nations can spend more of their resources on their citizens, rather than on repaying loans.
In the 19-page statement, released on Friday, the bishops link their call to the approach of the year 2000, which a growing number of religious leaders, including Pope John Paul II, as well as some secular organizations, have said ought to be the occasion of a "jubilee," a concept envisioned in the Book of Leviticus as a time of financial relief for the poor. 
 "In Hebrew Scriptures, the jubilee was to be a time to free slaves, to return land to its rightful owners, and to forgive debts," says the statement, "A Jubilee Call to Debt Forgiveness."
It was issued by the United States Catholic Conference's Administrative Board, which speaks for the bishops outside their twice-a-year meetings. In the statement, the bishops said they began from the presumption that countries, like individuals, had an obligation to repay their debts. But, the bishops added, that condition may not apply in some circumstances.
"One such instance," the statement said, "is when a country cannot repay its debt without critical reductions in spending for health, education, food, housing and other basic needs, and when the debt has become a serious obstacle to development."
A similar call for debt relief was issued last December by the World Council of Churches, which represents 339 Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches, at a meeting of the council's policy-making Assembly in Harare, Zimbabwe.
But the bishops' statement grew out of a conference on poor nations' indebtedness, sponsored last October by the Catholic Conference, at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J. The conference was attended by James Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, and Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, along with Catholic officials from the Vatican and other nations.
One participant, Archbishop Medardo Mazombwe of Zambia, said his nation's debt was such that "every man, woman and child owes $750," a crushing burden that had led to a lack of spending on education, health care, housing and other necessities. The Archbishop is quoted in the bishops' statement, as is the Pope, who recently called for "reducing substantially, if not canceling outright," poor nations' debts.
Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark, who helped arrange the Seton Hall meeting and has been an outspoken proponent of debt relief, said the bishops' statement was meant to "create some moral ground" from which possible solutions could be devised.
Archbishop McCarrick said the bishops were particularly interested in drawing attention to the issue as the millennial year approached.
"A jubilee means something to the Judeo-Christian ethic," he said. "We can't let a moment like this in the history of our world, in the calendar of our time, go without bringing the attention of the world to one of the great tragedies."
The bishops' statement said the United States, as a major creditor nation, "has a special responsibility" to help find solutions to poor countries' debt crises.
But the statement also placed responsibility on debtor nations, saying that the debt relief must include "accountability" on the part of those countries. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); UNITED STATES CATHOLIC CONFERENCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (93%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MILLENNIUM (71%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); 

PERSON: POPE JOHN PAUL II (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



554 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE ABSENTEES;
Russia, the Nation That Isn't There, Looms Larger for Allies at the Summit

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
President Clinton demonstrated today just how delicate American and Russian relations are: He encouraged Russia to act as a mediator in the Kosovo conflict, even as he backed NATO's determination to choke off oil supplies to Yugoslavia -- a move that could stoke a confrontation with Russia.
Russia has been absent from the NATO summit meeting here, boycotting the gathering because it profoundly objects to the NATO bombing of its Slavic cousins in Serbia. But the allies are turning to Russia to help broker a peace with the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, and would welcome the contribution of Russian troops to any international security force that might move in to protect Kosovo Albanians. 
 Mr. Clinton said at a news conference today that while Russia's first attempt this week to negotiate a peace fell short, "nevertheless we welcome Russia's efforts and hope they will continue and ultimately result in Serb agreement to our conditions."
NATO is keeping its lines of communication with Russia open. Lloyd Axworthy, the Canadian Foreign Minister, plans to travel to Moscow on Monday or Tuesday as a go-between between the allies and Russia. "Obviously we want Russia to be part of the solution," Art Eggleton, the Canadian Defense Minister, told reporters.
But Mr. Clinton also said NATO was bent on blocking shipments of oil, which comes primarily from Russia, from reaching Yugoslavia.
"If we want this campaign to succeed with economic and political pressure and with the air action, then we have to take every reasonable means to give it a chance to succeed," the President said. "And that's what we intend to do."
The Clinton Administration spent the last month encouraging Russia to come to the summit meeting, but officials said privately today that perhaps it was just as well that Russia refused.
There was some talk Friday that President Boris N. Yeltsin's special envoy to Belgrade, former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, might show up here after his nine hours of talks with Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade. But with Mr. Milosevic failing to agree to NATO demands, there was no move for a visit.
At this point, NATO officials did not want Mr. Chernomyrdin to come, fearing that a hint of compromise by Mr. Milosevic could undermine NATO's resolve, reiterated here today, to continue the bombing. "The next time he gets in touch," Jamie Shea, the NATO spokesman, said of Mr. Chernomyrdin, "it must be a much more substantial offer."
Officials here and in Moscow described relations between Russia and the alliance as "frozen," a term deliberately chosen for its evocation of the cold war.
Mr. Yeltsin has said Russia has no intention of being drawn into the Kosovo conflict, but it has not condemned Mr. Milosevic's campaign of ejecting Kosovo Albanians. Russia was the only nation to vote in Geneva on Friday against a United Nations resolution condemning "horrendous and ongoing war crimes" against Albanians by Serbian forces in Kosovo. Negotiations between the United States and Russia over the reduction in long-range nuclear missiles have long been stalled.
"It will take some time to unfreeze what has been frozen," an Administration official said.
But he added: "The institutional relationship and the political relationship that Russia has developed with NATO since the end of the cold war is in the interest of both parties, and we believe it should be nourished and continued. Hopefully this is a temporary situation."
Russians can hardly forget, though, that the alliance was built to protect the West from their Soviet-era armed forces. And the recent expansion of the alliance -- to include three former Soviet allies -- has infuriated Russia.
Helmut Sonnenfeldt, an analyst at the Brookings Institution, said of the Russians, "They are angry, and all their grievances and their sense of humiliation are being acted out in this rather vituperative public rhetoric and military threats."
At the same time, the Administration halted an effort at negotiation by a Republican Congressman with longstanding ties to Russia. The Congressman, Curt Weldon of Pennsylvania, was contacted two weeks ago by Vladimir Ryzhkov, Deputy Speaker of the Russian Parliament, and the two were laying the groundwork for a joint mission to Belgrade to meet with Mr. Milosevic on Monday.
But Mr. Weldon said he dropped the idea after meeting for 90 minutes Thursday with Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, who Mr. Weldon said expressed concern that Mr. Milosevic would seek to manipulate their visit for propaganda value. "This was a good faith effort on the part of Russia, and this Administration blew it," Mr. Weldon said.
An Administration official acknowledged that the White House opposed any diplomatic efforts by members of Congress during the air war, especially now.
"Given the nature of the summit this weekend, this was not the right time for this type of mission," he said. "We prefer to continue to intensify the air campaign."" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); BOYCOTTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



555 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Gay Man Charged in a Killing Can Use a 'Battered Wife' Defense

BYLINE: By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN 

 BODY:
John Stagno was a controlling and jealous boyfriend who threatened his live-in partner with a knife and a bottle, and kept the only key to their Crown Heights apartment, a lawyer contends in papers filed in Brooklyn Supreme Court.
So when Mr. Stagno, 32, brandished a bottle in December 1997 and his partner fought back, stabbing him to death, it seemed like a classic case of "battered wife syndrome," the partner's lawyer has argued. Except that the partner, John Pickett, 33, is a man. 
 On Friday, in a ruling that lawyers say is unprecedented, a Brooklyn Justice, John M. Leventhal, said Mr. Pickett could use the battered wife argument to bolster his claim that he killed Mr. Stagno in self-defense. Prosecutors, who have charged him with second-degree murder, had opposed the battered wife claim.
In the early 90's, the battered wife argument was used in a Florida case involving two lesbians, Mr. Pickett's lawyer, Arthur Aidala, said. But he said he knew of no case involving two men in which the defense had been used.
Mr. Aidala said that Mr. Pickett suffered from low self-esteem and emotional dependency, classic elements of battered wife syndrome. "He was trying to muster up the strength and energy to leave," Mr. Aidala said. "But where does a gay, black, H.I.V.-positive man turn for help?"
When Mr. Pickett first moved in with Mr. Stagno in early 1997, Mr. Aidala said, his client had a job at Kmart. But he said that Mr. Stagno, who was unemployed, controlled the couple's finances and gave Mr. Pickett a daily allowance of 50 cents.
After Mr. Stagno, in a jealous rage, attacked a male Kmart employee with whom Mr. Pickett spoke, Mr. Pickett was fired. As his dependency and isolation deepened, apparently the abuse escalated. In August 1997, Mr. Stagno slashed Mr. Pickett's hand with a knife during a fight. And though Mr. Pickett called the police, officers played down the incident and arrested both men, said Mr. Aidala.
In an effort to end the relationship, Mr. Pickett approached the Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project and met with a counselor there, Mr. Aidala said.
But on Dec. 5, after Mr. Pickett announced that he was leaving, Mr. Stagno threatened him with a bottle and a knife, Mr. Aidala said. Mr. Pickett then stabbed Mr. Stagno twice in the chest, killing him.
Mr. Pickett is being held at the Rikers Island Detention Center. Jury selection is expected to begin tomorrow. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN SUPREME COURT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN SUPREME COURT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; HOMOSEXUALITY; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); BATTERED PERSON DEFENSE (90%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); MURDER (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); JURY DUTY (72%); SELF DEFENSE (71%); 

PERSON: FINKELSTEIN, KATHERINE E; LEVENTHAL, JOHN M (JUSTICE); STAGNO, JOHN; PICKETT, JOHN JOHN PICKETT (96%); JOHN STAGNO (95%); ARTHUR AIDALA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



556 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK;
Nations Not Yet in NATO Preen in Hope

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
The Embassy of Bulgaria, five diplomats strong, was humming with hope. The second secretary, a world-class linguist and stateswoman, was dashing about, even making coffee for any visitor who asked.
In similar spirit, Bulgaria's handsomely uniformed military attache would operate the fax when need be this weekend as the NATO summit meeting took over the city -- a dizzying event for the warrens of resident diplomats. They occupy the capital like rows of shopkeepers in the burnished walkups and mansions of statecraft set back from the flowering trees of springtime. 
 And out beyond the iron doors of the Bulgarian Embassy, the Ambassador, Filip Dimitrov, has been without an embassy driver lately but hardly at a loss as he drives himself about to campaign for Bulgaria to be in the next wave of NATO inductees.
Mr. Dimitrov, a former Prime Minister in Bulgaria's flirtation with democratic government nine years ago, is back as his nation's salesman for its case to join NATO.
"You try to see as many people as you can and try bring home the message," Mr. Dimitrov said of his pitch for admittance during the larger NATO anniversary celebration.
"If we don't -- what's the proper word? -- mess it up ourselves we'll naturally, soon, in due time, however you call it, be members of NATO," he declared at another point..
For all the sad preoccupation with Kosovo and NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia, the summit meeting is laced with a certain sweet yearning from the next wave of applicants for NATO. These nations desperately want admission to aid their climb through post-Soviet democratic recovery and economic reform.
On the cusp of the summit meeting, a half-dozen aspirants are vying like long-distance runners dreaming of victory as they jostle toward the starting line. Indeed, Prime Ministers Janez Drnovsek of Slovenia and Mikulas Dzurinda of Slovakia jogged together this morning to symbolize their rivalry.
The competition was "advanced" by hired media specialists who, with some justification, are treating the NATO gathering like the latest slice of political Americana -- a convention that lacks balloons but not a horde of back-slapping candidates.
The Government of Bulgaria has hired BSMG Worldwide, a public affairs company, and a lobbying specialist, Jefferson Waterman International, for stratagems on approaching NATO. "I think they're very well positioned," said Jim Mezzaros, BSMG's principal executive, who busily advised the Bulgarians on navigating global lobbying waters.
But Mr. Dimitrov seems at least as good a strategist in the cause. He is an eloquent, bearded lawyer who ignored politics during the Communist decades but caught his nation's eye as the author of a best-selling book, a rewriting of the Arthurian legend seen as a subtle and inspiring parable on the need for political justice.
"What we're trying to achieve now is not just a safe Bulgaria, a safe home," he said, noting that the nation has enjoyed four peaceful elections since the fall of Communism and that its economy is Western-oriented, growing 4.5 percent last year. "Now we want a safe neighborhood," he said, polishing his nation's credentials for regional stability. He noted that Bulgaria was tending to Kosovo refugees at the Macedonian border and absorbing without complaint the economic disruption of the NATO bombings.
Mr. Dimitrov has an important dispatch from home in his pocket, a fresh ruling by Bulgaria's constitutional court that it would be legal for NATO to use the nation's airspace to defend the Kosovo Albanians. It is a troth of sorts, an important credential for the Ambassador.
"Our day is Sunday," Mr. Dimitrov declared happily of NATO's special agenda meetings with neighboring states and NATO applicants. His visiting colleagues from Sofia, President Petar Stoyanov and Foreign Minister Nadezhda Mihailova, will be more than ready for the occasion, the Bulgarian Ambassador promises.
"On Sunday, the agenda brings the representatives of the aspiring nations into the room," exulted Mr. Dimitrov, sounding as if he would be among the first through the door. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (51%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: BULGARIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERSON WATERMAN INTERNATIONAL LLC (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BULGARIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LINGUISTICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); ATHLETES (62%); WRITERS (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%); RUNNING (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



557 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3571 words

HEADLINE: THE WRONG MAN: A special report.;
Innocent Suspect Was Held in Officer's Death Despite Signs of Error

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER with ALAN FEUER 

DATELINE: ORANGE, N.J., April 24

 BODY:
By late in the morning of April 10, several hours after heavily armed, masked state troopers broke down the door of a house near here and arrested Terrance Everett in the murder of an Orange police officer, seasoned investigators in the office of the Essex County Prosecutor were certain that Mr. Everett was innocent.
According to a high-ranking law enforcement official, they told the office's second-in-command, First Assistant Prosecutor Patrick Toscano, that Mr. Everett had just given a convincing account of his whereabouts on the night of the murder -- from the two bacon cheeseburgers with no tomatoes that he had eaten at a fast-food restaurant to the bank machine where he had withdrawn cash -- and had even passed two polygraph tests. 
 Convinced, Mr. Toscano urged his boss, Prosecutor Patricia A. Hurt, to let Mr. Everett go free.
But Ms. Hurt overruled Mr. Toscano and others who made the same recommendation, at one point even pounding a table with her fists, according to a county official who was told of the incident. After all, four eyewitnesses had independently identified Mr. Everett from an array of police mug shots. And that night, she announced Mr. Everett's arrest in time for the news to make the Sunday papers.
Mr. Everett was not released for six more days.
Now, more than two weeks after the April 8 death of Officer Joyce Anne Carnegie, Ms. Hurt maintains that the real killer is behind bars and that she and her subordinates handled the case well. "Over all, I think that this office did a good job," she said at a news conference last Monday.
Yet details of their joint investigation, gleaned from interviews with police officers, prosecutors, witnesses and others -- most of whom were under strict orders not to discuss the case and insisted that their names not be published -- suggest that the inquiry was the antithesis of a textbook case.
The most glaring lapse, according to those interviewed, seems to be the failure to interview a key alibi witness for Mr. Everett. Although Mr. Everett told investigators that he was eating at a nearby Wendy's when Officer Carnegie was killed, detectives did not interview the restaurant manager until after his account appeared in a newspaper -- six days later.
In addition, the man now accused of killing Officer Carnegie, Condell B. Woodson, was not arrested until April 17, two days after detectives flew to Georgia. The detectives found the person from whom Mr. Woodson is believed to have bought the 9-millimeter pistol that prosecutors contend is the murder weapon.
But as early as the night of April 9, even before Mr. Everett was arrested, Federal agents told Orange and Essex County investigators that they had traced the gun to Georgia. Neither Ms. Hurt nor the Orange Police Director, Richard Conte, has explained why it took nearly a week to make the trip south.
In the meantime, two other men were swept off the streets in the investigation into Officer Carnegie's murder. One, Earl Faison, died in police custody an hour after being pulled out of a taxicab. His family claims he was beaten by officers.
The investigation has put the Essex Prosecutor's office and the Orange police on the defensive. The New Jersey Attorney General and the United States Attorney in Newark have opened separate inquiries into the death of Mr. Faison and the treatment of Mr. Everett. Mr. Everett says the police beat him during his arrest, and two days later he appeared at his arraignment with a black eye, a bruised cheek and a bewildered expression. On Thursday, Federal agents removed documents from the Orange police station under a subpoena. Mr. Everett's and Mr. Faison's families are considering civil rights lawsuits.
Ms. Hurt's image within law enforcement circles was damaged even further when it became known that Mr. Toscano, her second-in-command, had resigned in protest within hours after pushing her to release Mr. Everett. Mr. Toscano has repeatedly declined to comment.
Perhaps the most harmful result of the problems with the murder investigation could materialize later, when the case against Mr. Woodson winds up in court. Law enforcement officials here and in surrounding jurisdictions are speculating privately that a skilled defense lawyer could make much of the three earlier arrests.
If Mr. Woodson indeed confessed to the killing, as has been reported, "it saves them," said one veteran investigator, referring to the Essex Prosecutor's office. "But even then, he could argue that he was scared he'd die, like Faison."
Ms. Hurt, a Republican who was appointed by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman in 1997, has refused repeated requests for an interview since Monday, when she defended her handling of the investigation at a news conference after Mr. Woodson's arraignment. At the time, she denied there had been deep divisions among her staff.
On Friday, her spokesman, Ray Weiss, reiterated that Ms. Hurt "believes it would be inappropriate for her to make any comments while this is still an ongoing homicide investigation." He called back later to add that Ms. Hurt "cannot comment about the Everett case, because the Attorney General's office is in charge."
Mr. Conte, the Orange Police Director, conceded in an interview this week that "mistakes were made," and vowed, "When the dust settles, we will learn from this." But he declined to say what the mistakes had been and refused to answer many questions about the case.
 
The Investigation
Slaying Sets Off Chaotic Manhunt
The call came over the police radio around 8:15 P.M.: two armed robberies on the south side of town. Be on the lookout for a bald black man with a stocky build wearing a leather jacket.
Half a mile north of the robbery scene, three Orange police officers, each assigned to patrol a different sector of this 2.2-square-mile working-class town, were taking a break, chatting by their cars in a parking lot near the train station. Hearing the radio call, they headed for the scene, at the corner of Carteret and Clarendon. Two officers drove off in one direction. But Officer Joyce Carnegie's car was pointing the other way.
Officer Carnegie made the first right turn onto Day Street, heading south. Almost immediately, she spotted someone and called in to double-check the description of the robbery suspect.
She never asked for backup, and no one heard from her again.
Less than 15 minutes later, Carlos Gonzalez, a former Orange police officer driving home from work in Brooklyn, saw Officer Carnegie's patrol car stopped on the sidewalk, partly blocking northbound traffic on Day Street, its lights flashing, the driver's door open. Mr. Gonzalez, now an agent of the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, pulled over and found Officer Carnegie lying face up near the door.
She was mortally wounded, shot in the abdomen and the back of the head. Her weapon had never left its holster.
Mr. Gonzalez flagged down a passing ambulance, which took Officer Carnegie to the trauma center at University Hospital in Newark. But doctors could not save her.
At 8:40 P.M., the Orange police dispatcher reported an officer down at Day Street and Freeway Drive West. Mr. Conte, the Police Director and a 27-year veteran of the department, was called at home and told that, for the first time in more than 30 years, a member of the department had been gunned down. As friends and relatives of Officer Carnegie headed for the hospital, the search began for her killer.
Into the night and throughout the next day, scores of police officers on foot and in squad cars pressed a chaotic manhunt. The normal weekday calm was shattered every few minutes by the sounds of blaring sirens and screeching tires. At one point near the scene of the shooting, an unmarked cruiser burst airborne from a parking lot, spun wildly on the rain-slicked asphalt and sped away.
Still, investigators from the Orange force and from the Essex Prosecutor's office, which handles most homicide cases in the county outside Newark, had plenty to go on.
They had the accounts of three witnesses to the robberies, which investigators believe were committed by the killer. And they soon found a witness to the shooting itself. That person told officers that the gunman had run along Freeway Drive, the service road to Interstate 280, toward a public housing complex on the other side of the interstate, according to a homicide investigator.
Within hours, the investigator said, the police had canvassed the grounds of the housing project and found a 9-millimeter handgun in a patch of grass. The gun was given to agents of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms for examination.
Joseph Green, a spokesman for the bureau, said that by the next evening, agents had traced the weapon to the Barrow Gun Shop in Butler, Ga. A licensed gun dealer there had sold it in 1993 to a Butler resident, Mr. Green said. The bureau immediately gave that information to the Essex County prosecutors, Mr. Green said.
An employee of the store said that she received a few calls from officers identifying themselves as agents of the bureau over the next several days. But no one visited the shop until New Jersey investigators and Federal agents arrived on April 15, a week after the shooting, she said. They removed records about the 1993 gun sale and left, she said.
Mr. Green said that bureau agents spent the days in between trying to locate the buyer, whose name has never been released. The buyer was interviewed by two Federal agents and New Jersey investigators on April 15, he said. The buyer, investigators say, led them to Condell Woodson, an Orange native who once lived in Georgia. He was arrested in Newark two days later.
 
The First Arrest
Ex-Suspect Says Police Beat Him
On Friday morning, April 9, the day after Joyce Carnegie was killed, Terrance Everett, a warehouse clerk for a computer repair company, was eating breakfast with his wife, son and mother in the kitchen of their home in East Orange. The television was on, and the morning news carried the report of the Thursday night murder in Orange.
When it was over, Mr. Everett said in an interview this week, he shook his head. "Whenever they find him," he said to his family, "they're going to whup him."
Before dawn the next day, Mr. Everett was asleep in the third-floor bedroom he shared with his wife, Ebony, who is 6 1/2 months pregnant. Sometime after 5 A.M., Mrs. Everett was startled awake by a loud bang. "I thought the boiler was exploding," she said.
But when Mrs. Everett opened the door to the hallway, she met eyes with a masked man holding an automatic rifle. A haze of smoke was filtering through the house. Other armed men downstairs, later identified as members of the entry team of the New Jersey State Police, were yelling, "Where is Terrance Everett?" she said.
Mrs. Everett, wearing only a nightshirt, was led down to the second floor of the house and pushed to the floor, she said. Her hands were strapped together behind her back.
Mr. Everett, who had taken the time to put on a T-shirt, followed his wife into the hallway and was ordered to freeze. He said he was thrown to the floor, cuffed, then pulled down to the second floor and thrown to the floor again, face down. One officer stood on Mr. Everett's back; others kicked, spit on and cursed him, he said. Another blew his nose on him.
Pinned down, face to the floor, he peered past the officers who crowded the room and saw his son, Terrance Jr., 5, staring back. "He was sitting there on his bed, with his mouth hanging open," Mr. Everett said. "He just had this blank look on his face."
Mr. Everett said he asked what he was being arrested for, but no one answered him. "They took me downstairs and flung me into the kitchen," he said. "I fell into the table. One cop picked me up, then another threw the table out of the way and threw me into the stove. I bumped into a cabinet, and he tore the door off the cabinet."
To walk Mr. Everett outside to a waiting van, officers needed the key to unlock the wrought-iron fence that surrounds the front yard. Mr. Everett said he asked if he could turn around to show the officer the right key. Then, he said, another officer slammed him in the face with the butt of his gun, saying, "Nobody told you to turn around."
Wearing only the T-shirt and a pair of blue pinstriped boxer shorts -- the first gift his wife had ever given him -- Mr. Everett was taken outside into the cold light of morning. "There was a sea of officers," he said, "clapping and applauding."
Only after the police van arrived at the Essex County Prosecutor's office in Newark a few minutes later, Mr. Everett said, did he learn that he had been arrested as a suspect in the killing of the Orange police officer.
For several hours, he said, interrogators came and went, leaving him alone for long stretches in an interview room. Over and over, he described where he had been on the night of April 8. He was read his rights, he said. "But every time I asked for a lawyer, they'd say, 'If you're innocent, you don't need one,' get up, and walk out of the room."
Investigators asked Mr. Everett to take a polygraph test. "I knew I was telling the truth, but I figured the fact that I was nervous could make me fail," he said. Still, he agreed, and by 10 A.M., he had taken the polygraph twice, answering the same questions.
He was not told how he had done until about 3 P.M., he said. "They were having lunch," he said of the investigators. "They told me I'd failed the polygraph." In fact, he had passed both times.
In truth, Mr. Everett had an easy enough time recalling the details of his Thursday night. He got off work at 6 and picked up his wife an hour later at home. The two, who were married last October and share a bedroom in the home of Mr. Everett's mother in East Orange, drove off to look at an apartment in nearby Irvington, but they did not like the area.
Back at the house, Mr. Everett ran in for a quick shower and change of clothes. Then the couple went to the Wendy's on Main Street for dinner.
Mr. Everett ordered two junior bacon cheeseburgers with no tomatoes. His wife, eating for two, ordered two junior bacon cheeseburgers with mayonnaise and onions only. They had fries and a Frosty, too. Then Mr. Everett went back to the counter for a fruit punch. While they ate, Mr. Everett noticed an East Orange police officer enter the restaurant and order a meal.
Around 9 P.M., the couple left for Eagle Rock Reservation, a park in West Orange. They walked around for a while, talking and playing, Mr. Everett touching his wife's belly to feel the kicking of the baby girl they are expecting in July.
From there, he said, they stopped at a cash machine, then headed home, stopping on the way at a gas station in East Orange that is a hangout for that city's police officers. Mrs. Everett's father is a member of the force.
Inside the interrogation room, investigators resumed questioning Mr. Everett about 3 P.M., he said. By then, the Essex County Prosecutor's office had been riven by an explosive debate about his guilt or innocence.
His arrest had been a good one, investigators said. He was a bald black man who fit the general description of the robber and gunman. Witnesses identified his photograph the day after the shooting. And he was a paroled felon who had served three years in prison for a robbery conviction.
But several investigators felt that his alibi was too thorough, too calmly delivered, too easily verifiable, law enforcement officials said. And he had passed the polygraphs. Experienced investigators grudgingly concluded that they had the wrong man.
Mr. Toscano and others argued to free him, officials said. But Ms. Hurt angrily refused. At 2 P.M., Mr. Toscano resigned, a decision not made public for four days. That night, Ms. Hurt announced that Mr. Everett had been charged with murder, criminal possession of a weapon and robbery.
 
A Puzzle
With Man in Jail, Search Continues
Ms. Hurt said later that the investigation of Officer Carnegie's murder had by that time become "two-pronged" -- with officers examining Mr. Everett's alibi while continuing to follow other leads and evidence.
But the next day, a Sunday, that two-pronged approach produced the odd scene of officers scouring the streets of Orange, carrying the composite sketch of a killer who their superiors were saying was already in jail on murder charges.
In fact, that night, the police arrested two more suspects. James Coker, an unemployed man with a record of at least two convictions on drug charges, was at his aunt's apartment in Newark when police officers broke through her front door around 6 P.M. The police say that officers saw him try to swallow a bit of crack cocaine as they burst in.
Investigators said they tracked down Mr. Coker, who also fits the general description of Officer Carnegie's killer, after he bragged to others that he had killed a police officer and got away with it.
In an interview in the Essex County Jail on Thursday, Mr. Coker, 30, said he had no part in the shooting. He said he volunteered to take a polygraph test, but none was given to him. He remains in custody on charges of drug possession, attempting to destroy evidence and other outstanding charges, his lawyer, Albert Kapin, said.
Later that night, sometime after 10, a police officer ordered Earl Faison to get out of a green taxicab near his girlfriend's apartment on the south side of Interstate 280, two blocks from the scene of Officer Carnegie's murder. He was on his way to his aunt's house in Newark, his relatives said.
But because officials have provided so little information about the case, it is still unclear why the cab was stopped. But at her news conference on Monday, Ms. Hurt said that Mr. Faison, an aspiring rap performer who happened to be bald, was picked up because he, too, fit the killer's description.
When approached by the police, he ran, the authorities said. He was caught after a three-block chase, carrying a gun, and was arrested after a struggle. According to an account in The Star-Ledger of Newark, he was subdued with pepper spray.
An hour later, he was dead.
According to the County Prosecutor's office, Mr. Faison collapsed and died as he walked into the Orange police station. One law enforcement official said that Mr. Faison, who was carrying an inhaler at the time, had suffered an asthma attack, which can be fatal if left untreated. While a preliminary autopsy report ruled out blunt force, the cause of his death is still undetermined.
But Mr. Faison's father, Earl Williams, believes that the police killed his son and has hired a private pathologist for an independent autopsy. He said he was shown a picture of the corpse at the county morgue on April 12. There were many cuts and bruises on his son's face, which was so swollen it looked as if "he was dragged by a truck," Mr. Williams said. "From the moment I saw the pictures, I knew he had been beaten to death."
 
The Alibi
Delays in Checking A Convincing Account
Richard Fajimolu, the assistant manager on duty at Wendy's the night of the murder, clearly remembers Mr. and Mrs. Everett from the night of Officer Carnegie's shooting.
They came in around 8:30 and sat at a table against the windows for at least a half hour, under a display showing a crescent moon, he said. In an interview this week he recalled the special orders they placed, as well as other details. "I didn't know she was pregnant," he said of Mrs. Everett. "But she was heavyset, wearing a long, long dress."
As the couple ate, an East Orange officer, a regular customer, came in for a sandwich and told Mr. Fajimolu that an Orange officer had just been gunned down six blocks away. "He told me to call if I saw anyone matching the description," Mr. Fajimolu said. "I told him I'd hit the panic button."
It never dawned on either man that the bald man eating cheeseburgers with his wife might be a suspect, Mr. Fajimolu said.
Two nights later, April 10, a detective came by asking to see the restaurant's security tape. Mr. Fajimolu played it back for him. But images from the night of April 8 had already been erased because the tape records over itself every 24 hours, he said. The detective left without asking Mr. Fajimolu any other questions, he said.
He said that detectives returned on April 12 and 13 with subpoenas, and another manager provided receipts showing orders for the same meals Mr. Everett said he had ordered, at the same time he said he had.
But investigators did not question Mr. Fajimolu. On April 15, he told his story to reporters for The Star-Ledger. The newspaper quoted him the next day as saying that Mr. Everett "was here that night."
That morning, Mr. Fajimolu was picked up at home and brought to the Essex County Prosecutor's office. He repeated his story.
That night, as word surfaced that Mr. Woodson was the newest suspect in Officer Carnegie's shooting, Ms. Hurt hastily called a news conference at her office to announce that Mr. Everett had been exonerated. Around the corner, a gate swung open and Mr. Everett walked out of the county jail.
Inside her office, Ms. Hurt abruptly ended her news conference by bundling her papers and rising. A reporter shouted a last question: Would she apologize to Mr. Everett and his family?
Saying nothing, the Prosecutor walked out.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE PROSECUTOR -- Patricia A. Hurt said her office had handled the investigation well. (The Star-Ledger); THE OFFICER -- Joyce Anne Carnegie was shot after encountering a man matching the description of a robber. Left, investigators collecting evidence near her car. (Associated Press); THE SUSPECTS -- Terrance Everett, right, was jailed for six days before officials announced that they had the wrong man and released him. A day later, Condell B. Woodson, top left, was charged with killing Officer Carnegie. Earl Faison, bottom left, was also arrested in the case but died in custody. The cause of death has not been determined. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 44)
 
Map of Orange, N.J. showing the location of the shooting. (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (58%); ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (58%); ESSEX COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); MURDER (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); EYEWITNESSES (87%); HOMICIDE (78%); ALIBI (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; FEUER, ALAN; EVERETT, TERRANCE; CARNEGIE, JOYCE (POLICE OFFICER); HURT, PATRICIA A (COUNTY PROSECUTOR); WOODSON, CONDELL TERRANCE EVERETT (95%); PATRICK TOSCANO (73%); JOYCE ANNE CARNEGIE (65%); EARL FAISON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



558 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Everything but the Angst: Items from Woody Allen Films Sold

 BODY:
The place was a nondescript warehouse in Long Island City, Queens, the time yesterday morning. But the thousands of objects crowding the shelves and floor in the cavernous space potently evoked other places and eras: there were mahogany radios and clunky microphones from the 1930's and 40's, a tall wooden phone booth with folding doors, the kind Superman would use, and a collection of halberds, pikes and tridents of the sort you might see in hell.
You did see them in hell, actually, if you saw the Woody Allen movie "Deconstructing Harry," about a bitter, blocked writer who spends some time there for his many sins. 
 The demonic implements and other artifacts were fragments of Mr. Allen's world -- props, set dressings, and wardrobe items from his movies over the last 10 years, removed from storage by his production company and put up for auction yesterday. The goals were to regain much-needed warehouse space and to raise some money for charity.
Just after 9 A.M., hundreds of people began to file into the 10,000-square-foot basement warehouse on Queens Plaza North to look at the approximately 3,700 items that were auctioned in 446 lots starting at 10:30 A.M.
One of those in the crowd was Angela Redman, an actress who said she had been an extra in a movie Mr. Allen made last fall. She said she had come just to look, not to buy.
Her friend Yasmine Delawari, also an actress, said, "It's a field trip for the girls." She examined a hinged, three-paneled screen illustrated with birds and trees. "This would make a nice addition to my boudoir," she said. "Every unemployed actress needs a nice boudoir to get dressed in."
But to other Allen aficionados, the auction was more significant: a rare public opportunity to own a piece of that quintessential New York thing, a Woody Allen movie. Several movies, in fact.
At least some of the items were within reach of those with modest budgets. Arlene Lederman paid $20 for a replica of a wedding cake used in "Celebrity."
"Maybe it will encourage my daughter to get married sooner," she said jokingly.
Andreas Brown, a bookstore owner who inspected the collection on Friday, was hoping to add to the archive of thousands of books, posters, scripts and stills related to Mr. Allen that he has amassed over the last 20 years.
"I think Woody Allen might end up as the most significant figure in 20th century American film," Mr. Brown said. "Fifty years from now, all these things could be important."
The auction's organizers had a more prosaic view. "We had to make a pragmatic decision to dispose of a certain quantity or rent another warehouse," Richard Brick, who has co-produced Mr. Allen's three most recent films, said on Friday, "We decided to dispose of a quantity. It's like cleaning out your attic."
Since 1993, the producers of Woody Allen's last six films, Sweetheart Productions, have added objects used in those movies to an existing stock of similar objects, some dating back to 1988.
This cache, stored at another warehouse in Long Island City, provided Sweetheart Productions with a valuable source of material, as many of the items were recycled for use in more than one production.
But in December, after the shooting of Mr. Allen's latest film, which features Sean Penn and Uma Thurman, members of the production company realized they were running out of storage space. They decided to part with about a third of their inventory. Mr. Brick said that Jean Doumanian, the producer of Mr. Allen's last six films, decided in February to hold an auction and donate the proceeds to the National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations, and to two AIDS research organizations, AmFar and Elton John's AIDS Foundation.
Mr. Brick said the objects up for auction had never been appraised.
Throughout the day, the bidders followed Richard Schlesinger, the president of Top Hundred Promotional Sales, who presided over the auction, as he moved through the warehouse, standing near each item as it was auctioned and conducting the sale in a rapid, staccato style. At times he egged the crowd on to buy. Describing three wooden barrels, he said, "You cut them in half, you've got planters. You leave them whole and pour alcohol in, and 20 years later you've got a batch of fine bourbon."
Some bidders needed no encouragement. A man wearing a red jacket paid $200 for a neon sign bearing the silhouette of a hog and the words "Ben Caffrey's Pic-a-Rib," then raised his fist triumphantly and shouted "Yes!"
By 3 P.M., Mr. Schlesinger had gone through all the lots, and the crowd began lining up to pick up the items they had bought. Mr. Brick said that it was too early for a tally of the proceeds, but added that 97 percent of the objects had been sold.
The item that fetched the most money was a large Mobil gasoline sign that went for $1,200.
On of the last objects to be sold was the folding screen Ms. Delawari had been admiring. Her friend bid $20 for it on her behalf, and a moment later the screen was hers.
"It's going right into the boudoir," Ms. Delawari said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ashtray stand that had a (presumably nonstarring) role in a Woody Allen film drew the attention of bidders at yesterday's Allen memorabilia auction in Queens. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BREAST CANCER ORGANIZATIONS; AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR AIDS RESEARCH; ELTON JOHN'S AIDS FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BREAST CANCER ORGANIZATIONS; AMERICAN FOUNDATION FOR AIDS RESEARCH; ELTON JOHN'S AIDS FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; AUCTIONS VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CHARITIES (78%); WRITERS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BOOKSTORES (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); BREAST CANCER (59%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, WOODY ELTON JOHN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



559 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: This Factory's Bats Are Going, Going, Gone;
As Home of McGwire's 'Big Stick,' Struggling Upstate Town Gets a Lift

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: DOLGEVILLE, N.Y., April 21

 BODY:
The folks here have nothing against Sammy Sosa, calling him a fine fellow and a great ballplayer. But for a year now, there has been no more passionate a group of Mark McGwire fans than the people of this wooded little village on the southwest shoulder of the Adirondacks.
McGwire hails from California and plays his home games in St. Louis, but his bats are made here, at the Rawlings Adirondack factory. For generations, the sweet crack of wood on horsehide has been music to Dolgeville, and never more so than when McGwire is swinging. Since his assault on baseball's home run record last summer, sales of Adirondack bats have soared, and so has employment at the factory. 
 As McGwire chased the ghosts of Roger Maris and Babe Ruth, staying barely ahead of Sosa, the race became one of the biggest things ever to happen to Dolgeville, population 2,300. At Motor's Inn diner, where the old-timers gather early in the morning, at the North Hudson Woodcraft factory, where workers make parts for pianos and coffins, and in the village's taverns and parks, everyone became a fan of the St. Louis Cardinals slugger, rooting for him to beat Sosa, of the Chicago Cubs, to the record.
In the end, they both eclipsed Maris's single-season record of 61 homers in 1961, McGwire finishing with 70 and Sosa with 66.
"It was all anyone could talk about," said Nadine Johnson, owner of Motor's Inn. "We were all so excited about McGwire, the race and him using bats from here."
McGwire, like many other players, has a promotional deal with Rawlings, but he favored its bats long before he was paid to do so, before he became a star.
Exactly what the attention paid to his feats did to sales of the Adirondack bat, Rawlings Sporting Goods, based in St. Louis, will not say. "It's a trade secret, but I will say it has meant hundreds of thousands of bats," said Tim R. Socha, the plant manager. "We've been going nuts since last summer."
In an ordinary year, the factory's base work force is about 25, climbing to 55 in the busy season of winter and early spring, Mr. Socha said. "But we've been running around 90," he said, "and we're hiring to keep three shifts going."
According to Rawlings's most recent corporate report, its wood baseball bat revenue for the six-month period ended Feb. 28 was more than $2.3 million above the same period a year earlier, even as sales of its other sports equipment fell. The report credited McGwire with the increased bat sales. Rawlings had total revenue of $170.6 million in the year ended Aug. 31.
Mary Barnes has worked in the Dolgeville factory for years, but only with the buzz of the last year has she become a true fan. "I never paid much attention to baseball, really," she said. "But you just couldn't help getting excited about it. I mean, these are our bats."
And that is the best economic news in a long, long time for Dolgeville, tucked in the hills north of the Mohawk River and 23 miles east of Utica. The century-old clapboard houses and the flower beds here are well tended, but behind the trim exterior, the village is fading, its population and job base declining steadily, like so many places upstate that have lost the manufacturing that once fed them.
Jamestown lost its furniture makers and the Crescent wrench works, Troy lost the Arrow shirt collar factory, and Schenectady lost the American Locomotive Company and most of General Electric. Dolgeville's soon-to-be relic is the Daniel Green shoe factory, a great stone castle along East Canada Creek that once employed nearly 1,000 people, but has seen a series of layoffs. Most of the jobs have moved overseas, and the factory will cease production in June.
At least one resource has not deserted the region: the northern white ash, common to upstate New York and Pennsylvania, that is used in nearly all wooden baseball bats. Some of McGwire's bats have returned home, after a fashion. They now rest in the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, an hour's drive south of here.
The Adirondack bat was born here in the mid-1940's -- it became a part of Rawlings in 1975 -- and early on, its fortunes rose with the long ball. Bobby Thomson of the New York Giants popularized the brand in 1951 by using one to hit the fabled home run that won the Giants the National League pennant over the Brooklyn Dodgers in the pivotal playoff game.
Wood bat makers nearly went under when aluminum bats became popular in the 1970's. Aluminum bats last longer, they are lighter and, most important, a ball hit by one travels faster and farther. Though the professional leagues use only wood, aluminum bats account for the great majority of the $115 million-a-year domestic bat market.
But a backlash against aluminum bats has begun. After scores sharply increased and a number of pitchers were injured by line drives that were too fast to defend against, the National Collegiate Athletic Association imposed new rules last year restricting the performance of aluminum bats to make them more like wood. Officials are considering banning them entirely. A few collegiate and high school leagues have voluntarily given up aluminum for wood.
All of that is good news for Rawlings, a distant second in the wood bat market -- how distant the company will not say -- to the market leader, Hillerich & Bradsby of Louisville, Ky., maker of the Louisville Slugger.
Rawlings makes about one-third of the bats used by major league players, who are notoriously particular about their equipment. Hitters have been known to demand -- and receive -- new bats delivered overnight, and they have been known to reject bats for the tiniest flaws, real or imagined. A major leaguer who plays regularly will go through 100 to 150 bats in a season, Mr. Socha said, at $29 apiece.
The differences between one brand and another are tiny, but as is often noted, much of hitting is in the mind, and most players, like McGwire, use the same model every time up, unwilling to tolerate any unfamiliar element that might distract them. Sosa is unusual in that he readily switches not only brands but also bat sizes, and, in fact, has used an Adirondack bat on occasion.
A McGwire bat is 34 1/2 inches long and a relatively light 33 ounces, compared with 36 inches and 36 ounces for his fellow power hitters Albert Belle and Jose Canseco, who also swing Adirondacks.
Their almost superstitious insistence on sameness, plus lucrative promotional deals, makes most hitters paragons of brand loyalty. Exclusive users of Adirondack bats have included Willie Mays, Mike Schmidt, Reggie Jackson, Willie McCovey and Roberto Clemente.
Like major league teams looking for raw talent, Rawlings sends scouts into the countryside to hunt for the best trees. The wood is cut into cylinders, kiln-dried to make it resist cracking, turned on a lathe, sanded into shape, heat-stamped with the company's logo and usually dipped in a lacquer finish.
For the bats sold to the general public, which can cost as little as $10, the lathing and sanding are automated and take seconds. But in a room to one side of the factory, the major league bats are made with far greater care, each one taking several minutes. The room is lined with hundreds of "pattern bats," one for each major league client, used to guide the lathe when a new bat is being made. The sanding is done by hand.
"This is where it happens," said Bill Steele, supervisor of the major league room, pausing as if even he, after 30 years at the factory, were still a little awed by it all. "It was amazing what McGwire did last year, and it's amazing what's happened to us. I'm glad to be a part of it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Rawlings factory in Dolgeville, N.Y., Kimm Gage measures a bat cut to order for a major leaguer. Known for its Mark McGwire bats, the plant is humming lately. (Photographs by David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. 35); Dolgeville, N.Y., population 2,300, has seen its economic fortunes improve as the home of Mark McGwire's Rawlings Adirondack baseball bat. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. 40)
 
Map showing the location of Dolgeville, N.Y.: To find McGwire's bats, look to Dolgeville, N.Y., or Cooperstown. (pg. 40)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RAWL (NASDAQ) (78%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO; ST LOUIS CARDINALS RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO INC (57%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO; ST LOUIS CARDINALS ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOLGEVILLE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BASEBALL BATS; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ATHLETES (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); 

PERSON: MCGWIRE, MARK; PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



560 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: April 18-24;
Trade Gap Widens

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The American economy is booming and increasing its imports while much of the world is drifting in economic doldrums with a diminishing appetite for American goods. The result has sharply increased the American trade deficit, which in February reached $19.4 billion. The deficit renewed debate over just how "free" the nation's trade policies should be.
 RICHARD W. STEVENSON
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMY INSURANCE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); 

PERSON: RICHARD W STEVENSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



561 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROTHSTEIN, BEN

 BODY:
ROTHSTEIN-Ben. Died April 19, 1999. Retired, The New York Times, Sunday Art Director of The Week in Review, The New York Times Magazine, Fashions of the Times, Report on Men's Wear, Children's Fashions and the Home sections. Retired Senior Assistant Art Director and Studio Manager, Newsweek Magazine. He served his country during World War II as the Head of Regimental Training Aids at Fort McClellan, Alabama. A highly artistic, caring man, who melded professionalism with creativity, Ben won numerous awards for his editorial design. Ben was a member of The Sunday Department, under Lester Markel, when it received a 1953 Pulitzer PrizeSpecial Awards and Citations, for the "Review of the Week". He made the first illustration of the then to be built United Nations, which appeared in The New York Times Centennial Exhibit at The New York Public Library. He art directed for The New York Times Magazine's World's Fair section in the April 18, 1965 issue, the most comprehensive map to appear in any publication of the New York World's Fair. Ben taught newspaper graphics and designed a minority student publication for the "Michele Clark Fellowship Program for Minority Journalists" at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. As a volunteer, he taught art to children in the slums of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ben loved to travel. He also lived and worked in London for Mercury House Business Publications Ltd and in Jerusalem for the "Israeli Economist". An accomplished painter, he won many awards for his watercolors and oils; having studied Design and Painting in New York, Pratt Institute and New School; as well as the Fountainbleu School of Fine Arts, France. Ben was a member of New York's Salmagundi Club. He is survived by his wife, Fanny, daughter Linda Rothstein-Sosnick, both residing in Jamesburg, NJ.
ROTHSTEIN-Ben. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Ben Rothstein, associated with The Times from 1935 until retiring in 1980. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (67%); ISRAEL (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); NEWSWEEK INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (67%); ISRAEL (52%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (67%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (52%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); JOURNALISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MEN (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, BEN LESTER MARKEL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



562 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
AS LEADERS MEET, NATO AIR CAMPAIGN ENTERS 2D MONTH

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
NATO began its second month of bombing against Yugoslavia today with new strikes against military targets that disrupted civilian electrical and water supplies, as the alliance's leaders took steps to expand the war effort, including an agreement to use air bases in Hungary.
Meeting here to commemorate the alliance's 50th anniversary, NATO's leaders vowed to sharpen pressure on Yugoslavia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, to end his campaign against Albanians in Kosovo. The Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orban, disclosed today that his country had agreed to allow NATO war planes to operate from all three of its military airfields. 
 With the supreme commander of NATO, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, requesting 400 more aircraft for intensified strikes, the assent by Hungary gives the alliance the ability to attack with more firepower from more approaches nearby. Hungary, one of the alliance's three new members, is the only NATO country to share a border with Yugoslavia.
Broadening its war effort on another level, NATO leaders agreed on Friday to impose an oil embargo enforced by NATO warships plying the Adriatic Sea. Although details of that blockade must still be worked out, the Pentagon said today that allied warships would search tankers and divert those found to be carrying oil to Yugoslavia.
A Pentagon official said the allied ships would fire on any vessels that defied the blockade, first as a warning and then to disable, if not sink, violators. While NATO already has a considerable armada in the Adriatic and Ionian Seas, it could take a week to organize a blockade.
President Clinton, appearing at the summit conference after a second day of meetings with leaders of NATO's 18 other members, defended the gambit, even though some allies, including France, had expressed reservations about its legality. "If we want this campaign to succeed with economic and political pressure and with the air action, then we have to take every reasonable means to give it the chance to succeed," he said.
NATO's latest step brought a new denunciation from Russia, which has strongly opposed the raids on Yugoslavia. Russian officials vowed to continue shipping oil to Yugoslavia's ports on the Adriatic coast, raising the prospect of confrontations at sea.
"The blockade is bad," Russia's special envoy to Yugoslavia, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, said today in Moscow. "The problem in Kosovo can be solved neither by bombing nor by a blockade."
The second day of NATO's summit meeting shifted to a discussion of the alliance's long-range strategies, including how NATO can use its collective resources to slow the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons. But the air war in the Balkans loomed over the proceedings.
In opening remarks this morning, Mr. Clinton urged his colleagues to remember the three American soldiers who have been held as prisoners of war in Yugoslavia since they were captured along the Macedonian border on March 31.
The International Committee of the Red Cross announced today that its director, Cornelio Sommaruga, would meet with Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade on Monday to discuss the fate of the three Americans and the plight of Kosovo's ethnic Albanians.
In his remarks, Mr. Clinton derided Yugoslavia's refusal to allow the Red Cross to visit the prisoners, as explicitly required by the Geneva Convention of 1949, despite Mr. Milosevic's pledge in a television interview this week. The Red Cross's spokeswoman in Geneva, Amanda Williamson, said, "We will be reminding the Yugoslav authorities of their responsibilities."
After cloudy weather limited NATO's air strikes overnight on Friday, allied missiles and aircraft carried out attacks tonight in Novi Sad and Nis, Yugoslavia's second and third-largest cities after Belgrade. The Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported an intense barrage of 26 missiles during a half hour in Nis. The agency said the railway, water mains, an office building and an industrial complex had all been hit.
NATO and Pentagon officials said the strikes in Nis had focused on the airfield and the barracks of the Third Army, the force leading the offensive against Albanians in Kosovo. They reported attacks on the oil refinery in Novi Sad, which has been hit before, as well as an oil storage installation, two other airfields, still more radar sites and bridges.
As the bombings continue, they are starting to take a toll on Yugoslavia's civilian society. Strikes on electrical grids have caused outages. Water pressure has become erratic in some cities. In many cases, water mains are carried on the bridges that NATO has been knocking down.
"There is, of course, also an aspect of civilian inconvenience," NATO's spokesman, Jamie P. Shea, said today. "I acknowledge that, but it's not our intention -- I want to make this clear -- to in any way render the life of Serbs even more difficult than it already is. Our intention is simply to target the military power apparatus."
Yugoslavia's state television network, whose studios in Belgrade were struck early on Friday, went off the air again early today and did not resume for five hours. There was no immediate explanation for the disruption, but NATO struck radio and television relay towers at Kragujevac and Novi Sad overnight. Mr. Shea openly threatened to hit state television again and again until it was knocked off the air. Early on Sunday morning, air strikes cut state television's satellite transmissions and seriously affected reception in Belgrade, Reuters reported.
The network is among a new category of targets that General Clark has received permission to strike, but the strikes have caused deep misgivings among some allies.
Italy's Foreign Minister, Lamberto Dini, said today that he had not known about the attack in advance and did not support it.
Even Mr. Clinton distanced himself somewhat from the military decision to strike at the television studio headquarters, saying NATO's commanders considered the television network "an essential instrument of Mr. Milosevic's command and control."
"It is not in a conventional sense therefore a media outlet," he said. "That was a decision they made, and I did not reverse it."
Despite misgivings, NATO's allies appeared unified at the summit meeting, which was marked by the alliance's determination to intensify the campaign, now in its 32d day. Mr. Clinton appealed again for patience, noting that the United States and its allies bombed Iraq's forces for 44 days in the prelude to the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
"I don't think that this air campaign has been going on for a particularly long time," he said.
With the campaign expanding to around-the-clock bombings and hundreds of aircraft overcrowding Italy's skies, Hungary's willingness to open its airfields became critical.
For Hungary, the conflict with Yugoslavia has proved particularly troubling. Its leaders have expressed fear that a more active role could put at risk some 300,000 ethnic Hungarians living in Vojvodina, another Serbian province whose autonomy was stripped along with Kosovo's in 1989. "It's extremely complicated for Hungary," Prime Minister Orban said today.
While sympathetic, NATO officials told Hungary that as a NATO ally it now had an obligation to open up the bases, according to a senior NATO official. Many of the 300 additional American warplanes are expected eventually to end up in Hungary, where NATO officers are already assessing bases in Taszar, Kecskemet and Papa.
The Czech Republic, another new member, also has offered its bases, according to a spokesman for President Vaclav Havel, but they are less crucial to NATO's plans. NATO also received permission from Bulgaria and Romania, to the east of Yugoslavia, to make use of their airspace.
Despite the intensification of the air war, NATO has been forced to consider the blockade to stop the flow of oil to Yugoslavia's military. Although air raids have damaged the country's two principal refineries and scores of depots, Yugoslavia is still receiving shipments through its ports. Some NATO commanders have argued for the destruction of the oil sites at the ports, but NATO political leaders worry about significant strikes in the Yugoslav federation's smaller republic, Montenegro, whose government is seen as less hostile to the West.
Although Yugoslav forces are still able to wage war, NATO officials say they have detected what they interpret to be signs of strain in Mr. Milosevic's control. A spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Alastair Campbell, said a number of Yugoslav generals and retired generals had been arrested.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leaving the Ronald Reagan Building yesterday after the morning session of the summit meeting were, from left, Jacques Chirac of France, Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, Costas Simitis of Greece, Poul Rasmussen of Denmark, President Clinton and Javier Solana, NATO's Secretary General. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 15)
 
Chart/Map: "NATO's Theater of Operations"
A look at the major concentrations of NATO forces involved in Kosovo.
 
BRITAIN
 FAIRFORD -- American B-52's, KC-135's
 MILDENHALL -- American KC-135's
 LAKENHEATH -- American F-15's
 
GERMANY
 SPANGDAHLEM -- American F-16's, F-17'S, A-10's
 RAMSTEIN -- American C-17's, C-130's
 BRUGGEN -- British Tornado GR-1's, VC-10 tanker support
 
ITALY
 NAPLES -- Command and control
 VICENZA -- Tactical operations
 ISTRANA -- French aircraft
 PIACENZA -- German aircraft
 AMENDOLA -- Dutch aircraft
 CERVIA -- American F-15's
 GIO DEL COLLA -- British Harrier GR-7's, Canberra PR-9 reconnaissance plane
 ANCONA -- British Tristar and VC-10 tanker support
 AVIANO -- American F-15's, F-117's, F-16's, KC-135's, C-130's; British E-3D's; Portuguese, Canadian and German fighters
 
ADRIATIC AND IONIAN SEAS
 AIRCRAFT CARRIERS -- U.S.S. Roosevelt, H.M.S. Invincible, F.N.S. Foch
 AT LEAST -- 4 missile cruisers, 7 destroyers, 4 missile frigates, 4 attack submarines, 3 assault ships, 5 mine sweepers
 
SURROUNDING KOSOVO
 TIRANA, ALBANIA -- 24 Apache helicopters, 3,000 support troops, 6,000 to 8,000 troops on the way
 MACEDONIA -- 15,000 troops involved in aid mission (Include French, British, German and American)
 
Map of Europe
 
(Sources: NATO; U.S. Navy; U.S. Air Force; British Ministry of Defense)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); HUNGARY (94%); GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ALBANIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); US AIR FORCE (59%); US NAVY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); US AIR FORCE (59%); US NAVY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); HUNGARY (94%); GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ALBANIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); MARINE TANKERS (72%); BULK SHIPPING (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JAVIER SOLANA (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



563 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1;Page 14;Column 1;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: SNAPSHOTS;
Night and Day, Day and Night Between Washington and the Balkans

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24

 BODY:
NATO's anniversary pageant is playing on two stages, as political theater and in the theater of war, and its powerful rhetoric clashes with the forces of battle in Belgrade and the Balkans.
President Clinton was alone in his residence at 8:10 P.M. on Thursday, reviewing his summit speeches, work left undone in a hectic week. At that moment, the state television station in Belgrade exploded, wrecked by NATO's missiles. 
 At 7:30 A.M. Friday in Washington, black limousines bearing Prime Ministers tore through downtown toward the White House, and green tractors hauling refugees groaned toward the Macedonian border town of Lipkovo. Among the exiles was an old man named Rifat Bajrami.
"The Serbs have made me live like an animal," he said. "For what? What harm have I brought to them? A man spends his entire life building a home for himself. Then his life is destroyed by irrational hatred."
At 9:30 A.M. in Washington, while rescue workers searched the rubble of the Belgrade television station, Mr. Clinton took to the world's airwaves, opening the summit meeting by criticizing the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic.
"Mr. Milosevic's forces burn and loot homes and murder innocent people," he said. "Our forces deliver food and shelter and hope to the displaced. Mr. Milosevic fans the flames of anger between nations and peoples." The Serbian leader, he said, "knows only one way to achieve his aims -- through force."
As Mr. Clinton spoke, Branko Novakovic, a retired Yugoslav diplomat with pleasant memories of his nine years in Washington, looked out his seventh-floor apartment window in Belgrade at the ruins of the former Communist Party headquarters, hit by NATO on Wednesday night.
Mr. Novakovic, who is 78, awoke Friday morning after a fitful night punctuated by explosions, turned on his radio, and heard of the television station's destruction -- a dozen dead, many missing.
"Very bad news," he said over a clear telephone line. "This has been bombed, that has been bombed. Many people are living in shelters, under very hard conditions, and they are very distressed, psychologically in a poor condition. They don't know what to expect the next day. They live in fear. Some people cannot bear it. The bombing goes on, and they don't understand why.
"They are not guilty," he added. "They did not expect this from the countries they considered friends. They used to like these countries and now they are beginning to hate them."
The words of Mr. Clinton's opening speech were read to him. "Whatever he thinks and whoever they blame, this is not the right way to do it," Mr. Novakovic said. "We don't have any idea what the situation is down there in Kosovo. But to keep the whole population under siege for so long, this is horrible. It is not human."
Shortly after 1 P.M. in Washington, NATO's 19 leaders began speaking in turn, some at length. The shortest speech by far was from Costas Simitis, the Prime Minister of Greece, a nation less than enthusiastic about NATO's air war. It was a kind of parable, and this was it in its entirety:
"Ladies and gentlemen, 50 years ago, in 1949, the Government troops entered a Greek village and killed two young people. Asked why, they answered: they were Bulgarian Communists. Two days later, the rebels came and they killed also two young people. Asked why, they said: they were American fascists. NATO was and should be an effort to put an end to such practices and such mentalities. NATO should be an effort to secure cooperation, peace and prosperity. I think it's a great aim and we must work for it."
Mr. Clinton quoted a 1949 speech by Dean Acheson, the Secretary of State who hoped NATO's creation would "free the minds of men in many nations from a haunting sense of insecurity."
By 3 P.M., the leaders were done speaking, and the exiles from Malisevo, a village of 800 homes outside Gnjilane in Kosovo, were bedding down on blankets laid over newly spread crushed stone in a cleared garbage dump. Newly arrived at a refugee camp in Neprosteno, Macedonia, they told their stories to a researcher for Human Rights Watch, Ben Ward.
The Serbian paramilitary squads came to the village. They stole everything they could and separated the old from the young. The young were told to lie face down with hands behind heads. The masked men pulled out a list of peoples' names and told their captives to inform or die. Two men, ages 18 and 20, were shot. Another man, age 34, was ordered to bury them with his bare hands.
"One thing that came through strongly was the absolute terror people felt," Mr. Ward said by telephone from Skopje.
It was 4:15 P.M. in Washington when air raid sirens pierced the night in Belgrade. A few minutes later, a bolt of lightning flashed and an enormous thunderclap broke over the White House, setting off electronic security alarms in the streets of a capital on high alert against terrorism.
At 4:40 P.M., the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said NATO's leaders had agreed to step up its attack on the political, military and economic architecture of Mr. Milosevic's power, aiming more bombs and missiles at Belgrade.
In Belgrade at that hour, Gordana Ristic, 33, was preparing to spend another night in the basement-cum-bomb shelter of her apartment building, a mile from the heart of the city.
"It was a really horrible night last night," she said by telephone. "There were explosions every few minutes after 2 A.M. This morning I woke up in a totally strange situation. I went to my job, marketing and public relations, in the center of Belgrade, and when I came in I looked around to see if everything was in its right place.
"I thought, 'Maybe this is my last day. Tomorrow things will not be there. My plants. My computer.'
"I really love Belgrade," added Ms. Ristic, no fan of Mr. Milosevic, but of late a Serbian nationalist. "I'm sorry that leaders in your country are not willing to read history. You destroy what is material in this country. Buildings. Bridges. But never people."
A reporter read to her from Mr. Clinton's speeches at the summit meeting. She sounded torn between anger and tears. "This is the bottom to which civilization, in which I believed, has gone," she said. "Clinton is playing a role, singing a song in an opera. It kills me."
As she slept, NATO's leaders dined on soft-shell crabs and spring lamb in the East Room of the White House. Dessert was a little chocolate globe. Jessye Norman sang arias. And as the last limousine left, near midnight, Saturday morning's all-clear sounded in Belgrade, a gray dawn came up over the Balkans, and rivulets of people rose in the mountains and began to flow down toward the mosque in Lipkovo.
Saturday morning in Washington, as NATO's spokesmen recited the list of what was destroyed overnight -- an oil refinery, an airport, a bridge, a television tower -- day ending in Belgrade, and in the ruins of the broadcast station, the search went on for the missing and the dead.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 1999, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday about the NATO summit meeting in Washington misidentified the building where delegates occupied a pentagon-shaped table. It was the Mellon Auditorium, not the Pentagon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: NATO leaders at the Pentagon yesterday morning, while refugees from Kosovo and Belgrade sifted through rubble. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); REFUGEES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



564 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS;
Bosnia's Loss is an American City's Gain

BYLINE: By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. His column on the Main Street economy appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
AN unexpected side effect of the turmoil in the Balkans has Steve Hrdlicka hopping.
For most of the 1990's, the Southern Commercial Bank branch on Gravois Avenue, where Mr. Hrdlicka is a loan officer, was a forlorn place, stuck in an aging neighborhood in a shrinking city. New accounts were few, and the shuttered businesses along Gravois and other once-bustling streets in the Bevo neighborhood of south St. Louis suggested little hope for the future. 
 All that changed when a stream of new immigrants, largely Bosnians leaving behind the ethnic conflicts in the former Yugoslavia, began settling in this unlikely patch of the Midwest. "Eight years ago when we opened this branch, we sat on our hands most of the time -- we used to sleep quite a lot," recalled Mr. Hrdlicka (pronounced HERD-lick-a), now 39, who grew up in predominantly white, working-class south St. Louis, the great-grandson of Czech immigrants. "Then this place became a rally place for Bosnians. They would come in and ask for a loan for furniture. Then a car. Then it was a house, for themselves, their cousins."
Largely thanks to the Bosnian newcomers, who have developed a reputation for hard work and thrift, Mr. Hrdlicka's branch has doubled its deposits in the last two years.
For greater St. Louis, an unexpected opportunity for revival is seen in the arrival of an estimated 15,000 Bosnian immigrants in the 1990's -- a concentration second in size only to Chicago's -- along with smaller groups of newcomers from Mexico, Vietnam, Ethiopia and Somalia.
This kind of story, of a critical mass of hard-working immigrants revitalizing a sagging urban neighborhood, is a familiar one in immigrant havens like New York or Houston. But it is big news in St. Louis, which has largely been starved of fresh immigration for half a century.
In the late 1800's, new arrivals from Germany, Ireland, Italy and Eastern Europe were building St. Louis into an industrial and commercial metropolis to rival Chicago. But after World War II, the city lost its appeal to ambitious newcomers.
Since 1950, the population of the city has shriveled from 857,000 to roughly 350,000, proportionally the sharpest decline of any major American city. The vast surrounding suburbs, home now to roughly five times as many people, at first grew rapidly but have since also ebbed. In the 1990's the region has lost 63,000 people to other parts of the country and has ranked among the slowest-growing in the nation.
One important reason is that domestic migration out of St. Louis has not been balanced by immigration from abroad, as it has in New York or Los Angeles. According to William H. Frey, a demographer at the University of Michigan, the St. Louis metropolitan area, now the nation's 18th largest, ranked just 35th in the number of immigrants who settled there between 1990 and 1998, below much smaller cities like Hartford.
The paucity of immigrants locked St. Louis into what Mr. Frey calls a Rust Belt pattern of decay, which was easy to discern on the south side, historically an immigrant district. Old brick owner-occupied homes were gradually becoming rentals, and thriving commercial districts were slowly being abandoned. Prices for homes, stores, factory buildings and warehouses plummeted.
But those depressed conditions have made possible the current upsurge in Bosnian immigration, according to Ann Crosslin, president of the International Institute of St. Louis, a nonprofit group that aids refugees and promotes international cultural programs in the city. She said the small first wave of refugees, in the early 1990's, found housing costs so low -- a two-bedroom apartment in Bevo rents for roughly $400 a month, and $50,000 buys a decent house -- that the area soon attracted fellow Bosnians who had first landed in other places.
"St. Louis is seen as a cheap place to live," noted Jasna Mruckovski, a refugee from Banja Luka, the Bosnian Serb capital, who arrived in St. Louis in 1994. "People come from California, Chicago and Florida, where it's more expensive. Bosnians don't care if they start by buying the smallest, ugliest house. At least they feel they have something."
Ms. Mruckovski (pronounced muh-ruh-KOV-ski), 25, should know. By day a translator in Southern Commercial's Bevo branch, she moonlights as a real estate agent and has helped sell 33 homes in the area over the last year, all but one to Bosnian buyers. In many cases, she said, whole families including children pooled wages to buy those homes.
THE willingness of Bosnian immigrants to work hard at two or even three jobs is becoming legendary among local employers. With unemployment in the region only slightly over 3 percent, opportunities abound. At Willert Home Products, a local maker of mothballs and potpourri, a third of the 320 employees are immigrants.
"You want to find employees with a good work ethic, and the refugees are about the best," said W. D. Willert, president of the company. "We now have 12 nationalities here, and when we need more workers we know the Bosnians will call their cousins."
Almost no immigrants in the St. Louis area are on welfare. Of the estimated 17,000 families receiving benefits through Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the largest welfare program, just 40 are foreign-born, according to Ms. Crosslin.
Like many other immigrant groups before them, the Bosnians will probably have an increasing impact on their new home as business owners. Bosnian immigrants have already started a trucking company and dozens of Bosnian restaurants, shops and grocery stores, Mr. Hrdlicka, the banker, said.
One of these new entrepreneurs is Alem Boric, 27, who came here from Sarajevo in 1995. He started as a laborer, first at a pipe company and later at a battery maker. Using his savings, he opened Europa Market last year, selling mainly Balkan specialties to local customers. But Mr. Boric (pronounced BOW-rick), who owned a casino in Sarajevo and left only when Bosnian Serbs began shelling the city, has bigger plans: video distribution and wholesaling.
"This is a great place to start a business, because it's cheap and there's a lot of opportunity," he said. "St. Louis is also going to be a great place to make a lot of money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Hrdlicka, a loan officer in St. Louis, said his bank branch was a sleepy backwater until a wave of Bosnian newcomers arrived. Among the immigrants is Alem Boric, far right, who fled Sarajevo in 1995, worked as a laborer for a couple of years and then used the money he made to open a market. "This is a great place to start a business," Mr. Boric said. Jasna Mruckovski, who fled Banja Luka and who now sells real estate, says one of the draws is that St. Louis "is seen as a cheap place to live." (Photographs by Tim Parker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN COMMERCIAL BANK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANK BRANCHES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: STEVE HRDLICKA (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1999



565 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 10;Column 6;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
Too Personal At the Interview

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. I am just beginning a job search, and I've already been asked twice in interviews whether I am married, have children or plan to have children. While my answers to the first two questions are yes and no, I have dodged the third, for fear that any child-bearing plans might cost me a new job. Is it true that employers aren't supposed to ask? How should I handle it when they do?
 
A. A job hunt is tough enough without having to dance around uncomfortable -- and, yes, illegal -- interview questions. 
 In many states, it is illegal even to ask about a candidate's marital status, said Mark A. Jacoby, an employment lawyer at Weil, Gotshal & Manges in Manhattan. And regardless of where you live, interview questions about pregnancy or plans for becoming pregnant are forbidden. Under Federal law, he explained, "The issue would be tied to a possible disability as a result of pregnancy -- in effect, discriminating against someone who plans to get pregnant and therefore be disabled."
As is often the case, however, boldly asserting your legal rights may not be the best way to get what you want. "You can say, 'Those are illegal questions,' and refuse to answer," said Caryl Rae Krannich, co-author of "Interview for Success" (Impact Publications, 1998). "That may make you feel good at the moment, but it is sure to kill your chances of getting the job."
In some cases, the interviewer is just trying to make small talk and isn't thinking about the legal consequences of his questions, Mr. Jacoby said. If you make a big deal out of a question, you're likely only to increase the interviewer's interest in it.
One approach is to finesse the issue by playing it "honest but smart," Ms. Krannich said. If you deny any plans to have children, but then show up pregnant shortly thereafter, she said, you could hurt your relationship with your new employer.
"At the same time," Ms. Krannich cautioned, "you want to put the best face on the situation." Offering too much information -- how many children you're hoping for, or just when you plan to have them -- falls into the "honest and stupid" category, she said.
Keep your responses brief and to the point, she advised. "A lot of people talk too much when asked about things that make them uncomfortable," she said. "Just answer the question and move on."
A long, rambling response will alert an observant interviewer to your discomfort and can make the interviewer wonder, "If she responds this way to this question, what will she be like to work with?"
If you object on principle to the questions, you can make the subtle point that they are inappropriate, Ms. Krannich said. "Say something like: "Gee, that's interesting. I've not been asked that question before in a job interview."
Unfortunately, in some cases an interviewer's motives may not be so innocent. If you sense that your questioner knows that his line of inquiry is inappropriate but is pursuing it anyhow, you may want to reconsider whether to work for that company.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Working column on April 25, about personal questions in job interviews, misstated the legal treatment of interview questions involving a potential employee's pregnancy or child-bearing plans. Under Federal law, a company cannot use the answers to such questions in a decision on hiring, but it is not prohibited from asking them. The courts, however, usually regard such questions as evidence that pregnancy was a factor in refusing to hire someone, according to a lawyer at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The column also misstated the treatment of pregnancy in disability law. Under the Americans With Disabilities Act, normal pregnancy is not a protected disability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND FAMILIES INTERVIEWS (92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); LAWYERS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999



566 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
'Internet Governor' Woos Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., April 25

 BODY:
James S. Gilmore 3d, the Governor of Virginia, stood on the steps of the Netscape Communications Corporation's headquarters last Tuesday and smiled in the morning sun. The man Virginians know as the "Internet Governor" was 3,000 miles from his constituents but he insisted he felt at home in Silicon Valley.
"I speak their language," Governor Gilmore said. "We're on line together." 
 Whether the Governor correctly interpreted the ties remains to be seen. One thing is certain: as the worlds of politics and high technology increasingly come together, Governor Gilmore is a man who would like to be at the nexus.
In recent years, Virginia's high-technology economy has surged and Governor Gilmore, a Republican, has made Internet policy central to his 18-month stint in office.
He helped create and signed what supporters deemed the nation's first comprehensive set of state Internet laws, created the first state technology cabinet post, made fast ties with Virginia's technology industry and aggressively recruited technology companies to consider making Virginia their home.
Now he is seeking to parlay his efforts into a national role. Last December, he was named to a Federal commission charged with studying Internet tax issues, and he hopes the Internet policies pioneered in Virginia will be used as a blueprint by other states.
His three-day tour of California last week represented a coming-out party of sorts, an effort to sell himself and Virginia at ground zero of the digital revolution. He said he felt a warm reception from executives at the likes of Netscape, Oracle and Cisco Systems. But it was also clear that Governor Gilmore's portrayal of Virginia as the "Internet state" did not overly impress the industry titans in Silicon Valley.
"Everybody comes here trying to get a little Silicon Valley dust on their shoes," said Netscape's chief executive, James L. Barksdale, during his meeting with the Governor, though not appearing to refer to the Governor personally.
Then again, what made the visit to Netscape particularly symbolic is that Netscape recently was purchased by America Online, the brightest jewel in Virginia's high-technology crown.
In addition to America Online, Virginia is home to MCI Worldcom and one of its subsidiaries, Uunet, as well as Psinet. Governor Gilmore is fond of saying that thanks to the presence of those companies -- Uunet and PSInet are Internet service providers -- 50 percent of all Internet traffic goes through Virginia.
More generally, Virginia's high-technology economy has been on a tear. Over the last five years, the technology sector has generated more than 60 percent of the growth in the state's economy, according to the Governor's office. The office also projected that the number of technology businesses in Virginia would grow to 5,300 by 2002, up from 3,400 now.
Governor Gilmore says he has never called himself "the Internet Governor," but he does not mind the title a bit. "If somebody wants to refer to me as that, I won't run from it," he said.
Not everyone, however, agrees with the moniker. To his detractors, Governor Gilmore is a Johnny-come-lately who has tried to transform himself into a "governor.com." Critics say he hardly uttered a word about technology until after he became Governor in 1997 and has since sought to take credit for Virginia's high-technology growth. They point out that Governor Gilmore's gubernatorial opponent, Donald S. Beyer Jr., was much more closely tied to northern Virginia's technology companies.
"The high-tech economy has been booming for years," said Kenneth R. Plum, chairman of the Democratic Party of Virginia. "He's gotten on board and is riding it for all it's worth."
Still, Mr. Plum and other critics do not dispute that Governor Gilmore and the Internet industry have become fast friends in the intervening months. Many in the industry say the Governor is one of the few politicians who has made a truly concerted effort to understand their new economy.
"He's recognized what the Internet is, how it got there and what impact it can have" said Stephen M. Case, the chief executive of America Online, adding that Governor Gilmore's efforts in Virginia are being emulated elsewhere.
"There is a recognition this is a launching pad," Mr. Case said. "The policies set in Virginia could become a blueprint."
It has not hurt the Governor's standing among the state's technology companies that he has offered tax breaks to support their growth. For example, he engineered an $18 million tax break for America Online as an incentive for the company to build a new data center in Prince William County.
Supporters also credit Governor Gilmore with being the first governor in the nation to create a technology cabinet post (although Democratic critics in the state contend they had the idea first). The Secretary of Technology post is held by Donald W. Upson, a former marketing executive, who is charged with attracting high-technology business to Virginia and exploring how the state can use information technology internally.
Based on the work of a state commission created by Governor Gilmore, he signed the nation's most broad-based state Internet laws last month, giving force to seven bills called the Internet Policy Act. Among other things, the act has provisions to protect consumer privacy, make it a crime to use encryption for criminal activity and make it a criminal offense to send unsolicited commercial E-mail.
Numerous other states are considering Internet-related laws, and some are patterning them after the work of Virginia, said Paul Russinoff, state policy counsel for the Internet Alliance, an industry trade group.
"If you're a fan of heavy regulation on the Internet, you may find the Virginia act unsatisfying, but it is one of the few policy initiatives I've seen at a state level that takes a realistic approach," Mr. Russinoff said.
"I'm not saying there aren't other 'Internet governors' out there," he added. "But Governor Gilmore is absolutely focused on the medium."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d of Virginia, right, shakes hands with James L. Barksdale, the chief executive of Netscape. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "High-Technology State"
Quite a few information-technology companies are based in Virginia or have significant presences there. Here is a sampling.
 
BASED IN VIRGINIA
America Online -- Vienna, VA
Uunet Technologies -- Fairfax, VA
Psinet -- Herndon, VA
Network Solutions -- Herndon, VA
Capital One -- Falls Church and Richmond, VA
White Oak Semiconductor -- Richmond, VA
 
OPERATIONS IN VIRGINIA
Oracle Corporation -- Herndon, VA
Gateway Computers -- Hampton, VA
 
VIRGINIA'S NATIONAL RANK
Software industry employment -- 2
Technology growth -- Top 5
High-technology employment (137,000 jobs) -- 9
Venture capital investment -- Top 10
 
(Sources: American Electronics Association; Information Technology Association of America) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 3 TAX CUTS FOR ALL AMERICANS ACT (79%); 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (95%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (95%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (99%); VIRGINIA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) INTERNET & WWW (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; GILMORE, JAMES S 3D (GOV) JIM GILMORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



567 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treasury Is Set to Auction Bills and Notes

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week offers today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a 52-week bill to be auctioned tomorrow and a two-year note to be auctioned on Wednesday.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 

TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Cabot Industrial Properties L.P., $200 million of redeemable notes due in 2004, Baa2/BBB-/---. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Delphi Automotive Systems, $1.5 billion of global notes consisting of 5-year, 10-year and 30-year tranches, Baa2/BBB/---. Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Flagstar Trust, 2.6 million shares of $25 cumulative trust preferred securities due 2029, ---/---/---. Roney.
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., $100 million of senior notes due in 2009, Ba3/---/---. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Republic of Uruguay, $250 million of 10-year global notes, Baa3/BBB-/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Rouse Co., $200 million of notes due in 2009, Baa2/ BBB-/---. BT Alex. Brown & Merrill Lynch & Co.
Sprint Capital Corp., $3 billion in global senior unsecured debentures to be guaranteed by Sprint Corp., Baa1/BBB+/---. Salomon Smith Barney and Warburg, Dillon Read & Co.
Whitman Corp., $300 million of notes consisting of $150 million due 2004 and $150 million due 2009, Baa2/ A-/---. CS First Boston.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
WEDNESDAY
Los Angeles M.T.A., $179.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
Virginia Public Building Authority, $69.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Houston, $203.5 million of public improvement and refunding revenue bonds. Siebert, Brandford, Shank & Co.
Illinois Housing Development Authority, $55 million of single family mortgage bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Maine Health and Higher Education Finance Authority, $98.8 million of debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.
Nevada, $85 million of general obligation bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); S (NYSE) (84%); HOV (NYSE) (83%); GGP (NYSE) (68%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (83%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (83%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (68%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (68%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (69%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (84%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (83%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (68%); DILLON READ & CO INC (66%); WHITMAN CORP (66%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (65%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); US TREASURY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US TREASURY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (69%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



568 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Unbowed and Only Slightly Bitter;
An Indonesian Writer and Survivor Preaches Courage

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
For three decades Pramoedya Ananta Toer, Indonesia's greatest modern writer, felt the full force of President Suharto's military state.
Clubbed on the head when he was seized by the police in 1965 -- Indonesia's infamous "year of living dangerously -- he lost much of his hearing. Arrested without charge, he was imprisoned and silenced for 14 years, confined for most of that time to a remote island penal colony where he was forced into hard labor and had to forage for food. More than a dozen years of closely monitored house arrest followed. 
 He is a free man now on his first visit to the United States, his first trip abroad since 1959. At 74 he is small and frail and speaks sparingly and quietly. But when he speaks there is no mistaking his strength, and no sign that his tormentors ever came close to breaking his will.
"You can't just seem strong; it takes more than strength to survive," he said on a balmy afternoon in the garden outside the United Nations, which he had just toured. "It took resistance, mental resistance as well as spiritual resistance. Strength was not enough."
Mr. Pramoedya's story of suffering and survival on the prison island of Buru is the theme of a memoir, "The Mute's Soliloquy," to be published in the United States on Wednesday by Hyperion East.
"The Mute's Soliloquy" is a collection of ruminations from the Buru experience in the form of notes to himself and unsent letters to his eight children, whose growing-up years he missed. The letters are full of fatherly advice: don't swim carelessly in the sea; take your vitamins; learn to relax before falling asleep at night; study history.
Speaking in Indonesian through an interpreter, his American editor and friend, John H. McGlynn, a co-founder of the Lontar Foundation to promote Indonesian literature abroad, Mr. Pramoedya (pronounced pram-OOH-dee-ah) is still pained by the damage his ordeal caused his family. In an interview, he was acerbic about the quality of Indonesian intellectual life and guarded in his predictions about Indonesia's future.
Last May the 30-year rule of General Suharto came to an end amid street protests against his corrupt and dictatorial military Government. At the same time an economic crisis gutted the currency and Indonesian living standards, bringing the International Monetary Fund into the management of the economy. Under an interim President, B. J. Habibie, elections are to be held in June to elect a new parliament, which in turn is to choose a new president this fall for Indonesia, the world's fourth most populous nation.
Mr. Pramoedya seems to doubt that Indonesians, consumed now by the settling of ethnic and political scores through violence on several islands, have the courage to make a clean sweep of the old order.
"We have a whole country of 'yes' people," he remarked dismissively.
He never was one. A leftist and supporter of Indonesia's first President, Sukarno, Mr. Pramoedya, continues to hold some anti-Western opinions and suspicions about the United States. He discourses freely on the corruption of the Indonesian military and the cowardice of the older generations, now closing ranks, he says, against change and possible revelations about the past.
He still has critics who suspect that he was closer than he admits to a Communist movement that was intent on controlling intellectual life in the 1960's and may have been prepared to seize political power in 1965, when General Suharto stepped into a murky coup and tens of thousands of suspected leftists and ethnic Chinese were slaughtered.
 
Late Recognition Is No Recompense
Mr. Pramoedya says that he cannot understand why anyone would be interested in these old accusations. But he says that to get into politics now would only revive old charges that he is a Communist. Mr. Sukarno's daughter, Megawati Sukarnoputri, is expected to be a leading candidate for president in the fall.
Mr. Pramoedya, who says he freed himself from house arrest in 1992 by simply walking out onto the street on Human Rights Day, has picked up several international prizes in recent years, among them the 1995 Magsaysay Award, Asia's top honor and a Unesco award in 1996.
His newest book was the subject of an Asia Society program on Thursday. Last week Fordham University, which arranged his trip to the United States, held a three-day symposium on his work. He is to receive an honorary degree this week from the University of Michigan and then plans to visit the University of Wisconsin and Berkeley before touring Canada and finally the Netherlands, the colonial power in Indonesia for 300 years. In 1947 Mr. Pramoedya was imprisoned by the Dutch.
For Mr. Pramoedya, recognition late in life is no recompense for "all the things that have been stolen from my life." Years of separation from his wife, Maimoenah Thamrin, and children in the 1960's and 70's was a kind of torture in itself, because he had vowed as a young man to be a better father than his scholarly but distant father had been. Even postcards to his children were censored. "But an even greater tragedy than being unable to teach my own children was that the atmosphere created by the New Order acted as a stronger teacher for them," he said, using the Suharto regime's name for itself.
"It was extremely difficult for them. During the time I was away they had to bear the burden of curses, people looking down on them, people exiling them within the community, so that they themselves didn't grow up naturally. They didn't become the people they should have been."
One of his daughters was barred from taking a final exam in pharmacology, although she topped the class. Even after Mr. Pramoedya's release from Buru in 1979, he said, his only son, then a young teen-ager, was beaten by a gang of taunters, then arrested and tortured by the police officers who arrived to break up the brawl.
If Mr. Pramoedya was deprived of a normal life, Indonesia was also denied the work of many writers and thinkers who shared his experience of harassment and years in prison. He does not hold the Government solely responsible for their isolation.
"You have to look at the intellectuals themselves," he said. "A good portion of the blame rests on the intellectuals. The Indonesian intelligentsia has no tradition of speaking out. The intelligentsia, for the most part, comes from the upper class. And that particular group of people was raised to respect the status quo. They listen to what their superiors say. This unfortunate aspect of Indonesian culture came to the fore in the past 30 years, where everyone from top to bottom had to listen to the top. The only exceptions you might find were the intellectuals who lived abroad."
But not many Indonesians lived and wrote abroad, being unable to tear themselves away from the intense cultures of their archipelago.
"Part of the problem is that many Indonesians felt that they could not survive abroad, not just in the intellectual sphere but in the material sphere," he said. "Indonesians seem to have a bit of an inferiority complex presenting themselves to the foreign world. Even when you talk about Indonesia itself, you don't find many Indonesians who know their own history. A lot of them have to read textbooks written by foreigners."
In Jakarta, where Mr. Pramoedya is still wary of leaving home alone for fear of Government spies or the police, his books of both fiction and history remain officially banned, though they are now widely available. His best-known novels form a four-part series, the Buru Quartet -- "This Earth of Mankind," "Child of All Nations," "Footsteps" and "House of Glass" -- built around the life of Minke, a Javanese boy who comes of age in the waning years of Dutch colonialism. The books were composed in his head on Buru, a mental exercise that helped preserve his strength and sanity. They were written down only late in his imprisonment, when he was allowed a typewriter.
 
Bravery as Capital For the Future
Politically charged students now flock to Mr. Pramoedya to draw on his wisdom.
"Wave after wave of young people come to my house and I keep telling them, 'Have the courage to stand up for your convictions,' " he said. "All that the younger generation needs is capital, capital in the sense of bravery and courage. Bravery and courage does not come down from the heavens. You have to create it yourself. It's as much a part of fitness as a physical fitness exercise."
Mr. Pramoedya is impressed by the emergence of the student movement that drove Mr. Suharto from power last May, especially since many of the young people were drawn from comfortable families in which challenging authority was not encouraged. "Oddly enough, having been raised in deceit has also opened their eyes to deceit and has brought them together as a class," he said. "They are without power. They had no weapons. They were without hope of success. But they went after Suharto and they brought him down."
The future "is completely dependent upon the youth," he said. "If they can pass the test of history itself, Indonesia will survive and become stronger. But if they can't, I don't see much of a future. I see only two choices ahead: one is that students achieve their goal of complete reformation of the Government or, if that doesn't work, the consequence could well be social revolution. If the latter were to happen, that would be the end of Indonesia as we know it."
Mr. Pramoedya, spends his days writing a diary and occasional articles, while collecting histories of prisoners whom the Dutch sent into exile in Irian Jaya, Indonesia's share of New Guinea. He is keeping a journal about this trip and his impressions of the United States. For years he held this country responsible for prolonging colonialism in Indonesia and interfering even after it ended.
"In general my intellectual opinions about the United States are pretty much what they once were," he said. "But this trip has given me the opportunity to balance my views, to fill out the picture. I find it such a pleasure to see so many ethnic groups, religions, people from all over the world being able to live here in harmony and peace," he said, after stops in Washington, Bennington, Vt., and Ithaca, N.Y., before arriving in Manhattan on Tuesday. "I am pleased to see police forces without the arrogance that is apparent in my own country." Not yet knowing about the criticism of police violence in New York recently, his general reaction to American police was positive.
"Indonesians seem to have a problem with power," he said. "They get just a little bit of it, even an ounce, and they go overboard."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pramoedya Ananta Toer, author of "This Earth of Mankind," "The Fugitive" and the new "Mute's Soliloquy," to be issued this week by Hyperion East. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E1); The writer Pramoedya Ananta Toer and his wife, Maimoenah Thamrin. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MUTE'S SOLILOQUY, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARRESTS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); HOUSE ARREST (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; PRAMOEDYA ANANTA TOER; SUHARTO

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



569 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Economist at Harvard Awarded Prize

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Andrei Shleifer, a Harvard University economist who immigrated to the United States from Russia when he was a teen-ager, has won the John Bates Clark Medal, the most prestigious prize in economics short of the Nobel. The medal, awarded every two years by the American Economic Association, goes to an outstanding economist under 40 years old.
Mr. Shleifer, who is 38, was honored for his empirical research into the workings of financial markets, commercial law and corporate securities, particularly in countries making the transition from socialism to a market economy. Some of his research has focused on Russia. 
 "Mr. Shleifer represents a continuation of the empirical tradition that really started with Lawrence Summers and continued through David Card and Kevin Murphy," said Dale Jorgenson, a Harvard economist and president-elect of the American Economic Association, which chose Mr. Shleifer at an executive board meeting in Chicago on Friday.
Mr. Summers, then of Harvard, Mr. Card at the University of California at Berkeley, and Mr. Murphy, at the University of Chicago, are the three previous Clark medalists -- Mr. Summers in 1993, Mr. Card in 1995 and Mr. Murphy in 1997. They are all prominent empiricists. Rather than focus on theory, they focus on what amounts to experiments that elaborate on existing theory, amend it or create new theory. Mr. Summers is now deputy director of the Treasury Department; Mr. Card and Mr. Murphy are labor economists. Mr. Shleifer won out over four or five others who had been considered by a selection committee, including Alan B. Krueger of Princeton University, who was the most prominent on the list.
Some of Mr. Shleifer's work elaborates on a theory developed by others that says it is impossible to write a contract between two parties -- whether they are two individuals or a corporation and its shareholders -- that covers all contingencies in a binding fashion. As a result, a strong court system is necessary to resolve disputes. Financial markets work best in countries with such a system, Mr. Shleifer has found. They do not work well, he maintains, in countries where parliaments have a bigger say, and politicians and powerful shareholders can influence legislation.
"This award to me is to some extent a recognition of how important finance is to economics and vice versa," Mr. Shleifer said yesterday.
In the discussion leading up to Mr. Shleifer's selection, the economic association's executive committee did not consider a conflict of interest case in which Mr. Shleifer was involved in 1997. "It was not even mentioned," Mr. Jorgenson said.
Mr. Shleifer had been a steward of a program financed by the United States Government to help Russia develop capital markets and new commercial and civil laws. The Harvard Institute for International Development ran the program under a $57 million contract from the United States Agency for International Development. AID canceled the contract in May 1997, contending that Mr. Shleifer and another official had benefited from private business dealings.
Mr. Shleifer was said to have invested in Russian securities while advising the Russian Government. He has never been formally charged with a misdeed, and he has denied any wrongdoing. He was dismissed, however, from the Harvard Institute, whose director is Jeffrey Sachs, also a Harvard economist. Asked about the announcement that Mr. Shleifer had won the Clark award, Mr. Sachs declined to comment.
Mr. Shleifer finished high school in Rochester, where he had settled with his parents after coming from Russia. He excelled in mathematics, which was his major as an undergraduate at Harvard University, but he became a research assistant to Mr. Summers, who drew him into economics. Mr. Shleifer earned his Ph.D. at M.I.T. in 1986 and five years later, at age 30, he was a full professor at Harvard. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; CLARK, JOHN BATES, MEDAL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); COMMERCIAL LAW (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; SHLEIFER, ANDREI LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



570 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Deutsche Telekom Seen As a Suitor for One 2 One
Deutsche Telekom, which is in the midst of an $80-billion-plus attempted merger with Telecom Italia, may also have its sights on a major mobile telephone acquisition in Britain.
People close to Telekom said it was interested in acquiring One 2 One, a joint venture between Cable and Wireless and Mediaone Group. One 2 One's parents put it up for sale last month, and the company has drawn intense interest throughout the European telecommunications industry. It is unclear whether Telekom has made a firm offer. Page C2. 

Global Crossing, the owner and operator of a worldwide fiber optic network designed for Internet transmissions, is expected to announce the acquisition today of the Global Marine unit of Cable and Wireless for $725 million in cash and $160 million in assumed debt. C15.
 
Sun to Introduce Network Product
Sun Microsystems plans to introduce software today that is designed for companies that want to let their employees use various devices to connect to corporate computer networks, secure from unauthorized access. With the system, workers could use desktop computers, laptops or even hand-held personal digital assistants to connect to the network. C9.
 
A New Tack on the Shipping News
The Journal of Commerce, which has provided a mix of trade policy analysis and coverage of the shipping industry, is changing its focus. It is jettisoning most of its policy coverage, all of its commodity price listings and 20 percent of its editorial staff and is devoting itself to "those who control the movement of goods," in the words of a recent editorial. It will also convert from a broadsheet to a tabloid format on June 1. The newspaper, led by its new editor, Peter Tirschwell, plans to move from its broader perspective to porthole-to-porthole coverage of an industry that has all the glamour of the industrial age at a time when the financial world is fixated on all things digital. C14.
 
Harvard Economist Wins Medal
Andrei Shleifer, a Harvard University economist who immigrated to the United States from Russia when he was a teen-ager, has won the John Bates Clark Medal, the most prestigious prize in economics short of the Nobel. The medal, awarded every two years by the American Economic Association, goes to an outstanding economist younger than 40. C2.
 
Governor Takes Lead on Internet
As the worlds of politics and high technology increasingly come together, James S. Gilmore 3d, the Governor of Virginia, would like to be at the nexus. In recent years, Virginia's high-technology economy has surged and Governor Gilmore, a Republican, has made Internet policy central to his 18-month stint in office. C4.
 
Dow Jones Plans Free Business Site
Dow Jones, which has already attracted 283,000 paid subscribers to The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition, is introducing dowjones.com, a free site for business users. The company is also preparing a Sunday section devoted to careers and personal finance, which will be offered to newspapers as a supplement to local business sections. C14.
 
Linking Real and Pretend Violence
Parents and consumer groups have sounded alarms for years about the effects that violent films, television and video games like Doom, left, are having on their children and society. The industry's response has consistently been indignant shock that anyone would think a movie or game could have a measurable effect on anyone. But a growing body of evidence suggests a connection between exposure to media violence, including video games, and increased aggression. Digital Commerce. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 10,689.67, up 195.78
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.60%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 119.41 yen, up 1.56

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (92%); DTE (BIT) (92%); TIT (BIT) (58%); TI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (92%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (85%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (72%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (67%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); JOINT VENTURES (56%); 

PERSON: JIM GILMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



571 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Syria Sneaks Iraq's Oil Out As Old Foes Become Friends

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: TADMOR, Syria

 BODY:
In a brazen violation of United Nations sanctions, scores of Syrian trucks laden with Iraqi oil now shuttle past this desert oasis every day, reflecting the ties that have turned the former foes into friends.
Until October 1997, the border between the two countries was closed, and sniping between top Syrian and Iraqi officials took place regularly. 
 But now trade between the two countries has blossomed. Some of it is authorized by the United Nations, under arrangements that allow Iraq to import limited quantities of goods. Some of it, like the oil-tanker traffic, is quite certainly not authorized.
The unauthorized deliveries have angered the United States and British Governments, which have asked the Syrian authorities to stop them, said diplomats based in Damascus, the Syrian capital. But the Syrians appear in no mood to do so, and some diplomats say they believe that the Syrian Government may play a role in distributing the oil once it reaches Damascus.
The scope of the operation could be plainly seen on a recent visit here, northeast of Damascus.
The town lies on a desert highway that has become a main thoroughfare for the illicit deliveries. The smuggling is so open that drivers regularly pull off the road at the Roman ruins of Palmyra here, in full view of the Syrian police.
Syria and Iraq have long been bitter enemies, with their ruling Baath parties divided by internecine rivalry.
In the early 1980's, when Iraq and Iran went to war, Syria sided with the Government of Iran and closed its border with Iraq. In the Persian Gulf war of 1991, Syrian troops and tanks were part of the American-led coalition that drove Iraqi forces from Kuwait.
But there has been an abrupt realignment in the last two years, with Syrian trade delegations visiting Iraq, and then with the reopening of the border.
Along with economic rewards, the warmer ties appear to have provided the two countries with important mutual political support. Syria, feeling slighted by the West for the hard line it has taken toward peace with Israel, has become a loud critic of recent American-led efforts to isolate Iraq.
As far as oil smuggling is concerned, the diplomats say, the operation clearly benefits both countries. It provides Iraq with a market to export oil beyond what the United Nations allows, and it gives Syria access to oil that it might otherwise have to import.
Like Iraq, Syria is also an exporter of oil. But it must import some oil products, most notably fuel oil and diesel. The diplomats say they do not know exactly what is being carried in the oil tankers, but a leading theory is that it is fuel oil, perhaps in a barter arrangement in exchange for Syrian goods.
The smuggling operation became apparent several months ago, when the tankers began to appear on Syrian highways, the Damascus-based diplomats say. They say that its volume appears to have increased in the last month and that hundreds of tankers each week now deliver oil to Syria from Iraq.
Of the three border crossings between the two countries, only one is monitored by United Nations inspectors, and their mandate allows them to search only shipments entering Iraq. Each crossing is staffed by Syrian military and intelligence personnel, but the diplomats say there is no evidence that they have tried to obstruct the oil shipments.
"When we raise the issue, the Syrians say, 'Well, it's a long border and we can't patrol every inch,' " a Western diplomat said. "But they clearly know what's going on, and some of us believe they're facilitating it."
In a prelude to the current operation, other diplomats said, large quantities of Iraqi fuel were being smuggled by way of Syria to buyers in Turkey shortly after the Iraqi-Syrian border was reopened. But that trade was halted when the Turkish Government began to intercept the deliveries at the Turkish border.
This time, the diplomats say, it appears that the Iraqi oil either is ending up in Syria, where it is sold or bartered to buyers who may include the Government, or is driven on to Lebanon, where Syria is the main power broker.
The diplomats say it is clear that the operation is more than profiteering and is being coordinated on both sides of the Iraqi-Syrian border.
As part of its warmer ties with Baghdad, Syria has said publicly that it intends to open a long-closed pipeline that would allow Iraq to ship its oil to Syrian ports on the Mediterranean, in addition to the pipeline that Iraq uses through Turkey. But Syria has said it would do so only if the United Nations approved such a step.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Syria highlighting Tadmor: A highway through Tadmor is now a smugglers' thoroughfare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); 

COUNTRY: SYRIA (98%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; SYRIA; ISRAEL; SYRIA (98%); IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SMUGGLING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BULK SHIPPING (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); DESERTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



572 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Study Suggests Repetition Gets Drug Warnings Across

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

 BODY:
Parents who talk to children about the risks of illicit drugs sometimes despair that their warning goes in one ear and out the other. But the message just might stick in a young brain if it is repeated enough, according to a study of parental and adolescent attitudes released today.
The study by the Partnership for a Drug-Free America, a nonprofit coalition, also reported a dramatic disconnection between parents and children in getting the message through. The study is being released at www.drugfreeamerica.org. 
 An overwhelming 98 percent of the parents in the study said they had talked with their children about drugs, but only 65 percent of teen-agers recalled having had such a conversation. And 27 percent of teen-agers said they learned a lot from their family about the hazards of drugs.
Not surprisingly, the study reported that the more adolescents heard from parents about the risks, the less likely they were to use drugs, even though some failed to heed the advice. Of the teen-agers in the study who said they had heard nothing at home about the risks of drugs, 45 percent said they had smoked marijuana within the last year. One-third of those who said they had learned a little at home used marijuana in the same period. But among teen-agers who said they had learned a lot, only 26 percent said they smoked marijuana, the drug of choice after alcohol and tobacco.
Comparable reductions were reported in the use of inhalants, hallucinogens like LSD and crack cocaine.
When parents hesitate to tell their children about drugs, said Stephen Dnistrian, executive vice president of the partnership, "We can make a pretty safe assumption that there is probably not a lot of communication between parent and child about a lot of things."
The latest Partnership Attitude Tracking Study, the 12th such study since 1987, was conducted last year by Audits and Surveys Worldwide, a market research firm based in New York. It sampled 6,852 teen-agers, ages 13 to 18; 2,358 children, 9 to 12, and 809 parents across the United States. The margin of error in the responses was 1.8 percentage points for teen-agers, 2.8 for pre-teen-agers and 3.9 for parents.
Though virtually all the parents said they raised the issue of drugs with their teen-agers, fewer than half, or 48 percent, said they had done so four or more times in the previous year.
Black parents were more likely than Hispanic or white parents to say they discussed the risks of drugs regularly with their children. Fifty-seven percent of black parents in the study said they did so, compared with 45 percent of Hispanic parents and 44 percent of white parents. And 31 percent of the black children in the study recalled having such conversations, compared with 29 percent of Hispanic children but only 19 percent of white children.
Many parents cannot seem to bring themselves to believe that their children might experiment with drugs. According to the study, 42 percent of the teen-agers said they had tried smoking marijuana, but only 14 percent of the parents thought this was possible. And 53 percent of teen-agers said they had been offered marijuana; 37 percent of the parents considered it likely.
The White House's director of national drug control policy, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, said the study made an important point about the disparity between perception and reality in parents' conversations with their children about the dangers of drugs. "Like a good teacher, they must check the feedback," he said.
General McCaffrey's Office of National Drug Control Policy defined as its first goal educating and enabling young people to reject illegal drugs, as well as alcohol and tobacco. Congress appropriated $195 million for a national campaign to sway an audience of 9- to 18-year-olds with prime-time commercials and print advertisements. The campaign, which began in July, also tries to persuade parents to confront the problem. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA GFK AG (53%); PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR A DRUG-FREE AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ADOLESCENTS (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); PARENTING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); CANNABIS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PARENTS (79%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COCAINE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S BARRY R MCCAFFREY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



573 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Little Urgency on the Eve Of World Bankers' Meeting

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
When the finance ministers and officials of the world's biggest economic powers last met in Washington six months ago, President Clinton declared that he and other leaders were confronting "the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half-century."
Now, on the eve of another such meeting, millions of people are still suffering, national economies are still shrinking, but the crisis seems oddly abated. 
 The crisis preoccupying Mr. Clinton and other leaders is in Kosovo, not the emerging markets. Fear of new forms of "economic contagion" has been replaced with far older fears of military contagion. Asia's slow recovery has moved it off the political radar screen, and even the continuing economic chaos in Russia and Indonesia seems far more contained than it did six months ago.
Without last year's sense of urgency, the chances of remaking the "global financial architecture" through fundamental changes -- the rallying call of meetings last fall -- have diminished considerably. But there have been some modest steps, including one today by the International Monetary Fund's executive board. As part of the agency's efforts to offer some way to prevent economic turbulence from spreading from country to country, the board approved a program for contingency credit, Michel Camdessus, its managing director, announced.
The program, first called for by Mr. Clinton last September, will allow the I.M.F. to offer a line of credit to any country determined to be following sound economic policies. The hope is that such support will deter speculators from attacking a nation's currency and will preserve investor confidence.
The Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, said that the I.M.F.'s action was a victory for Mr. Clinton's financial stability agenda and that the program would provide "an expanded capacity to help maintain confidence when countries face the threat of financial contagion."
An unresolved problem with the program is that the standard -- sound economic policies -- is likely to be hard for the most vulnerable nations to meet, while many eligible countries are less likely to be hit by contagion.
As the leaders of the I.M.F. and the World Bank, in Washington for their spring meetings, start occupying the hotel rooms abandoned today by NATO leaders, some officials insist that the biggest worry once again is the absence of fear itself.
"There is a real danger, which I sense already, that the pressure to reform is weakening around the world," James D. Wolfensohn, the president of World Bank, said this weekend. "There were a lot of powerful and wealthy interests who opposed reform, and they have been able to reassert themselves."
Mr. Clinton warned last week of the dangers of "complacency," endorsing an agenda of reforms spelled out the next day by Mr. Rubin. Those proposals, however, turned out to be modest at best: more disclosure rules to force countries, companies and hedge funds to make information about their financial health public, and some "voluntary guidelines" to try to prevent countries from taking huge financial risks.
To many experts, the package looked more like interior decorating than real architectural alterations. Mr. Rubin shied away, for example, from any proposals to control the flow of capital into or out of vulnerable countries, or to expand the powers of the I.M.F. to be a "lender of last resort" for stricken nations.
For some of the countries hardest hit by the economic crisis, notably Thailand and South Korea, a sense of optimism has replaced gloom. Though their economies will still shrink this year, their stock markets began rocketing back almost as soon as the last set of meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund ended in the fall.
By some measures, South Korea's market has returned to where it was before the crisis struck, and Hong Kong's has roared back to life. Brazil, which in January appeared to be the next domino to fall, has stumbled into unexpected stability.
While the good news has buoyed investors, it has also emboldened the leaders of huge businesses -- like South Korea's powerful industrial groups, the chaebols, which came to symbolize crony capitalism -- to resist real change.
"The crisis came about because of some misjudgments about the fragility of the system," said Jeffrey Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management, who had called for some tough reforms, including the creation of a global central bank, several months ago. "Now there is a feeling in the air that the system is more resilient, more capable of bouncing back fast, than anyone thought. When you put that together with vivid pictures out of Kosovo, you can see how quickly the political attention span can be diverted."
Some other reforms are under way. Countries already publish far more data than they did before the crisis first hit Thailand in July 1997. The I.M.F. posts some of its conclusions about member nations' debt and economic strategies on the Internet (at http://www.imf.org).
Armed with more information, investors are expected to be far more cautious. But questions remain as to whether the new disclosure policies have prompted the I.M.F. to be less open. "We are clearly less willing to publish something that could trigger investors to panic now that it's clear it may be immediately published," one senior official said recently.
Adding to the diminished sense of urgency is some new thinking that has emerged about crisis-racked nations like Russia and Indonesia: That after awhile, their troubles pose less of a threat to the rest of the world, not more.
Last summer the Clinton Administration scrambled to create a bailout package for Russia, fearing that an economic meltdown would destabilize President Boris N. Yeltsin, threaten economic reforms and perhaps lead to a political breakup.
While the I.M.F. is close to a new agreement to resume loans, it will probably give Russia only enough to pay back the monetary fund and other major debtors, averting the embarrassment of default.
"I would be surprised if Russia gets anything more than just a chance to muddle through the year," said one international official involved in the negotiations. "There is a sense that if you don't give them the money, it would be another sign of Russia's severed linkage with the West, which would put them more and more outside the system." Talk of resuming real economic reform, though, has dissipated.
Similarly, aid to Indonesia is on hold until after elections in June. While its economic woes remain severe, and violence continues around the country, American officials have concluded that the chances are now small that Indonesia's troubles will infect the rest of Asia.
"The new thinking is the old thinking," said Mr. Garten, who left the Clinton Administration for Yale after the President's first term. "And that is that since we still don't really understand many of the forces at work, we should leave a lot of this to the market." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WORLD BANK (61%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CURRENCY BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); CURRENCIES (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



574 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Clinton and Yeltsin Agree To Work Closely on Kosovo
President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia agreed in a telephone conversation to work closely together in the search for a solution to the conflict in Kosovo. They spoke as leaders of NATO concluded a summit meeting with pledges to intensify their air campaign against Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslav President. A1
 
NATO warplanes knocked Serbian television off the air again for several hours when they attacked large television transmission towers south of Belgrade. A10
 
Kosovo Update A10
 
Cult Protests in Beijing
More than 10,000 followers of a religious cult surrounded China's leadership compound, demanding recognition from authorities who are wary of any group not easily controlled. The gathering was the biggest protest in China since the one in Tiananmen Square in 1989. A1
 
India Headed for Elections
A week after the Hindu nationalist-led Government collapsed, India appears to be headed for its third general election in three years as the opposition's efforts to form a new government disintegrated. The Congress Party president, Sonia Gandhi, acknowledged that her first effort to lead the party back to power had failed. A6
 
Israeli Charged in Rabin Death
Israel charged a former undercover agent and right-wing radical with failing to prevent the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin by a Jewish hard-liner. A6
 
Venezuela Votes for Change
Venezuelans overwhelmingly approved a Government-backed proposal to convoke a national assembly to write a new constitution. The decision signals the disintegration of the political system that has been in place for more than 40 years. A9
 
I.M.F. Anti-Contagion Effort
The executive board of the International Monetary Fund approved a new program for contingency credit as part of the fund's efforts to offer some way to prevent economic turbulence from spreading from country to country. Finance ministers and officials of the world's biggest economic powers begin meetings today in Washington. A8
 
Attacks in Britain May Spread
The London police warned, after two nail-bomb attacks on racial minorities in the last eight days, that extreme right-wing groups may try to spread their campaign of race hatred to other parts of Britain. A9
 
Rising Violence in Timor
There has been a sharp increase in violence with the prospect of a peace agreement to the long separatist war in Indonesia. At least 14 and as many as 30 people died last weekend in the rampage through Dili by militias that oppose independence for east Timor. Many more are believed to have been killed in recent weeks. A3
 
NATIONAL A14-18
 
70,000 Attend Service For Victims in Colorado
A memorial service for the victims of the Columbine High School shootings drew 70,000 in Littleton, Colo., on a day when religious leaders across the nation tried to find meaning in a massacre that left 15 dead. A1
 
Organizations on both sides of the debate over gun control have sought to use the killings in Littleton to advance their legislative agendas or deflect those of opponents. At stake are proposals that could limit how guns are sold, or restrict the types of weapons for sale. A17
 
Rallying as Executioner Awaits
The list of those rallying to save the life of Manny Babbitt, whose execution by lethal injection is set for May 4 in California, is long and growing. But with a board scheduled to consider Mr. Babbitt's plea for clemency today, there are people equally passionate about sending him to his death. A15
 
Drug Warnings Bear Repeating
The more adolescents hear from parents about the risks of illicit drugs, the less likely they are to use such drugs, even though some fail to heed the advice, a study found. A14
 
Social Security On Hold
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, said Congress would not act this year to revitalize the Social Security system because President Clinton had failed to lead the way. A18
 
Musician Fatally Shot
The funk musician Roger Troutman, of the duo Roger & Zapp, was shot to death in Ohio, possibly by his brother in a murder-suicide, the police said. Mr. Troutman, 47, was found outside his recording studio in Dayton and died in surgery, the police said. His brother, Larry, 54, was found dead in a car a few blocks away with a gunshot wound to the head. A handgun was found inside the car, which matched the description of a car seen leaving the studio. (AP)
 
Recruiter Wins Hyundai Suit
A jury has ruled that a division of Hyundai Group of South Korea must pay $9.5 million to a corporate recruiter who said he was fired for refusing to discriminate against women and members of minority groups. The damages were awarded on Friday to Jeff Abraham, the owner of Technical Resources, who had sued Hyundai Semiconductor America. Hyundai said it would appeal. (AP)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Ambulance Service Faster, But Medical Gains in Doubt
Fire Department officials have begun to make good on some of the bold promises made during their aggressive campaign to seize control of New York City's Emergency Medical Service, three years after taking over the beleaguered ambulance system. The average response time for life-threatening situations has been cut by more than two minutes, but there is no hard evidence to show that more New Yorkers who suffer cardiac arrest are being saved. B1
 
Dim Chance Seen for Vouchers
Aides to Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said that Mayor Giuliani's revived plan for school vouchers would still need Board of Education approval, giving it little if any hope of succeeding. In announcing the plan on Thursday, Mr. Giuliani said the program would be run out of City Hall, apparently to defuse objections by Dr. Crew. B1
 
Fired Officer Sees Retaliation
A New York City police officer, Yvette Walton, claimed that she was dismissed in retaliation for testifying against the Street Crime Unit at a City Council hearing last Monday. Ms. Walton, who had been on probation, wore a hood in testifying that the unit was inhospitable to black and Hispanic officers and violated people's rights by searching them without justification. Police officials rejected Ms. Walton's claim that she had been fired because of the testimony, saying that they never knew that she was the officer behind the hood. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-8
 
Day for Yanks and DiMaggio
New York completed a three-game sweep of the Toronto Blue Jays, 4-3, on Joe DiMaggio Day. D1
 
OBITUARIES A19
 
Lord Killanin
The former president of the International Olympic Committee was 84. He led the committee from 1972 to 1980, as the Olympic movement was buffeted by political boycotts. A19
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Easing Internet Traffic Jams
Sandpiper Networks, a start-up company that has developed a way to speed the delivery of information on the Web, is expected to announce that America Online, the largest provider of Internet access, has made a small investment in the company and will incorporate Sandpiper's technology into its network. C1
 
Telekom Considers One 2 One
Deutsche Telekom, which is trying to merge with Telecom Italia for more than $80 billion, may also have its sights on buying a mobile telephone operator, One 2 One, in Britain. C2
 
Acquisition for Global Crossing
Global Crossing, which operates a worldwide fiber optic network designed for Internet transmissions, is expected to announce that it is acquiring the Global Marine subsidiary of Cable and Wireless of Britain. C15
 
Broadcom to Buy Epigram
Seeking to offer high-speed Internet links within homes, Broadcom said that it had agreed to acquire Epigram, a maker of microchips. C6
 
Sun to Offer Network Product
Sun Microsystems plans to introduce a software product today for companies that want to let their employees use various devices to connect to corporate computer networks, secure from unauthorized access. C9
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Liability for the millennium bug; they didn't live so long for this; Floyd Norris on merger accounting.
 
Columns: William Safire.
 
Bridge E7
TV Listings E7
Crossword E8
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); APPROVALS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); RELIGION (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); RACE & RACISM (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); SONIA GANDHI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



575 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: CULT'S FOLLOWERS RALLY IN BEIJING

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 25

 BODY:
More than 10,000 followers of a religious cult surrounded China's leadership compound today, demanding recognition from authorities who are wary of any group not easily controlled. It was the biggest protest here since the democracy movement in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
Coming as a complete surprise to the authorities, the protest drew followers from all over China. Eerily silent and devoid of banners or slogans, the protesters seemed to materialize out of nowhere, suddenly appearing in large numbers at the seat of Chinese power in the middle of the morning and remaining immovable all day long. 
 Displaying remarkably good organization and discipline, the demonstrators stayed motionless, calm and seated on the sidewalk while organizers communicated by mobile telephones. Many protesters apparently tried to use meditation to persuade leaders to see them in a more favorable light.
The cult, known as Buddhist Law, asserts that it has more than 100 million members in a country of 1.2 billion, the largest among hundreds of cults that have flourished in China in recent years as socialism evaporates as an ideology. Preaching good behavior to win salvation from an increasingly evil world that is headed for catastrophe, followers believe that they can cure illness and eviscerate wickedness from the world.
The cult's leader, Li Hongzhi, 48, moved to New York City two years ago under pressure from the authorities to restrict his activity.
Dressed in simple clothing, followers converged from many provinces of China, sitting on worn squares of cotton padding in long rows that stretched for nearly two miles along two sides of Zhongnanhai, the compound in central Beijing where China's leaders live and work.
The police, apparently eager to avoid a confrontation, did not force the protesters to move, and the gathering dispersed peacefully by 10 P.M.
 The protest came right in the middle of a most politically sensitive time, the 10th anniversary of the student movement that began in April, 1989, and just weeks before the anniversary of the crackdown in Tiananmen Square on June 4. China's leadership is already deeply concerned about the potential for social unrest as a wrenching transition to a market economy is throwing tens of millions out of work.
As China becomes a less regimented society -- with people confused over conflicting laws and regulations at the same time that jobs disappear as state-run industries close -- religious cults with mass followings like this one appear to pose a greater threat to social order than democracy advocates do.
 "The authorities can surgically take out political activist groups, but this is a whole new thing, far harder to control," said Robin Munro, a China scholar who researched Chinese political opposition groups for years as head of Asiawatch in Hong Kong. "Sects are inherently peaceful, but only become politicized, and then potentially explosive, when repressed."
Mindful of the strong role that secret societies played in the downfall of the last imperial dynasty, in 1911, China's leaders are juggling their need for social order with demands for greater religious freedom.
To many Chinese bewildered by a fast-changing society, perhaps the greatest appeal of a cult like Buddhist Law lies in its simplicity.
"What we stand for is good for the nation and good for society, so how can we threaten anyone?" said a 47-year-old woman in a worn green jacket who sat near the corner of Zhongnanhai. "They don't understand us. We want understanding."
Several other followers nodded in agreement as the woman spoke.
"We will stay as long as it takes," said a 52-year-old man in a tattered grey sweater. "A day, a week, a year. We are not in a hurry."
The protesters, wary of giving their names or talking in detail about their organization, said they were demanding a meeting with Prime Minister Zhu Rongji. In the late evening, as the protest dispersed, organizers announced to small groups that they had been promised a meeting with members of the State Council, China's Cabinet. The Government made no announcement, and state-run news media were conspicuously silent.
Buddhist Law is a sect of qigong, a traditional Chinese teaching that incorporates a broad range of healing techniques, martial arts and meditation. An overwhelming majority of Chinese believe in some form of qigong, while some join cults built on the teachings of a particular master, like Mr. Li.
The Communist Party denounces cults as superstitious remnants of an earlier age and asserts that many popular qigong masters fool followers with get-rich-quick schemes and fake medicine.
Many of the cult followers carried a book by Mr. Li. Buddhist Law, founded by Mr. Li in 1992, preaches that evil lurks in the modern appearance of rock and roll music, television, drugs and homosexuality. Although the group is vehemently opposed to modern science and technology, many members use the internet to spread its message.
"Your diseases will be eliminated directly by me," wrote Mr. Li in one of his five books, regarded by followers as sacred texts.
Mr. Li's teachings echo ancient Chinese civilization, asserting the power of healing by using qigong to tap into a person's "inner energy." The cult also uses the Buddhist notion of karma, which holds that people's good and bad deeds determine their fate in the next life.
The origin of today's protest apparently lay in a recent article in an obscure academic journal in the coastal city of Tianjin that warned of the dangers posed by cults in China. Several protesters said they were deeply offended by the article and that a dozen followers were arrested in Tianjin last week after a protest there.
Last year, after Beijing Television broadcast a program critical of Buddhist Law, organizers engineered a protest outside the television station. Two employees of the station were later said to have been dismissed for inaccuracies in the broadcast.
Buddhist Law has apparently earned tens of millions of dollars by selling Mr. Li's books and videotapes of his preachings, meditation cushions and his pictures. But the full size and scope of the operation remains unknown.
The organization, secretive about its operations, has a network of support in the United States, and the followers say that many Communists,senior officials and police officers are among its members.
Mr. Li, who asserts that he has a higher spiritual authority than Jesus, Mohammed or Buddha, teaches that he was sent to earth by a "supreme being" to save mankind from moral corruption caused by consumerism, modern science and technology.
Chinese society has disintegrated so far, Mr. Li contends, that many humans are reincarnated as demons, some of them disguised as monks.
Competing for followers with other cults, Mr. Li has denounced other qigong masters as "possessed with foxes or yellow weasels, and some with snakes."
At today's protest, followers extolled the virtues of their cult.
"I am a better father and husband and citizen," said a 48-year-old man who came from Hebei Province, and said he had been a member of Buddhist Law for six years. "We are making a better society.
"I don't get sick anymore," the man continued. "If everyone is healthy, it will save medical costs and be good for society as a whole."
Today's protest, populated mostly by people from outside the capital, elicited much fascination but limited sympathy from Beijing residents.
"They're crazy," said Li Xiaoming, 27, who works for a transport company. "But there are a lot of them, so the government has to listen."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buddhist Law, a religious cult, held a protest in Beijing yesterday to demand recognition from authorities. The 10,000 demonstrators surrounded Zhongnanhai, the compound where China's leaders live and work. (Associated Press)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT)

ORGANIZATION: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGIOUS CULTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (96%); CULTS & SECTS (94%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDITATION (78%); RIOTS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); POLITICS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); 

PERSON: LI HONGZHI; FAISON, SETH LI HONGZHI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



576 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: 80% of Vote Reported to Back Rewrite of Venezuela's Charter

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, April 25

 BODY:
Venezuelans today overwhelmingly approved a Government-backed proposal to convoke a national assembly to write a new constitution. The decision signals the disintegration of the political system that has been in place here for more than 40 years.
Less than half of 11 million eligible voters took part in the referendum, called by President Hugo Chavez as part of his plan to install what he calls "a true participatory democracy" in this oil-producing South American country. That immediately led opposition leaders to question the legitimacy of the nearly complete official results, in which more than 80 percent of those who cast ballots favored a new constitution on the President's terms. 
 Nevertheless, the outcome of today's vote, combined with the passage on Thursday of a special "enabling" law that allows Mr. Chavez, a 44-year-old former Army paratrooper, to rule by decree on economic matters, significantly strengthens the position of Venezuela's new leader. His supporters said that was exactly what this country, which has become the principal supplier of oil to the United States in recent years, requires.
"We need to untie the hands of our President and give him the powers he needs so that he can really govern and make the changes Venezuela needs," Pureza Duenas, a 47-year-old nurse, said as she waited to vote this morning. "He can't do that in this fake democracy we have, in which a bunch of corrupt politicians use a flawed constitution to hold him in check."
But opponents of the proposal have expressed concern at Mr. Chavez's behavior since he took office in February, seven years after leading a violent but unsuccessful coup attempt.
That conduct has included making threats to declare a state of emergency that would give him enhanced powers, expanding the military's role and announcing that he intends to seek a second consecutive five-year term of office, something the current Charter prohibits.
"The President is right in wanting to correct the many shortcomings in our institutions, but no single person should be given absolute power," said Luz Marina Rondon, a 42-year-old engineer.
"We need gradual change, not a radical change, and it needs to be carried out within the existing system so that the economy and stability of the country are not damaged."
Because the attributes and powers of the Constitutional Assembly have not been clearly detailed, political turbulence seems likely to increase, not diminish, as a result of today's vote. Last month, for instance, the Supreme Court ruled that the assembly will not have the power to dissolve Congress or the court system, as Mr. Chavez had originally proposed.
Mr. Chavez has given strong indications, including during a victory speech tonight, that he intends to defy the ruling, which he dismissed last week as meaningless. "It would be the same as me decreeing that the sun will not rise in the morning," he said last week.
Under the procedures approved by voters today, the Constitutional Assembly will consist of 131 members to be chosen in a special election, likely to be held late next month, in which candidates apparently will not be allowed to run under party banners.
Counting from the day it is sworn in, which Mr. Chavez suggests should be July 5, Venezuela's Independence Day, the panel will have six months to draw up a new charter, which will then be put to a popular vote. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSTITUTIONAL ASSEMBLY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSTITUTIONAL ASSEMBLY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA; VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); COUPS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY HUGO CHAVEZ (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



577 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: New York Teachers Have a Pretty Good Deal

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Deputy Mayor Randy L. Levine is right in saying that any future salary increases for New York City employees should come only in exchange for greater employee productivity (news article, April 21). 
 In contrast, Randi Weingarten, the United Federation of Teachers president, asserts that teachers and other city workers have not been "partners in prosperity," with labor leaders emphasizing the two years in which there were no base pay increases.
In fact, over the contract's five-year span, the salary of a teacher who started in September 1995 will increase 22 percent, while the salary of a teacher with a master's degree and three years' experience will increase 41 percent.
This certainly compares favorably with a projected 12 percent total inflation over the life of the contract.
 
DIANA FORTUNA
Pres., Citizens Budget Commission
New York, April 22, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS BUDGET COMMISSION UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; PRODUCTIVITY TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); 

PERSON: FORTUNA, DIANA; LEVINE, RANDY L (DEPUTY MAYOR) RANDY L LEVINE (60%); DIANA FORTUNA (55%); RANDI WEINGARTEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



578 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE EMBARGO;
Setting Up a Blockade Is Simple, but the Risks Are Many

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
The mechanics of imposing an oil embargo against Yugoslavia enforced by NATO warships plying the Adriatic Sea should be fairly straight-forward, military officials said today. The legal, political and diplomatic risks are far greater, particularly with Russia, which has furiously denounced the plan and thus raised the specter of clashes at sea.
Between 1992 and 1996, allied vessels carried out such a ban on arms to all six republics of the old Yugoslavia in the same Adriatic waters. Some 6,000 ships were boarded and inspected, and only six were caught trying to smuggle weapons. Arms shipments overland still found their way into the hands of the warring factions -- as did oil shipments to Serbia and Montenegro, despite comprehensive United Nations sanctions that virtually barred all foreign trade with the oil-starved republics. 
 But the ban on oil shipments to Yugoslavia that NATO has now authorized is trickier to enforce. And stopping oil tankers from countries not party to the agreement, like Russia, is an expansion of the monthlong war with Yugoslavia.
NATO Secretary General Javier Solana today sought to dismiss the Russian threats of war with a verbal wave: "The Russians, every now and then, they make phrases which go a little bit beyond where they should go."
Just as forcefully, Mr. Solana said on ABC's "This Week" program that Gen. Wesley K. Clark, NATO's military commander, was writing a draft plan that considers "all the possibilities so that the embargo can be guaranteed not only by NATO and NATO-friendly countries, but also for others. If it's an embargo, it will apply to everybody."
The goal of the embargo is to dry up the flow of oil into ports on the coast of Montenegro, the small republic that supplies its only partner in Yugoslavia, the far larger Serbia. The blockade could further undermine the democratic government in Montenegro by introducing more tensions into its relations with Serbia. NATO has also ordered heavier air strikes against overland roads, pipelines and railroads that carry the fuel to Serbia. "Without oil, the Yugoslav military machine will come to a halt and very quickly," said the NATO spokesman, Jamie P. Shea.
Indeed, NATO officials say that with Serbia's two main refineries knocked out of operation, Yugoslav military officials are so desperate for fuel that they are siphoning gas out of abandoned cars belonging to refugees, and using it for tanks and other vehicles.
American intelligence analysts estimate that Montenegrin ports have unloaded 40,000 to 45,000 metric tons, or about 300,000 barrels, of oil in the past month, undercutting the air campaign's goal to cut off Belgrade's ability to resupply the 40,000 Yugoslav troops in Kosovo who are expelling ethnic Albanians and destroying their villages.
France and Italy, in particular, have raised questions about the legal justification for mounting a blockade against third-party countries, as distinct from an embargo restricting only shipments from cooperating nations. Mr. Solana's scenario would cover countries that do not belong to NATO or the European Union, like Russia and Ukraine, whose tankers have unloaded oil in Montenegrin ports since the air war started on March 24.
"If we make the choice of a blockade, then we have to recognize we risk war with a third party who hasn't agreed to the blockade," said one French diplomat. "For that you need a U.N. mandate."
The Italian Prime Minister, Massimo D'Alema, explained to Italian journalists today that the embargo can be carried out with on-board searches and inspections. But a blockade, as such, does not exist, he said.
And Norway's Foreign Minister, Knut Vollebaek, said in an interview, "As for third parties, we would like to see a U.N. Security Council resolution in order to make this binding."
But a senior Pentagon official said that while there may not be a specific Security Council resolution authorizing the ban, "the laws of armed conflict" justify such an embargo.
Mr. Shea acknowledges that "there would have to be a political discussion as to who is covered by such a regime." And Mr. Solana, in his closing briefing today, made light of objections to the embargo, asserting that all 19 members will be in agreement on General Clark's draft plan. The North Atlantic Council, NATO's political arm, is expected to review that plan this week, military officials said.
As outlined now, American and other NATO officials said, the embargo would not try to exclude all ships from Yugoslav ports. Instead, NATO would create a kind of seaborne police force to check manifests and board selected ships to investigate cargo.
Ships caught carrying contraband oil would be turned back or diverted to other ports, but NATO military officials said the legal consequences of interdictions have not been worked out. "There are some legal questions that have to be answered," the Dutch Defense Minister, Frank de Grave, said in an interview.
Other military experts said the issue could be rendered moot simply by the stated purpose of the naval armada. "The very presence of NATO ships would be a deterrent, and would induce ships to go back," Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who heads the Armed Services Committee, said in an interview.
"We cannot tell our pilots to fly high-risk missions against petroleum storage facilities in Yugoslavia, and then let this other oil creep in through the back door," said Senator Warner, a former Secretary of the Navy.
At General Clark's headquarters outside of Brussels, top aides are pouring over the details of the operation. Military officials said they must define where the NATO interdiction force will operate in the Adriatic and Ionian seas.
General Clark must also determine how many ships, helicopters and surveillance planes, like the United States Navy P-3's, the operation will need. Navy officers said that a dozen ships, rotating duty, would likely be sufficient. Eight NATO ships are assigned to the region now.
A delicate part of the mission would be the actual rules of engagement. Once NATO affirms a specific plan, a notice would go out to all international mariners with the rules. NATO warships would likely establish checkpoints off the Montenegrin coast for checking vessels.
If ships were suspected of carrying contraband, they would be boarded and inspected. Allied ships could fire on any vessels that refused to comply, first as a warning, and then to disable violators. Navy officers say there are also nonlethal means of stopping a rogue tanker dead in its tracks, including devices that would entangle a ship's screw or rudder.
"In a tactical sense," Adm. Luc Kroon, the Dutch chief of defense staff, said in interview, "it's no problem to execute this." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; FRANCE; ITALY; SERBIA (95%); MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); KOSOVO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SMUGGLING (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); REFUGEES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); BULK SHIPPING (58%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC JAVIER SOLANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



579 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
Clinton and Yeltsin Agree to Share Ideas on Kosovo

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25

 BODY:
President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia agreed in a telephone conversation today to work closely together in the search for a solution to the conflict in Kosovo. They spoke as leaders of NATO concluded a summit meeting with pledges to intensify their air campaign against Slobodan Milosevic.
White House officials said Mr. Yeltsin initiated the call and asked Mr. Clinton to place the next one after doing "some thinking." 
 The Russian leader's thoughts were not fully clarified in the 90-minute conversation, the officials said. But after the call they said that Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott planned to leave for Moscow on Monday to consult with Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Yeltsin's envoy to the Balkans.
The three-day NATO summit meeting, originally called to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the alliance but largely overshadowed by Kosovo, concluded with bold expressions of solidarity in the struggle to halt the Yugoslav President's assault on Albanians in Kosovo.
"What NATO did here this weekend was to reaffirm our commitment to a common future rooted in common humanity," Mr. Clinton said in his closing statement. "Standing against ethnic cleansing is both a moral imperative and a practical necessity."
The leaders went away declaring they would succeed against Mr. Milosevic by sticking to their original strategy of an air campaign. They vowed to escalate the attacks and expand the targets.
But they acknowledged that they did not know how long the air campaign would take to reach their goal of "degrading" Mr. Milosevic's military forces in Kosovo and making him capitulate.
The British Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, declared that NATO would continue "for as long as it takes."
 The air campaign went into its 33d night late Sunday. The Associated Press reported that the official news agency Tanjug said explosions rocked the northern Serbian city of Novi Sad and destroyed the last remaining of three bridges over the Danube.
 Tanjug said a fuel depot was targeted near the central Serbian town of Valjevo early on Monday, Belgrade time. Nine NATO missiles also hit an airport in Sombor on the border with Hungary, Belgrade's Studio B radio reported, the A.P. said.
The summit meeting had opened with talk about when and how ground troops might enter Kosovo. But by the end the talk faded away, a casualty of opposition within the Clinton Administration and a recognition that the stability of several European governments, especially Germany and Italy, would be shaken by open discussion of ground troops.
Reaffirming the primacy of the air assaults, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said: "What I think has really come out of this session here at the summit is a really genuine support for an intensified air campaign."
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany said: "It's not going to be easy. It's going to take longer than we would have originally hoped for, but we shall win."
But behind the tough public statements, aides to European leaders said there was an acute awareness that the escalation of the air strikes had to bring better results soon. Public support in NATO countries could easily erode if the war drags on, they said.
Further, if the alliance wanted to get the more than 500,000 ethnic Albanian refugees now camped in Albania and Macedonia back into Kosovo before the onset of winter, the military campaign against the Serbs in Kosovo had to speed up, several European officials said.
But at the same time that the alliance was stressing military victory, NATO leaders were also trying to find a diplomatic track.
Speaking about Mr. Yeltsin's telephone conversation with Mr. Clinton, White House officials described Russia's efforts to deal with the Serbs as being in "good faith." They said that Mr. Talbott would try to learn more about what Mr. Chernomyrdin had accomplished in Belgrade during a visit there last week with Mr. Milosevic.
"The President made the point to Yeltsin strongly that he very much wants to keep the lines of communication open at the highest level," said Joe Lockhart, the White House spokesman.
During the telephone conversation, the Russian President described some of the elements of a possible peace deal that Mr. Chernomyrdin brought back from Belgrade, according to a White House official who listened to the call.
"Yeltsin told us there was a commitment from the Serbs to allow the return of the refugees and for the Serbs to withdraw their forces from Kosovo," he said.
But there was "not a great deal of clarity" on what the withdrawal of Serbian forces meant. On another key point, Mr. Yeltsin said that Mr. Milosevic had agreed to the deployment of an "international presence" run by the United Nations with Russia as a key element. It was also not clear whether the "presence" meant inclusion of police, armed observers or soldiers, the White House official said.
The deal described by Mr. Yeltsin fell far short of the five principles that NATO had laid down as the basis for an agreement, the White House aide said. They include an international military force, with NATO at its core, that would escort the ethnic Albanian refugees home once the conflict was over.
An important task for Mr. Talbott is to try to determine from Mr. Chernomyrdin how much Mr. Milosevic is "hurting" from the air strikes, the White House aide said. This was a key factor in figuring out how far the Yugoslav leader is from accepting a diplomatic solution on NATO's terms.
Other NATO leaders also stressed the need for Russia's help in finding a solution.
The German Chancellor said he was meeting with the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, in Berlin this week to talk about a Kosovo solution and that he understood Mr. Annan will then fly on to Moscow.
"I invite the Russians to resume their role in putting pressure on the Serb side to come to a political solution of the conflict," Mr. Schroder said today. Mr. Annan was on the verge of appointing a personal envoy for the Kosovo conflict, and Austrian officials said it would probably be Franz Vranitsky, the former Austrian Chancellor.
In Belgrade, a member of the Milosevic Government, Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Draskovic, said Russia and NATO could come to an agreement at the United Nations soon, and urged his Government to accept it.
As it had during the first two days of the summit meeting, the Kosovo conflict served as the constant current on the last day.
At a special session devoted this morning to the seven states that surround Serbia, President Clinton praised Albania and Macedonia for bearing the burden of more than 500,000 ethnic Albanian refugees expelled into their countries by Mr. Milosevic.
"The people of Albania and Macedonia have welcomed almost a half a million refugees to their countries -- often, literally, into their homes," President Clinton said. "You have shared what you have, through the strains are immense."
The well-being of all Europe, Mr. Clinton said, rested on the ability of NATO and other Western organizations to rebuild southeastern Europe. After the the Kosovo conflict ends, the region should aim for similar democratic and economic standards as Western Europe has, he said.
There were few details about how this would be accomplished, although several countries in the region called today for measures on the scale of the Marshall Plan. In Mr. Clinton's closing remarks this afternoon, he tied together the idea of a new Europe with the conflict in Kosovo and its refugees.
"Our vision of a Europe undivided, democratic, free and at peace depends upon our constructive commitment to the hundreds of thousands of poor refugees, so many men, women and children with no place else to turn, who have been made pawns in a power struggle," he said.
The delegations of all 19 countries included defense ministers. In interviews today, half a dozen of the ministers said an important outcome of the summit meeting was the decision to step up the air campaign with a goal of turning the Serbian people against their leader.
"People are looking at how their positions will be after this is all over," said Hans Haekkerup, the Defense Minister of Denmark. "People are not going to believe in this myth of Milosevic much longer."
The summit meeting's communique embraced the idea that NATO remained open to new members but did not give a timetable for when they could join.
The communique listed groups of possible new members. In the first group were Romania and Slovenia, which almost made it into NATO in 1997 when Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland were selected as new entrants.
In the second group, the communique listed the Baltic states Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Bulgaria and Slovakia were listed together for "positive developments," a reference to their moves toward democratic standards. And finally, Albania and Macedonia, which are bearing the burden of the ethnic Albanian refugees but have little hope of meeting NATO's standards, were listed as long-shot contenders.
The Macedonia President, Kiro Gligorov, criticized NATO for not extending an invitation to his country to join NATO and showing little appreciation for Macedonia's efforts with the refugees. "Macedonia has been circumvented and has again been put in last place," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Samuel R. Berger, national security adviser, closed the NATO celebration yesterday with a news briefing. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S BILL CLINTON (93%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999



580 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW;
They Call It the Blues, but They Sure Look Like They're Having a Ball

 BODY:
"It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues," which opened for a limited run at the New Victory Theater in Times Square on March 26, has reopened at the Vivian Beaumont Theater in Lincoln Center. Following are excerpts from Lawrence Van Gelder's review, published on April 1.
Looking for a sure cure for the blues? Just latch on to a ticket for "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues." 
 Now that title bears some parsing because this rich, evocative, rousing show, with some 50 musical numbers ranging from African chants and spirituals to Delta and Chicago blues, with plenty of stops along the dusty roads, river banks, broken country hearts and juke joints in between, is more than a musical feast.
Besides its cornucopia of splendidly interpreted song, "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues" is a potent blend of visual eloquence and historical sweep that engages the eye and touches the heart while its songs soothe the ear, occasionally work mischief on the funny bone and always raise the spirits.
As the splendid cast assembled by the much-praised Crossroads Theater Company of New Brunswick, N.J., applies its individual and collective vocal, musical and acting talents to songs like "I've Been Living With the Blues," "Blues Man" and "St. Louis Blues," photographs projected onto screens behind the performers brim with history.
Here are sketches of slave auctions and pictures of thirsty women working the fields with their little children nearby, a black man dangling from a lyncher's noose, rural poverty, country churches, the great blues man Robert Johnson and changing fashions in clothes and entertainment, as well as the economic, social and cultural upheaval surrounding the great black migration from the South to Chicago.
"It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues" is based on an idea by Ron Taylor, who wrote it with Randal Myler, its director, and Lita Gaithers, Charles Bevel and Dan Wheetman.
Mr. Taylor, Mr. Bevel and Mr. Wheetman, with Gretha Boston, Carter Calvert, Eloise Laws and Gregory Porter, constitute the powerhouse lineup of singers who step up, step out and put over one number after another. Depending on the song, they can be heartbreakers, heartbroken, sexpots or absolute rapscallions. And after intermission, when they trade their simple attire, rustic airs and simple instruments for shapely gowns and stylish suits, each seems good-naturedly determined to outdo another as they make their way with the backing of an enhanced band through pieces like "I'm Your Hoochie-Coochie Man," the sly, slinky, humorous "Crawlin' King Snake," "Walkin' After Midnight," the bitter "Strange Fruit" and "Let the Good Times Roll."
By this time the band is making the floor vibrate, and the cast and audience are raising the roof. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IT AIN'T NOTHIN' BUT THE BLUES (REVUE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS BLUES (86%); ST LOUIS BLUES (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS BLUES (86%); ST LOUIS BLUES (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (92%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



581 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Kosovo Strategies

 BODY:
Like President Kennedy's naval quarantine of Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis, NATO's planned embargo on oil shipments to Serbia is not called a blockade by diplomats, for fear that term of war could widen the conflict. But the intent is clear -- use a naval armada in the Adriatic Sea to deny Slobodan Milosevic's forces the fuel they need to operate in Kosovo. If executed with a healthy regard for Russian sensibilities, it can sap Serbian strength and speed the way to a political settlement.
As the war in Yugoslavia enters its second month, NATO is searching for a combination of force and diplomacy that will induce Mr. Milosevic to reach for a peace deal. Last weekend's NATO summit meeting in Washington endorsed several potentially productive steps in that direction, including the naval action, intensification of the air war and a subtle but significant shift in the alliance's conditions for a cease-fire. All of these can support a critical round of diplomacy that will begin today in Moscow, where Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott will meet with Russian leaders. 
 The interdiction of oil tankers will not cut off petroleum supplies to Serbia. Smugglers will be eager to collect the premium fees that come with running a blockade, and some overland shipments are likely to continue. But after bombing Serbian refineries, it would be a mistake not to try to limit the flow of oil through Yugoslav ports.
Russia has been sending oil to Serbia, and NATO must work with Moscow to avoid a confrontation with tankers carrying Russian fuel. The alliance cannot afford to provoke military tensions with Russia or drive the Kremlin from the peacemaking role that Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said yesterday his country is now playing. The best way to avoid either possibility is to persuade the Russians not to send further shipments to Serbia. The subject should be on Mr. Talbott's agenda.
Though Mr. Ivanov made clear in an interview that NATO and Mr. Milosevic remain far apart on peace terms, Mr. Talbott is carrying an important concession from the alliance. NATO is now prepared to suspend bombing when Serbian forces begin to leave Kosovo, rather than waiting for a withdrawal to be completed. NATO also signaled some flexibility over the weekend about the composition and command of an international peacekeeping force in Kosovo, saying it would seek a United Nations Security Council mandate for the troops. That would require Russian assent.
It is unfortunate that the NATO meeting dodged whether to start assembling ground forces in the Balkans to keep open the option of a land campaign. The additional pressure might help move Mr. Milosevic. For now, the best strategy is to press ahead with bombing, organize the blockade and be imaginative in the pursuit of diplomacy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PEACE PROCESS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



582 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

 BODY:

ASIA
 
CHINA: TRADE MEMBERSHIP TALKS -- China and the U.S. extended talks in Beijing over China's proposed entry into the World Trade Organization. Working to preserve momentum that almost sealed a deal during Prime Minister Zhu Rongji's trip to the U.S. earlier this month, American negotiators delayed a scheduled departure on Sunday and met again yesterday. The organization's Director-General, Renato Ruggiero, said he believed that China would join before November. Seth Faison (NYT)
 
CHINA: DISSIDENT ON TRIAL -- A prominent dissident, Fang Jue, went on trial on fraud charges that human rights organizations say were fabricated. The trial, delayed so it would not coincide with Prime Minister Zhu Rongji's American trip, went into recess after four hours. Mr. Fang, 44, was arrested after he called for elections at all levels of government. Seth Faison (NYT) 

THE PHILIPPINES: PEACE TALKS REJECTED -- Communist rebels rejected an offer by President Joseph Estrada to resume talks following the release of the last of five hostages the rebels had been holding since February. A rebel spokesman said conditions demanded by the President showed that he was not sincere about negotiations. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
SOUTH KOREA: SUBWAY STRIKE ENDS -- Subway workers in Seoul ended an eight-day strike called to protest layoffs, even though the Government met none of their demands. The development dealt a serious blow to plans by the militant Korean Confederation of Trade Unions to escalate protests over layoffs in bloated private and Government-owned industries. (AP)

THE AMERICAS
 
VENEZUELA: PRESIDENT'S POWER EXPANDED -- President Hugo Chavez approved a special "enabling law" that will allow him to rule by decree on economic and social matters for the next six months. He had rejected an earlier version of the bill three weeks ago, saying it imposed too many restrictions on him, and then threatened to dissolve Congress if it did not make the revisions he wanted. The new, more sweeping version of the law also raises the value-added tax and places a new levy on financial transactions. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
MEXICO: FIGHTING OVER LICENSE PLATES -- Gov. Patricio Martinez of Chihuahua is locked in a battle with federal authorities over the provisional license plates his government has issued to thousands of automobiles imported illegally from the United States. Treasury officials fear that the provisional plates extend a measure of legality to the illegal cars and encourage smugglers to import more vehicles without paying taxes. Mr. Martinez, who is from President Ernesto Zedillo's governing party, says federal authorities do not respect the needs of Mexico's 31 states. Sam Dillon (NYT)

URUGUAY: PRIMARY RESULTS -- The ruling Colorado Party and the country's left-wing opposition leader, Tabare Vazquez, both emerged strengthened by primaries on Sunday to choose presidential candidates for October. More than 37 percent of those who voted in the party primaries took part in the centrist Colorado Party's contest, which was won by Sen. Jorge Batlle, according to Interior Ministry figures. Another 30.5 percent voted in the leftist Progressive Encounter primary, which was won easily by Mr. Vazquez, a former Mayor of Montevideo. (Reuters)
 
ARGENTINA: SEEKING NAZI GOLD -- A panel investigating Argentina's links to Nazi Germany said it believed that it has proof that the country's central bank held Nazi gold after World War II. Ignacio Klich of the Committee to Clarify Nazi Activities said the panel had unearthed a letter signed by Juan Bramuglia, Foreign Minister under Gen. Juan D. Peron, in which Mr. Bramuglia said he asked Swiss officials in 1946 to deposit gold they had held for the German Embassy in the central bank. Mr. Klich said the letter did not specify the amount. (Reuters)
 
EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: FINANCIER FACES CHARGES Prosecutors reinstated charges against Boris Berezovsky, the former aide to President Boris N. Yeltsin who has become something of a symbol of capitalist excess since Russia's economic bubble burst last August. Mr. Berezovsky, who voluntarily returned from France to be interrogated, was accused of money-laundering, illegal business activities and conducting business while holding a state job. He called the charges a sham promoted by Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, whom he has frequently attacked. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
ITALY: 2 POLITICIANS HELD -- Stefano Cusumano, a treasury undersecretary, and Giuseppe Castiglione, a regional councilman in Sicily, were arrested on charges of corruption and abetting the Mafia, the police in Sicily said. The two men were members of a small center-right party, U.D.R., which is part of Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema's coalition. They were arrested in an investigation of bribery in the construction of a new hospital in Catania, Sicily. Alessandra Stanley (NYT)
 
THE NETHERLANDS: SHOOTING AT SOCCER RIOT -- Soccer fans may have returned police gunfire during rioting in Rotterdam on Sunday night that left 16 people injured and one man in critical condition, Dutch officials said yesterday. The violence erupted as tens of thousands of Feyenoord supporters were hailing their team's victory in the national league championship. (AP)
 
BRITAIN: BOMBERS SOUGHT -- Home Secretary Jack Straw told Parliament that tracking down the bombers who have exploded nail bombs in two London areas with large black and Asian populations in the last two weeks was the top priority of Scotland Yard. The White Wolves, a previously unknown offshoot of the neo-Nazi group Combat 18, are the prime suspects, Mr. Straw said. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAQ: U.N. WORKER SLAIN -- -- A New Zealander working for the U.N. mine-clearing program in northern Iraq was shot dead on Saturday near the airport in Irbil, 200 miles north of Baghdad, a U.N. spokesman said yesterday in New York. "The victim was killed almost instantly when an unknown assailant who had asked for some water a few minutes earlier shot him three times at close range," a spokesman said. The victim was identified by New Zealand officials as Nicholas Geoffrey Speight, 32. (AP)
 
EGYPT: MILITANTS FREED -- The Egyptian authorities have released hundreds of members of the militant Islamic Group, said Montasser al-Zayat, a lawyer for the group. The Islamic Group announced on March 25 that it would lay down its arms, the lawyer said. Thousands of suspected members of the group remain in jail. Douglas Jehl (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
GHANA: ASHANTI RULER INSTALLED -- Nana Kwaku Dua, a 49-year-old accountant and businessman who was chosen as the Ashanti King on April 1, was formally installed in a traditional ceremony in the city of Kumasi. He is the 16th occupant of the Golden Stool, the symbol of his authority, succeeding Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, who died at 79 on Feb. 25. Thousands of people watched as the new ruler, known as the Asantehene, was carried through the streets of the city with dozens of royal guards carrying primitive guns in attendance. (Reuters)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: PARTY MEETING DISRUPTED -- A group of young hecklers disrupted a New National Party meeting in the town of Nystroom, saying they were protesting the presence of blacks in the party. The New National Party -- formerly called the National Party -- which brought apartheid to South Africa during more than 40 years in power, has been trying to broaden its appeal. But recent polls show that it is loosing support, even among whites. Suzanne Daley (NYT)
 
ALGERIA: PROTESTS BANNED -- Algerian riot policemen were deployed in Algiers to enforce a ban on protests on the eve of the swearing-in ceremony for the country's new President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika. Opposition leaders accused the authorities of threatening people who are angry over the April 15 election, which they say was rigged. (AP)
 
SIERRA LEONE: CEASE-FIRE PROPOSED -- The rebel leader, Foday Sankoh, offered a cease-fire after he met with President Gnassingbe Eyadema of Togo, who is leading a mediation effort to end Sierra Leone's long civil war. Mr. Sankoh is under a death sentence in Freetown but was flown from prison more than a week ago to consult with his commanders on ways to end the conflict. The consultations coincided with a big push by the Nigerian-led West African intervention force against rebel strongholds. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STRIKES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); TAX LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SMUGGLING (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); ARRESTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); VALUE ADDED TAX (65%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



583 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Time Warner To Shut Down Its Pathfinder Site on the Web

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
In a move that symbolizes a passage from the early experimental era of the World Wide Web to a mature publishing platform, Time Warner will shut down Pathfinder, its pioneering outpost in cyberspace.
During the last five years the company's Time Inc. unit has lumped together all of its magazines, including Time, Fortune, Money and Entertainment Weekly, in Pathfinder, a single, huge Web site. 
 The site will be phased out over the next six months, to be replaced by so-called hub sites that combine related magazines, features and links with the Web sites of other Time Warner properties like CNN, CNNfn and other information and entertainment properties. Each new hub will go after a more precisely targeted audience.
The magazines will retain their individual home pages.
"This is an evolution, and it follows the way consumers have been using our sites," said Jeffrey Coomes, vice president of marketing at Time Inc. New Media. Mr. Coomes said that the decision to dismantle Pathfinder was based on the fact that most consumers went directly to the individual magazine sites and skipped the Pathfinder home page, and that the move was part of a long-term strategy. "Now we're working on promoting individual brands, like Time.com and Fortune.com, and their features and functions," Mr. Coomes said.
But the move, first reported yesterday on CNET's News.com Web site, comes late, industry analysts said. Lisa Allen, a senior analyst at Forrester Research, a market research firm in Cambridge, Mass., said that Pathfinder's demise was about two years overdue.
"It's about time," she said. "It is repurposed print content on line, and that just doesn't work. The success of a site like Pathfinder is about creating a specific on-line entity. It doesn't mean throwing up a group of magazines on one home page and having people drill down to the magazines."
Founded in 1994, Pathfinder was one of the first corporate sites to open on the Web. But it was dogged by problems, from the merely technical -- such as the initial lengthy download time that users found frustrating, and a cluttered layout -- to the problems of a constantly shifting management.
Like any pioneer, Pathfinder bore a number of scars as the first major publisher to face issues like intellectual property rights in a free-for-all medium and the gamble of offering content from print publications on line at the risk of hurting newsstand and subscription sales.
In 1997, Pathfinder underwent a flurry of changes in management and focus when it named as president Linda McCutcheon, a Time Inc. vice president for sales and marketing. Ms. McCutcheon resigned earlier this month.
Time Warner spent more than than $15 million a year in developing the site, according to a former staff member. It was unclear how much, if any, of that investment was recouped. No one at Time Inc. would comment on the costs or cash flow, said Graham Cannon, a spokesman for Time Inc. New Media.
Mark Mooradian, a senior analyst at Jupiter Communications, said Pathfinder had made a number of missteps.
"One of them was burying all those wonderful consumer brands like Time magazine and Fortune magazine under the U.R.L. Pathfinder," he said, referring to the Web address pathfinder.com. "That was a terrible mistake, because people had to learn what Pathfinder was."
The bright side, he said, was that the demise of Pathfinder "is paving the path for much more editorial control and the empowerment of the individual properties."
One way in which that individual empowerment may come about is through electronic commerce. Most of the success on the Web is attributed to sites that offer a combination of content and commerce -- for example, when a user can read about the new Britney Spears CD on the Teen People Web site, then click on a picture of the album cover and purchase it.
To that end, Time Warner announced in January the formation of Time Warner E-Commerce to consolidate the company's current direct-marketing efforts on the Web and introduce other programs.
Michael Pepe, the former president of the Time Inc. Business Information Group -- which includes Fortune, Money, Your Company and Mutual Funds magazine -- was named president of the E-commerce unit. At the time, Mr. Pepe said he expected the magazine group's growth in E-commerce to be big. "We're beginning to create parallel, complementary Web sites for our magazines that will provide new ways to talk to our consumers," he said.
The Web audience, Ms. Allen of Forrester Research said, has "a different set of expectations: they look for utility and convenience and savings, as well as content." She said that Time Warner had recognized that the old publishing model of magazines was different on the Web.
"On-line publishing blends content and commerce increasingly, as if the old lines between editorial and advertising are disappearing," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC TIME INC (95%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); WEB SITES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; COOMES, JEFFREY MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



584 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: Border War Over the Peace Bridge

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, April 22

 BODY:
Since the days of Prohibition, the Peace Bridge has been the infrastructural equivalent of a warm handshake between Canada and the United States: an economic, recreational and cultural lifeline for people on both sides of the Niagara River.
Because of the bridge, Canadians do not think twice about crossing over to Buffalo Sabres hockey games or buying winter homes in the Cattaraugus Mountains. Americans routinely hop over to Toronto for dinner, and stay in summer cottages on the Canadian side of Lake Erie. 
 Indeed, people here probably see the other side as less of a foreign country than, say, some Manhattanites view New Jersey or Queens.
But these days, there is anything but peace at the Peace Bridge.
The bridge, a 3,600-foot steel truss built in 1927, is past its prime, barely adequate for the traffic that has surged in recent years at the crossing, where the wait can exceed an hour and a half on summer days.
The Canadians are pushing to build a three-lane bridge next to the existing one, a mirror-image "twin span" that they say would honor history and symbolize American-Canadian friendship. The Americans, though, want to demolish the old bridge and build a six-lane structure that they envision as so impressive that they are calling it a "signature bridge."
The clash over the Peace Bridge is not just a battle of function versus form, engineering versus esthetics. It has become a political football in Ottawa and Washington, with Canadian officials accusing the Americans of Manifest Destiny arrogance, and American officials dismissing the Canadians as parochial.
"It's not an American bridge; it's an international bridge," sighed John D. Maloney, who represents the Fort Erie district in the Canadian Parliament. "The Canadian interests and desires appear to be ignored. It's very disappointing, and quite frankly, very difficult to believe that this could be happening."
To which James W. Pitts, president of Buffalo's Common Council, sniffed, "I think the problem now is that they're trying to make this an international incident, when in fact it's nothing more than sitting down rationally and trying to do something better for both sides, and create a new symbol with binational cooperation."
More than just political bickering, though, the clash has been transformed into a fight of millennial magnitude -- a fight over how to build the best bridge for, well, the 21st century.
The new bridge, quite simply, is the biggest project to come down the pike in many years, a huge public works endeavor that could cost $90 million and take more than six years.
The fear, on the Canadian side, is that diplomatic squabbling may delay other economic projects. But the hope, on the American side, is that the authorities do the right thing -- finally -- for a city and a region that have long been mired in self-doubt and economic quicksand.
"While nobody thinks that a bridge will revitalize a city, public symbols are important, especially here, because a lot of people feel beat up," said Bruce Jackson, a professor of American culture at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
The debate is now at a crucial stage. With the support of the Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Authority, the quasi-public binational authority that operates the bridge, Canadian officials have approved all of the requisite permits to begin work on the twin-bridge proposal. All that remains is a decision by the United States Coast Guard on whether the project has any negative impact on the Niagara River.
But already, Buffalo's Mayor, Anthony M. Masiello, has threatened to sue if the Coast Guard approves the permit. And with the exception of Gov. George E. Pataki, who has sidestepped the issue, all of New York's major politicians, including Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Charles E. Schumer and Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer, have thrown their weight behind the signature bridge.
There is, however, one point of agreement: something must be done to improve the flow of traffic on the existing bridge, which resembles, with its dollar-green paint and asymmetrical truss, a scaly aquatic monster burrowing into the American side.
Encouraged in large part by the North American Free Trade Agreement, commercial traffic via the Peace Bridge has skyrocketed in recent years. In 1991, $23 billion worth of goods passed through; now, the annual figure is $40 billion to $45 billion, said Stephen F. Mayer, the bridge's operations manager on the American side.
The number of commercial trucks, meanwhile, continues to break records with as much nonchalant regularity as the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Last year, 1.381 million commercial vehicles crossed the Peace Bridge, up 62 percent from 1991.
Yet for years, truckers, commuters and vacationing motorists have complained about the lack of customs agents and immigration officials at the border, creating bottlenecks that are especially pronounced during the summer.
So in the early 1990's, the bridge authority began studying options for a new bridge.
"The approach was, 'What are the options that allow us to avoid impacts?' " said Deborah J. Chadsey, an American lawyer for the bridge authority. "Don't disrupt the lake. Don't disturb the archeologically sensitive areas. Don't move the footprint."
For a while, it seemed that the twin bridge, combined with a plan to renovate the existing one, would be a fait accompli: the authority's 10-member board of directors, comprising five Canadians and five Americans, all political appointees, unanimously approved the project, which would be financed by bonds, not taxes.
But at the latter stages of the process, particularly after the winning bid came in at $90 million, much higher than previously projected, public opinion on the American side began to shift from indifference to indignation, led by Mr. Pitts of the Common Council, Senator Moynihan and a citizens' group of mostly young professionals in Buffalo called the New Millennium Group.
They said the bridge authority did not make the process as open as it should have been for so monumental a project. Then, as an alternative, they unveiled a concrete cable-stayed bridge, in which cables flare out from a central tower, sketched by the noted bridge designers Bruno Freschi and T. Y. Lin, that they said would be better, cheaper and faster to build than the authority's $90 million twin bridge.
If adopted, their bridge plan would restore land to a Frederick Law Olmsted park along the waterfront and help revitalize a downtown that is now a shell of its proud industrial past, said Bill Banas, 28, a software engineer who is the group's director.
Their bridge, they believe, would also help convince outsiders that the city is not just a dumping ground for blizzards and the birthplace of chicken wings, but also a culturally vibrant place with a fine natural harbor and architectural feats by Wright, Sullivan and Richardson.
It has become so personal, so emotional, an issue that some people are saying they will take their civic energy elsewhere should the twin bridge be hatched.
"If they build that ugly, mismatched companion bridge, we're going to spend the next 100 years apologizing for it," said Jeff Belt, 36, an entrepreneur who lived and worked all over the world before returning last year to Buffalo, his hometown. "That's why so many of us say, if this thing comes to pass, we're going to leave. We're not going to bear with the heartbreak, again."
The bridge authority itself was until recently a relatively anonymous entity best known for collecting tolls ($2 for cars; an average of $10 to $12 per truck) and plotting small-bore projects (repaving the bridge; repainting the bridge).
In an interview, bridge authorities vigorously defended the twin structure, saying they had studied about a dozen options, catalogued all the environmental permutations and spent more than $10 million in the process.
Their mandate, they said repeatedly, was to collect tolls as efficiently as possible to compete with the top border crossing, Detroit and Windsor, Ontario. It was, Mr. Mayer said, asking perhaps just a tad too much of the authority to "hang the economic rejuvenation and renaissance of Buffalo on the appearance of this bridge."
Or, as Roderick H. McDowell, a Canadian board member and a lawyer, framed it: "We're responsible for assuring a safe, economical conduit of public transportation. Cinderella's castle won't work here."
But even on the bridge authority, there are signs of strain. In a recent vote on whether to delay the project for further study, the tally was a 5-to-5 split along national lines, with the Americans saying yes to the delay and the Canadians saying no.
There are few signs that the issue will fade any time soon. In Fort Erie, almost every person interviewed seemed to be reading from the same script, saying that it was most important to "get on with it," that their American counterparts were acting selfishly.
The twin bridge, the Canadians added, could be built more quickly, pumping life into Fort Erie's sagging economy and attracting more Americans to a planned casino at the Fort Erie race track. It would also preserve a beloved symbol.
"The Peace Bridge in Fort Erie is significant because many of us grew up in the shadow of the bridge," said Wayne H. Redekop, the Mayor of Fort Erie, population 28,000. "For many of the people in Buffalo, the Peace Bridge has no real emotional connotation. For them to suggest, 'Well, just tear it down,' doesn't respond to the sensitivities on this side of Buffalo. For them, Fort Erie is an afterthought."
In Buffalo, meanwhile, almost every person interviewed endorsed the signature bridge. Some even pulled out postcards printed from the New Millennium Group's Web site -- with its striking computer-generated image of Tampa's Sunshine Skyway Bridge superimposed over the Buffalo skyline -- as a possible vision of the future.
But the fact that Canadians are not seeing things their way remains a source of bewilderment and bitterness.
"When people are frustrated, they look for a bad guy," said Mr. Jackson of the University of Buffalo, speaking, of course, about the American perspective. "So all of a sudden, Canada became the bad guy to people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Canadian and American officials agree that the Peace Bridge, top, shown from Canada, is past its prime and inadequate for future traffic demands. But the Canadians favor a twin structure, a model of which is at left, while the Americans want to demolish the old bridge and build a new one, similar to the one shown at right. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO SABRES (58%); BUFFALO SABRES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO SABRES (58%); BUFFALO SABRES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; NIAGARA RIVER; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); LAKES (72%); MILLENNIUM (60%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



585 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tells Global Partners That It Can't Be Sole Engine of Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26

 BODY:
The United States told Germany and Japan today that the world economy could not run for long on only one engine: an American economy that keeps expanding as Europe slows and Tokyo prays that a seven-year recession is ending.
But after a daylong meeting of the finance ministers and central bankers of the world's seven largest industrialized economies, it became clear that even two years of global financial turmoil had done little to forge a consensus about reviving economic growth. In fact, several participants in the meetings described the return of an atmosphere of calm about the state of the world economy, a calm that one official said "might make you think we had not just been through a devastating world economic crisis." 
 Most of the meetings were filled with talk of a modest agenda of changes for the International Monetary Fund and its member states, mostly requiring greater disclosure by countries about their finances, in hopes of preventing the kinds of surprises that fueled the Asian economic crisis.
But there was no urgent talk, as there was six months ago, about the risks of deflation. European officials offered no new agenda for turning around a slowdown that has already led to a slide in the value of the new European currency, the euro. And a clear divide emerged between the United States and Japan over whether Tokyo had already done enough.
No sooner had the Group of Seven nations issued their traditional communique this afternoon than Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and his Japanese counterpart, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, began to interpret the deliberately vague wording about Japan's economic strategy in strikingly different terms.
The communique, agreed upon by all of the nations well before the start of today's meeting, stated that Japan should "implement stimulus measures until growth is restored, using all available tools to support strong domestic-demand-led growth." Mr. Miyazawa, a former Prime Minister and one of Tokyo's canniest politicians, told a news conference here this evening that the wording "has nothing to do with anything new." It should not be read to suggest, he said, that Japan was ready to take further steps to stimulate its economy. The I.M.F. predicts that Japan's gross national product will shrink 1.4 percent this year, while the Japanese Government officially says that there will be modest growth.
Mr. Rubin appeared to have a different view from that of Mr. Miyazawa. Speaking at the Treasury, he insisted that the communique, in his interpretation, committed Japan to "continue to take important measures" until "solid, domestic-demand-led growth is resolved."
There is an enormous political gap laid bare by their statements. Mr. Miyazawa knows that the Government of Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, who visits here next week, has no political capital left to persuade Japanese lawmakers to spend more on stimulating the economy and bailing out failed banks. But Mr. Rubin has repeatedly said that the United States cannot continue to soak up exports from Japan and the rest of Asia, sending the American trade deficit soaring.
"This is not indefinitely sustainable economically," Mr. Rubin said today, "and certainly not politically." He referred to the divergent positions as a "slight difference of emphasis." But it was a difference that had been kept well below the surface for nearly a year.
Throughout 1997 and the first half of 1998 Mr. Rubin rarely missed an opportunity to criticize Japan's slowness to react to its troubles, despite overwhelming evidence that the country's recession was worsening the angst in Asia. But after the Japanese protested that he was undercutting confidence, Mr. Rubin muted those comments and often praised Prime Minister Obuchi for pushing through bailouts of Japanese banks.
But the fear now is that Japan is not ready with a second phase of measures if the first run out of steam. That is what happened three years ago, when Japan briefly showed signs of recovery only to fall into its deepest recession since the end of World War II.
Japan, though, was hardly the only shrinking economy that commanded the group's attentions today.
The finance ministers stopped well short of publicly endorsing new loans to Russia to keep the country from defaulting in coming months. Nonetheless, officials say they expect a $4.2 billion loan will be delivered by June, the first aid to Russia since it devalued its currency and President Boris N. Yeltsin dismissed an economic reform team last August.
In their communique, the ministers said that they remained "concerned about the country's ongoing financial and macroeconomic instability," and, in the typically understated wording of such documents, urged Russia to adopt "a credible economic program." But Mr. Rubin clearly remains skeptical about the ability of Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov to deliver on Russia's commitments.
"Assuming that the actions agreed to are real," Mr. Rubin said, referring to Russia's promises to the I.M.F. to rein in its government spending, "then I think that would be a substantial fiscal accomplishment." But he quickly warned that "agreement is one thing; implementation is another," a clear reference to Russia's past promises.
Mr. Rubin said that the ministers spent very little time discussing exchange rates. There was some discussion of the economic impact of the air war in Kosovo, but no agreement on how the cost of rebuilding the region might be shared. Most of the session was devoted to questions of increased financial disclosure, with hints that all the countries would soon adopt new rules regarding hedge funds, the huge pools of money that some blame for accelerating the Asian crisis and the flight of cash from Russia and Brazil.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The finance ministers after their meeting in Washington yesterday. From left, Paul Martin of Canada, Kiichi Miyazawa of Japan, Carlo Ciampi of Italy, Robert E. Rubin of the United States, Gordon Brown of Britain, Hans Eichel of Germany and Dominique Strauss-Kahn of France. (Reuters)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); TRENDS (77%); EURO (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); POLITICS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E; MIYAZAWA, KIICHI (MIN) DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (71%); PAUL MARTIN (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



586 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Power Plants Lure Investors, And Critics

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
For the first time in more than two decades, companies are asking permission to build large power plants in New York City and the Hudson River Valley, all spurred by the deregulation of the electric power industry.
Eight proposals have been filed with the New York State Public Service Commission since August. They include plans for a 520-megawatt, 800-foot-long floating power plant to be moored along the waterfront in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn, two separate 1,100-megawatt plants in Ramapo, in Rockland County, and -- furthest along -- a 1,080-megawatt plant in Athens, 30 miles south of Albany. 
 A 1,000-megawatt plant produces roughly enough power for one million small homes. The plants, to be built with money from private investors instead of ratepayers, are projected to cost from $350 million to $500 million each.
Proponents say the plants would cut power bills by increasing supplies of electricity and generating it more efficiently, fueled by natural gas, which produces little pollution, instead of oil or coal, the dirtier fuels burned at the state's older plants.
But opponents of the Hudson Valley plants say the power is not needed, the giant structures would mar the landscape, and cooling systems would threaten water supplies and fish in the river.
At the same time, as part of the statewide restructuring of the industry over the past few years, existing older power plants are being sold by utilities like Consolidated Edison Company and Central Hudson Gas & Electric to independent companies that plan to compete with the new plants.
Some environmental groups say that by modernizing or expanding the existing plants, the air and water would be protected without pocking the horizon with new smokestacks and steam plumes.
All this activity is part of a broader effort to encourage competition in an industry dominated by local monopolies for a century. While little competition has been seen so far in New York in the retail end of the business -- the companies that sell power directly to homes and businesses -- the proposals for new power plants indicate that at the wholesale end, some companies feel there is money to be made.
"While not trying to pre-decide the environmental issues involved in some of these sites, I think having eight plants here with applications to build is very good news for customers," said Frank Herbert, the director of the office overseeing the restructuring of the power industry in the state's Department of Public Service.
There are similar flurries of proposals for new plants in New England, Texas, California and other areas with big electricity markets and lagging supplies. The Public Service Commission opened the wholesale power market in New York state to competition in 1996.
New York's new plants could eventually offer consumers the ability to choose a power source based on considerations besides cost -- for example, buying power generated with the least pollution, a choice already available in California.
But there is no consensus on whether the new plants would lead to lower prices or less pollution.
"It's kind of a wild West out there," said Mark Stultz, a spokesman for the Electric Power Supply Association, a private group in Washington representing independent power-producing companies. "All these guys are gambling they can do it best."
Some of the confusion stems from new questions about a state power plant siting board created by the State Legislature in 1992 to streamline the process of seeking permits.
In February, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency ruled that the state board lacked the authority to issue permits for discharges to the air and water. New state legislation will probably be needed to fix the problem, environmental experts and state officials say.
In the meantime, the first proposal under consideration is by US Generating Company, an arm of Pacific Gas & Electric, to build a plant powered by natural gas in Athens. The site was chosen, company officials say, because it lies at the confluence of the Iroquois gas pipeline, the river, and power lines that can carry electricity to New York City, New England, and other power-hungry markets.
A series of state hearings on the proposal ended earlier this month, and two "examiners" -- state officials assessing the plans -- are to issue a recommendation to the siting board this summer. By law, a vote of the board, an arm of the Department of Public Service, must follow by October.
The final decision is largely controlled by Gov. George E. Pataki, who appointed the four state agency commissioners who sit on the six-person board for each application. (The other two board members come from local governments, and are also appointed by Mr. Pataki.) The decision on the Athens plant is bound to be a particularly sticky one, given Governor Pataki's eagerness to spur economic growth and his strong ties to scenic and environmental preservationists in the Hudson Valley.
The plant is supported by most elected officials in Greene County, who say it would be in a lot zoned for industrial use and would generate taxes and jobs. It is opposed by private historic preservation and environmental groups, who say it would ruin the view from several parks and historic homes across the river in Columbia County.
One view that would be affected is that from Olana, the ornate Moorish mansion built by Frederic E. Church, a 19th century artist whose work epitomized the Hudson River School of landscape painting.
Citing the proximity of the plant to the state-owned mansion, the State Parks Commissioner, Bernadette Castro, wrote a letter in February to the Public Service Commission opposing the plan.
The company says the plant, set back two miles from the Hudson, would be largely hidden from view and many times cleaner than nearby oil-fired plants. The plume of steam from its cooling systems would be limited with special equipment, said Daniel J. Whyte, the director of government relations in the Northeast for US Generating.
He said the plant would help improve both the river and the air. Niagara Mohawk, a power company with older plants nearby, projects that it would have to reduce the amount of power generated at its plants because of the cheaper power coming from the new competitor. Earlier this month, the finding was used at the hearings on the proposal to show that building the plant would help cut air pollution.
Mr. Whyte said the proposed plant also would use 150 times less cooling water per kilowatt than neighboring older plants, meaning that it would result in far fewer fish being sucked into equipment and killed.
Scenic Hudson and Riverkeeper Inc., two environmental groups, dispute the predictions of cuts in pollution and say the plant has the right technology, but is planned for the wrong place.
Theresa Rose Hanczor, a lawyer for Riverkeeper, said that in the new free market for electricity there was no way to predict how the arrival of a cleaner power plant would affect decisions at neighboring older power plants.
The result could be that demand for power would be high enough that all the plants would keep running, she said. "In the case of Athens, then, you've got this plant in a prime shad-spawning and nursery grounds," she said. "Once it's there, it's there for good and the area is degraded forever."
Ms. Hanczor and other critics also say that the state's process for deciding whether to permit new power plants moves too quickly and does not provide enough scrutiny of proposals.
Company officials expressed frustration with the continued opposition on environmental grounds.
"If there's not a problem with the air and not a problem with the fish, you've got to find a problem," Mr. Whyte said of the environmental groups.
Earlier this month, the state examiners viewed the proposed plant site from the grounds of Olana. Daniel P. O'Connell, the associate examiner, marveled at the sweeping panorama from the mansion.
"It's clearly the most gorgeous view of the Hudson Valley," he said, but quickly added that this in no way meant he had made up his mind: "We'll have to wait and see until all the comments are in."
The idea of a floating plant on the Brooklyn waterfront is so new that it has not become an issue yet. It is being developed by Sunset Energy Inc., a Manhattan company that is also building a small gas-fired plant at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
The decision to put the power plant on huge barges was easy, said Jerry Montrose, chairman and chief executive officer of Sunset Energy. There are simply no tracts of industrially zoned land inside the city big enough to house a plant, he said.
The Sunset Park site is also important, Mr. Montrose added, because it would supply electricity to a part of Brooklyn that is starved for electricity because of limited transmission lines.
Officials at companies that are buying some of the old power plants say they should not be counted out in the race to sell power.
Why pay for something flashy and new if a well-maintained but older alternative gets you where you are going, said David Mould, a spokesman for Southern Energy Inc., an Atlanta-based power producing company.
For around $480 million, Southern Energy is buying a group of old Hudson Valley power plants totaling 1,776 megawatts in generating capacity from Orange and Rockland Utilities Inc. -- a cheaper investment for more power than the money proposed for the new gas-powered plants in the region.
The company is going to spend $390 million at the existing sites to increase efficiency, cut pollution and add more natural-gas generators, Mr. Mould said.
He would not predict which strategy would win, saying that they were all experimental.
"They're different paths to the same end," Mr. Mould said. "Price will drive everything."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel P. O'Connell, a state examiner, viewed a graphic showing how a power plant would look from a prized vantage point in Athens, N.Y. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 
Map of New York showing the location of the power plant. Eight proposed power plants are scattered across seven areas. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); CENTRAL HUDSON GAS & ELECTRIC CORP (66%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; RAMAPO (NY); ATHENS (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (77%); RIVERS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



587 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Russian Says Milosevic Is Ready to Deal with NATO
The Foreign Minister of Russia, Igor Ivanov, said President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia was prepared to make concessions, but that NATO must also bend. A1 

The Pentagon will begin calling up reservists as early as today, a top official said, and will immediately send 30 refueling aircraft to support the air attacks in Yugoslavia. An Army Apache helicopter crashed in Albania, but both crewmen survived. A12
 
Three American soldiers captured by Yugoslav forces a month ago were visited by the president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, who said they appeared to be in good condition. A13
 
A Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister, Vuk Draskovic, vowed to lead protests against President Milosevic if military control over the Studio B television station was not immediately lifted. He said a military officer had come to the station and barred the rebroadcast of an interview that Mr. Draskovic gave on Sunday. A13
 
Kosovo Update A12
 
Clinton Cautions Arafat
President Clinton warned Yasir Arafat against declaring Palestinian statehood next week, but he edged toward support for eventual independence for the Palestinian people. The President also set a one-year target date for completion of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. A8
 
Indian Parliament Disbanded
President K. R. Narayanan dissolved the lower house of Parliament, making way for India's third general election in three years. The election, which has not been scheduled, must take place within six months. A14
 
World Bank Poverty Warning
A World Bank report warned that a generation of improvements in the plight of the poor was in danger of stalling. It also said it was becoming increasingly difficult to meet goals set for 2015 at a series of United Nations conferences. A14
 
BBC Host Is Found Slain
Jill Dando, a BBC television news broadcaster, was found shot dead outside her home in London. Ms. Dando was a host for the BBC's "Six O'Clock News," a travel program and a show called "Crimewatch." A14
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
Police Say Gunman's Diary Envisioned Wider Mayhem
Police investigators in Littleton, Colo., said a diary kept by one of the two gunmen who killed 13 people and themselves at Columbine High School included visions of killing 500 students, attacking neighboring homes and hijacking a plane and crashing it in New York City. Detectives questioned an 18-year-old girlfriend of one of the gunmen in an effort to determine her link, if any, to a pistol found at the scene and whether anyone knew of the plot. Funerals were held for 4 of the 13 victims. Toxicology tests on the bodies of the gunmen did not show evidence of drugs or alcohol, officials said. A1
 
President Clinton plans to announce a package of gun-control proposals today. They will include measures to halt the importation of clips that allow assault weapons to fire more than 10 shots at once and to charge parents with a felony if their children commit crimes with guns. A20
 
Court Enters Tobacco Fray
The Supreme Court said it would decide whether the F.D.A. has authority to regulate tobacco products as drugs and cigarettes as "drug delivery devices." The Clinton Administration is appealing a lower-court ruling striking down extensive F.D.A. regulations issued in 1996. A18
 
Weight-Loss Drug Approved
The F.D.A. approved orlistat, the first in a new class of anti-obesity drugs that work by blocking the body's absorption of dietary fat, as opposed to tricking the brain into ignoring hunger. The drug is intended for use by obese people or overweight people with certain other health problems. A1
 
More Delay for New Air Radar
The F.A.A. said a new traffic control system for lower-altitude aircraft, already several months behind schedule, still could not run fast enough to serve in busy environments. The agency's existing screens are so old, with spare parts scarce, that the F.A.A. had been trying to rush the new equipment into service in busy radar centers serving New York City, Washington and Dallas-Fort Worth. A19
 
New Fishing Restrictions
The National Marine Fisheries Service unveiled new fishing restrictions for the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts to try to rebuild stocks of shark, Atlantic tuna and marlin. Conservationists said the measures, which take effect on June 1, were insufficient to stem the severe decline of swordfish. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Chancellor Intensifies His Dispute With Mayor
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew accused Mayor Giuliani of dismissing the city's school system and everyone in it "as no good and beyond redemption," escalating a series of disagreements and raising questions anew about whether the Chancellor intends to remain in New York. A1
 
Plans for New Power Plants
For the first time in more than two decades, companies are asking permission to build large power plants in New York City and the Hudson River Valley, spurred by deregulation of the power industry. One would be a 520-megawatt, 800-foot-long floating plant moored in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn. B1
 
Safir Denies Retaliation
Police Commissioner Howard Safir denied an officer's allegation that she was dismissed for testifying critically about the department before the City Council. B3
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Putting a New Eye in the Sky
A Colorado company, Space Imaging, plans today to launch what will be the world's most powerful civilian spacecraft for observing the Earth, inaugurating the first real rival to military spies in the sky. F1
 
Race and Views on Health Care
Middle-income black, Hispanic and white Americans have much different attitudes toward health care, a survey found, raising concern among minority leaders that two separate and unequal systems of care have developed in the United States. F8
 
Health & Fitness F6
 
ARTS E1-8
 
FASHION B8
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Broncos' Star to Retire
Quarterback John Elway, 38, told the Denver Post that he would not play another season. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
New Heir at Amex
American Express said Kenneth I. Chenault, 47, the company's president and chief operating officer, would succeed Harvey Golub as chief executive in 2001. C1
 
Time Warner Closing Web Site
Time Warner will shut down Pathfinder, its pioneering outpost in cyberspace, and replace it with hub sites that combine related magazines, features and links to other Time Warner outlets like CNN. C1
 
Group of Seven Meeting
Finance ministers and central bankers of the seven largest industrialized economies met, but could not agree on how to revive economic growth in Europe and Japan. C1
 
Ebay Makes Off-Line Move
The electronic auction service Ebay agreed to acquire Butterfield & Butterfield, San Francisco's largest auction house, for $260 million. C2
 
Ex-Studio Chief's Lawsuit
Opening statements were made in the breach-of-contract lawsuit against Walt Disney by Jeffrey Katzenberg, the former chairman of Walt Disney Studios. C11
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: The schools in New York City -- abolish the board, reject vouchers, be fair about funding; Kosovo strategies; an ill-timed N.R.A. meeting.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E6
 
TV Listings E7
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D6
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (50%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); INDIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); INDIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); GUN CONTROL (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (72%); HELICOPTERS (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); TOXICOLOGY (61%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



588 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
Tagliabue Fakes Out the Patriots

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
From November through last week, the National Football League did nothing publicly to upset the proposition that the New England Patriots would move from the team's creaky old home in Foxboro, Mass., to a $375 million stadium in Hartford that would be fully subsidized by Connecticut taxpayers.
But on Friday, Paul Tagliabue, the N.F.L. commissioner, met in Boston with Massachusetts business leaders, now energized by the urgency of the Patriots' situation. Tagliabue said he wanted to take a look at how the team might remain in Foxboro, in a new $225 million stadium paid for by the league and the team, with up to $75 million being provided by Massachusetts for roads, exit ramps and parking lots. 
 What a fancy stutter-step executed by the commissioner, letting Hartford think it had snagged the Patriots with a giveaway so rich that it made sweetheart deals nationwide seem modest by comparison. In fact, the timing of Tagliabue's trip to Boston seems calculated to stir up a crisis: on the day of his visit, the Patriots filed an official application to move to Hartford, which owners will consider at N.F.L. meetings in Atlanta on May 25 and 26. Approval of the move requires a yes vote from three-quarters of the 32 owners.
By resurrecting Foxboro as an option, the league has set the stage for the possible undoing of a signed agreement between Robert K. Kraft, the Patriots' owner, and the State of Connecticut.
"When the league makes its presentation about the Patriots to the owners, we have to be able to say that we've explored every alternative in Massachusetts," said Joe Browne, a league spokesman. "We have to be able to tell owners, even if they don't like it, that there is no option but Hartford. We're doing what the owners authorized us to do."
The league did not consult Kraft about Foxboro, Browne said. "Kraft can't talk about anything but Connecticut," Browne explained. "He has an agreement."
Kraft can escape his Connecticut deal if he does not sign a site status report by Sunday. But Dean Pagani, a spokesman for Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut, said, "We've been assured it's not an out option."
Kraft surely knows what is cooking in Massachusetts, but how can he not have developed a deep affection for Connecticut, which presented him with a deal he never asked for but would have been crazy to reject? In an era of whopping government subsidies for privately owned teams, Kraft won the lottery.
Except that now, maybe he hasn't, because the N.F.L., after focusing on the still unfinished Washington Redskins sale and the potential placement of a new franchise in Los Angeles, has clearly lost its shyness about intervening in the Patriots' move. What happened?
Blame it on Dan Rooney, the Pittsburgh Steelers' owner. Last December, Rooney and Paul Kirk Jr., the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, were at a reception honoring the Irish winners of the 1998 Nobel Peace Prize. They spoke about "what a tragedy it would be if the Patriots left the area," Rooney said.
"I said it didn't look like anybody was doing anything," he added, "and Paul said it looked like a foregone conclusion that they're gone. I said, 'They still have to take it to the league.' Paul took it from there."
Browne said, "Kirk had a job to do to gauge enthusiasm and to question whether the Patriots' move to Connecticut was a bluff or not."
Kirk knew Tagliabue and once worked with him on antitrust legislation. Kirk assembled a group of business leaders who went public with their Foxboro plan on April 16, after which Tagliabue's public enlistment was made possible.
"It made very clear our seriousness of purpose," Kirk said. "Many people feel it's very helpful if the N.F.L. commissioner says what he hears is good. The timing of his visit was great. I feel it made a big difference."
But there would be a difference between how much richer Kraft would get in Hartford than in Foxboro. "We're not coming up with a plan with the same economic benefits for the owner," Kirk said.
You never know what owners will do at an owners' meeting. Will they vote for what Kraft wants, which is Hartford? Will Kraft, a league insider and chairman of its finance committee, surrender his fight for Hartford if Tagliabue twists arms to consider Foxboro? Are owners truly fearful of losing another large-market team, after losing teams in Los Angeles and Houston?
Rooney showed little awkwardness in having laid the early groundwork that might undo the Patriots' deal in Hartford. "I'm not saying it's easy, but we have to do the right thing and what's in the best interest of the N.F.L. and our television partners," he said.
With 2.2 million television households, Boston is the sixth-largest television market in the United States. Hartford, the 27th-largest market, has 909,930 TV homes.
Tagliabue's Boston visit fostered a public-perception problem for Hartford, not a real one, Pagani said. The burst of positive talk in Massachusetts is no different from what Kraft heard in the past, Pagani said, while there is legislation and site preparation going on in Hartford. "Our deal hasn't changed," he said. "In Massachusetts, it's all talk."
But when Tagliabue is the guest emcee of the talk, Hartford cannot feel entirely safe. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (58%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); FOXBORO (MASS); UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; STADIUMS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); LOTTERIES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; TAGLIABUE, PAUL (COMR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



589 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
KREMLIN SAYS NATO AS WELL AS SERBS MUST COMPROMISE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 26

 BODY:
As an American envoy arrived here for talks on Kosovo, Russia's Foreign Minister said today that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia was prepared to make concessions, but that NATO would also have to bend if the conflict was to be brought to an end.
The remarks by the Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, came a day after President Boris N. Yeltsin telephoned President Clinton about Kosovo, and coincided with the arrival of Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott to pursue the possibilities of Russian mediation. 
 Though Mr. Ivanov, in an hourlong interview, did not proclaim any major breakthrough, he laid down the cooperation that Russia expected from both sides if it was to proceed as interlocutor. With Mr. Milosevic still unbowed after more than a month of intensive bombing, NATO and the United States have been trying to involve Russia, a nation with traditional links to Yugoslavia, in the search for a diplomatic solution.
"We won't serve as a postman," Mr. Ivanov said. "We won't deliver NATO's ultimatums to Belgrade. That is not our mission. If there is an ultimatum from one side and then an ultimatum from the other side, there is no maneuver for negotiation. There should be cooperation on both sides."
Offering a preview of what Mr. Milosevic was prepared to concede, Mr. Ivanov said the Yugoslav leader was ready to reduce his forces in Kosovo to the level they were at in October, before the Serbian military began preparing for its offensive against ethnic Albanians there.
Mr. Ivanov said Mr. Milosevic had also agreed in very general terms to allow an international presence to police a settlement in Kosovo, though crucial details remain to be worked out.
The Foreign Minister acknowledged that the Yugoslav proposals, which were made in recent talks with former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, Russia's special envoy on Kosovo, fell well short of NATO demands.
But he said they represented a starting point for serious discussions on ending the Kosovo conflict, and warned that a political settlement would not be achieved if the Western alliance refused to negotiate on its demands.
The Yugoslav proposals outlined by Mr. Ivanov today suggested that there is still an enormous gap between NATO and Belgrade. Negotiations to bring the fighting to an end appear to be at a very early stage, and it remained far from clear that Russia would prove to be the successful mediator the West is hoping for.
The West's decision to welcome Russia's diplomatic involvement stands in sharp contrast to the 1991 conflict in the Persian Gulf, when Yevgeny M. Primakov's efforts at shuttle diplomacy were regarded by Washington as a meddlesome effort to protect President Saddam Hussein of Iraq from defeat. Mr. Primakov, now Prime Minister, was then the Soviet special envoy to the gulf.
This time, NATO seemed eager to give the Russians a chance.
Mr. Talbott's mission, American officials said, is to learn the details of the proposals Mr. Milosevic made to Mr. Chernomyrdin. It is also, they say, to explain NATO's demands to the Russians so they can continue their mediating role with a better understanding of what the Western alliance can and cannot agree to.
President Jacques Chirac of France telephoned Mr. Yeltsin today and urged him to keep up the political pressure on Yugoslavia, French officials said. The United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, is also scheduled to arrive this week for talks with Russian leaders on Kosovo.
For all the diplomatic movement, nobody denied that NATO and Yugoslavia were far apart. Belgrade's offer to slash it troops is a case in point.
Mr. Ivanov portrayed Mr. Milosevic's readiness to reduce his forces in Kosovo to their October level as a significant concession, hinting that Belgrade might we willing to make still further cuts. According to NATO estimates, Yugoslavia had about 22,500 military and Interior Ministry troops in Kosovo in October, compared with some 40,000 now.
The Yugoslav proposal, however, does not come close to meeting NATO's demands. The alliance has insisted that Yugoslavia withdraw virtually all its forces from Kosovo, saying ethnic Albanian refugees will never return as long as the Serbian units that attacked them remain.
"The idea that those Serb military forces, police or paramilitary units who are responsible for the ethnic cleansing and war crimes in Kosovo can stay is a non-starter," said James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman.
The issue of an international force is even more difficult, the Russian official said.
"We started from a position where Belgrade refused to accept any foreign military presence, including a Russian one," Mr. Ivanov said. "After our official talks, Belgrade has officially confirmed its readiness to accept an international presence under the auspices of the United Nations. For now, this question has not gone any further. Talks are under way about its composition and other things, but this work is in progress."
Mr. Ivanov said that Russia was prepared to send peacekeeping troops, but that it would be very difficult for Mr. Milosevic to accept a force that was essentially under NATO's control.
"Put yourself in the place of Yugoslav's leaders," he said. "Would you allow the same people who destroyed your country to carry out the peacekeeping operation?"
In contrast, NATO has insisted that it play the major role in any peacekeeping operation. Thousands of British soldiers are now assembling in Macedonia for that mission, and Britain's Defense Minister has said it is just a matter of time before they are deployed. Lightly armed United Nations peacekeepers, NATO says, will not do.
Mr. Rubin said: "In the absence of a credible military presence, Kosovo refugees cannot come back, and we are determined to create the conditions for them to come back. A force with NATO at its core will provide the magnet for them to return."
Beyond negotiating proposals and tactics, Russia and NATO have issued wildly divergent accounts of how the war is going.
NATO officials have insisted there are signs that political and economic elites in Belgrade have grown unhappy with the war and that the Milosevic Government might crack soon under the strain. Senior British officials have even argued that the air strikes are so punishing that an allied ground force might be able to move into Kosovo in several months against minimal resistance.
Mr. Ivanov, however, insisted that this is a misreading of the situation. He said Moscow had warned alliance officials that its air attacks would plunge the region into chaos and asserted that a ground war would have horrific casualties for both sides.
"We warned that as soon as the bombing started there would be a flow of refugees," Mr. Ivanov said. "It was also clear that the strikes wouldn't undermine Milosevic's position. On the contrary, his position has strengthened."
"And we still warn that if the ground operation begins, it will lead to large casualties, including on the side that carries out this operation," he added. "You should know the history of World War II. There won't be a quick ground operation just as there has not been a quick air operation."
NATO officials argue that they put off air strikes for months as they pursued a diplomatic solution. They say the conflict in Kosovo might have been avoided had Moscow had more leverage over Belgrade and been willing to use what leverage it did possess to induce Mr. Milosevic to agree to the autonomy accord for the Kosovars.
Mr. Ivanov, however, argued that Russia can cajole and press, but not force Mr. Milosevic to agree to a settlement.
"As for whether Russia can persuade Milosevic, I must ask another question: Can the United States persuade the Israeli Government to implement what was signed in Washington in the presence of the United States President," he said.
"Russia has done nothing to bring the situation to what it is today," he added. "Russia is ready, not alone but together with others, to solve this political conflict. Everybody must participate in the process."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov says Belgrade is ready to bend. (Reuters)(pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (65%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (65%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (65%); INDIAN OCEAN (65%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); 

PERSON: CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); TALBOTT, STROBE (DEPUTY SEC); IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN); RUBIN, JAMES P BILL CLINTON (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



590 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE BLOCKADE;
Proposal For Cutoff Inflates Oil Prices

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

 BODY:
NATO's planned oil embargo of Yugoslavia has already created a black market in which Serb-backed buyers pay up to a 50 percent premium for gasoline and other refined products, European petroleum traders and other sources said yesterday.
Although the embargo is not expected to stop the flow of petroleum to Yugoslavia, it has greatly aggravated what was already a grave supply crisis. China, one of Yugoslavia's main providers of fuel and an opponent of NATO's campaign, recently terminated its oil contract with Yugoslavia because of $195 million in delinquent bills. And since practically all of Yugoslavia's refineries have been bombed, it has no use for crude oil and must now import all fuel in refined condition. 
 Russia, which last year supplied 40 percent of Yugoslavia's oil needs, is its only major remaining source of petroleum, said Chris Kushlis, an analyst with PlanEcon Inc., a Washington-based energy consulting firm that monitors Eastern European countries.
Unlike the Chinese, Mr. Kushlis said, the Russians are willing to sell Yugoslavia oil even though the country has not paid $170 million in overdue Russian bills. Traders reached in Europe today said Lukoil, one of the biggest Russian suppliers, has extended new lines of credit to Yugoslavia.
How much fuel the Russians will be able or willing to sell to Yugoslavia remains unclear.
But the embargo, which is expected to be enforced starting this week, means that deliveries by sea could stop.
"I think the biggest volume of smuggled oil will come over land," said Milan Vego, a former Yugoslav naval officer who is a professor in the operations department of the Naval War College in Newport, R.I. "Air power is good for some things, but surveillance of smugglers operating at night is not one of them," he said in a telephone interview.
A Geneva-based banker who extends credits to oil traders said he and other bankers had been contacted in recent days by wealthy Serbs, whom he declined to identify, who are opening letters of credit to finance purchases of petroleum.
Traders in Europe said smuggled petroleum cargo can change hands many times during the course of shipment so it would be difficult to tell where the cargo originated. But they said some of it could easily come from refineries in countries that have pledged to honor the embargo, including the United States.
Some traders said they had already seen evidence that buyers acting on behalf of Yugoslavia are purchasing refined petroleum at prices 20 percent to 50 percent higher than the market price.
"Anytime you have an embargo, you have a lucrative business," said the president of a middle-sized oil trading firm in London, which until last week was involved in selling to Yugoslavia. "All you can do is make it expensive to get the stuff."
This executive, who did not want to be identified because of the subject's sensitivity, said: "There are a lot of Yugoslavs among traders who have been doing this for a long time and they are everywhere in Europe. They are very good at it, particularly now that their mission is to get the oil at any cost."
Besides Russia, Yugoslavia has purchased oil from Croatia, Bulgaria, Libya and Romania. Yugoslavia had produced 20,000 barrels of oil a day at home, equivalent to a third of its daily consumption in normal times.
The NATO embargo was not a surprise to Yugoslavia, which had already taken measures to squirrel away supplies of refined petroleum for its tanks, armored vehicles and transportation system.
"Remember, the Serbs were among those who built many of Saddam Hussein's deepest underground bunkers and storage facilities," said another London-based oil-trading industry executive who has done extensive business with Yugoslavia.
By all accounts, Greece remains the weakest link in the NATO alliance. There is is great sympathy for the Serb cause in Greece, which has one of the biggest tanker fleets in the world. Although the embargo could stop them from supplying Yugoslavia by sea, traders said, it was likely that at least some Greek vessels could be the conduits for smuggled oil that eventually makes it into Yugoslavia.
"I think it would very difficult to supply them with enough oil to run the economy," said Andrew Avramides, an independent London-based oil consultant with extensive experience in the Balkan region. "But a small tanker here and a few trucks there will keep the army going if the will to fight can be maintained, which is a big if." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOSOVO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OAO LUKOIL (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOSOVO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BLACK MARKETS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NAVIES (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



591 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: New York's Vital Patches of Green

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was wrong to reject the Trust for Public Land's recent offer to buy more than 100 community gardens in New York City and to establish a permanent land trust for them (news article, April 23). In a city that is woefully lacking in neighborhood open space, these community gardens offer a welcome relief.
The Mayor mistakenly believes that the city would reap enormous economic benefits from auctioning these sites to the highest bidder. Unfortunately, history shows that most of the auctioned sites will end up as parking lots, storage sites for construction debris and other things unlikely to make money for the city. 
 A recent study by the Brooklyn Borough President's Office found that of the more than 400 sites auctioned in Brooklyn from 1990 to 1995, only six were being used for housing.
 
RICHARD KASSEL
New York, April 23, 1999
 
The writer is a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND; NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (91%); TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (91%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND; NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (91%); TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (91%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; PUBLIC PROPERTY TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GARDENING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); 

PERSON: KASSEL, RICHARD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



592 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
Fitch Agency Raises Malaysia's Credit Rating

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Malaysia's sovereign credit rating was raised to investment grade yesterday by Fitch IBCA Inc. The action may accelerate the nation's plans to sell $2 billion in bonds to recapitalize its banks and expand its economy. Fitch, a New York-based credit rating company, raised the rating two notches, to BBB-, the lowest investment grade, from BB, just below investment grade. It said Malaysia's widening current account surplus had bolstered foreign reserves. 
 Fitch also said that it might raise Thailand's rating to investment grade and raise South Korea's rating, which is already investment grade. Higher ratings make it less expensive for countries to borrow overseas.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FITCH IBCA INC FITCH RATINGS LTD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FITCH IBCA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS SOVEREIGN RISK (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (85%); TRENDS (82%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



593 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 27, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section E; Page 3; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: A Concert On the Web For Poverty

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

 BODY:
The organizers of two benefit-concert extravaganzas, "Live Aid" and "Farm Aid," are turning to the Internet for their latest fund-raising effort: three simultaneous benefits to combat world poverty that are to be broadcast live over the World Wide Web.
The promoters say they have verbal commitments from Sting, U2, John Mellencamp, Celine Dion, Lauryn Hill and Jewel to perform in the concerts, which will take place at Giants Stadium in New Jersey, Wembley Stadium in London and the Opera House in Geneva, Switzerland. The concert event, to be called "Net Aid," will be broadcast live at the Web site www.netaid.com., along with information about poverty relief organizations and other ways to help the poor. Other, shorter concerts are planned at world landmarks, with the Great Wall in China, the Great Pyramids of Egypt and the Eiffel Tower under consideration. 
 The plans are to be announced today at the United Nations today. The United Nations Development Program is a co-sponsor of the effort with Cisco Systems Inc., the Internet communications equipment company.
"The overarching idea," said Doug Wills, a spokesman for Cisco Systems," is to educate people about how much extreme poverty exists, poverty that isn't seen on the nightly news, and to provide a rallying point for individuals, companies and even countries to offer aid."
"Live Aid" and "Farm Aid" have raised $80 million for famine relief in Africa and to help American famers. The organizers will be working with Ken Kragen, Jeff Pollack, Don Mischer and Harvey Goldsmith, producers whose credits include several music-based benefits in addition to "Live Aid" and "Farm Aid." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about three benefit concerts to be held in New Jersey, London and Geneva, for awareness of world poverty, included an erroneous reference, supplied by a sponsor and a publicity agent, to the series producers' past credits. The producers -- Ken Kragen, Jeff Pollack, Don Mischer and Harvey Goldsmith -- were responsible for "Live Aid," "We Are the World" and "Hands Across America" but not for "Farm Aid." (The coming series, to be broadcast live on the World Wide Web, is Net Aid.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (87%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (56%); CHINA (54%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (85%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (87%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (56%); CHINA (54%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LIVE AID BENEFIT CONCERT; FARM AID BENEFIT CONCERT; GIANTS STADIUM (NJ); WEMBLEY STADIUM; OPERA HOUSE (GENEVA, SWITZERLAND) POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); FUNDRAISING (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMINE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); 

PERSON: SHATTUCK, KATHRYN CELINE DION (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999



594 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
Barolos Put on a Friendlier Face

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
I HAVE to confess it had been a long time since I'd had anything to do with Barolo, a treasure of Italian winemaking. You know how it is: so many wines, so little time.
Besides, there had always been an excuse to drink something else. Barolo had something forbidding about it. The Italians call it the king of wines and, in fact, there is a regal quality to it: words like monumental and powerful are used to describe it. The wine writer Hugh Johnson once complained that Barolo "gives the palate a wrestling match." 
 To me, Barolo was a powerful, astringent wine, like Hermitage and some old-fashioned California cabernets, that required years of tasting to understand. It was also one that was expensive and needed aging, usually about 10 years, to be drinkable. All reasons to put it on the back burner.
Then recently I heard that one of the better-known Barolo winemakers, Pio Boffa, was coming to New York from the Piedmont region to be the host of a tasting of the Barolos produced by his family's company, Pio Cesare. It seemed a good time for a reassessment.
First things first: Barolo is named after a town in the hills southwest of Alba. Turin, some 45 miles to the northwest, is the nearest big city. The official Barolo district covers 3,000 acres in and around Barolo and includes communes like La Morra, Castiglione Falletto and Serralunga d'Alba, whose names will show up on Barolos made within their borders.
Barolo is made exclusively from nebbiolo, a Piedmontese grape of ancient heritage. Once, Barolo was a sweet wine. In the 1840's, the French wife of a local nobleman hired a French winemaker, Louis Oudinot, to transform Barolo into a dry wine in the French style. The new style soon became the only style.
Pio Cesare started his wine business in Alba in 1881, making Barolo, Barbaresco, barbera and dolcetto. Mr. Boffa, his grandson, is head of the firm now and considers Barolo his signature wine. While respecting the traditional methods, he, like most other Barolo producers, has introduced some major changes over the last 20 years to make his wine somewhat easier to drink.
The results were clearly evident in the wines he opened here last week, which began with the 1955 vintage and included 1964, 1974, 1979, 1982, 1985, 1989 and 1990. There were also samples from the yet unbottled 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998 vintages, plus four examples of Ornato, his single-vineyard Barolo, from 1988, 1989, 1990 and 1995.
In the old days, Barolo was made in large Yugoslavian oak casks, some of them at least 40 years old. The grapes and their skins were allowed to ferment in these casks for up to two months to extract every bit of fruit, and tannin, which gives wines backbone. The wines were aged in these casks for eight years, then transferred to large glass jugs to age further on the roof, in the sun.
The resulting wines were inky-dark monsters. The winemakers realized that changes had to be made if they wanted to attract more customers. By 1978, the Pio Cesare firm had begun installing stainless steel fermentation tanks and cutting the amount of time the juice and the skins were in contact, to reduce the amount of tannin. Eventually, all the old Yugoslavian casks were replaced by small French oak barrels.
In an article last year in International Wine Cellar, a consumer newsletter, the wine broker Marc de Grazia said winemaking in Barolo had improved so much in recent years that "for the first time, we can taste Barolos from 20 or 30 producers that are all carefully crafted and taste radically different."
Certainly Mr. Boffa's wines varied considerably from the older to the younger vintages. Both the 1955 and the 1964 showed a freshness and vibrancy that few Bordeaux of the same age could ever muster. They are exceptional wines. The control of tannins in the younger ones produced richer, sweeter wines with none of the harshness once associated with Barolo.
Oak was evident in the Ornatos, but it was hardly intrusive. In fact, it helped fashion wines that combine unusual smoothness and elegance with the dark, smoky character typical of good Barolos.
Mr. de Grazia and other experts say that consumer interest has been shifting away from Tuscany and the so-called super-Tuscan blends of sangiovese with cabernet and merlot to the wine of the Piedmont. If true, this is good for the Piedmont winemakers, but less so for wine enthusiasts, because the Piedmont produces far less wine than Tuscany: fewer than 600,000 cases of Barolo are produced in a good year.
Barolo may be more approachable than it once was, but don't be fooled: it's still not a wine for casual drinking. Still, that shouldn't scare you away from what could be a great experience.
Other well-known Barolo producers to be found in the American market include Aldo Conterno, with his magnificent Gran Bussia Riserva; Bruno Giacosa, with his Falletto di Serralunga Riserva; Angelo Gaja, with his Barolo Sperss, and Bruno Cerretto, known for his Barolo Zonchera. There is also Elio Grasso, known for his Barolo Vigna Casa Mate; Luciano Sandrone, for his Barolo Cannubi Boschis, and Alfredo Prunotto, for his Barolo Monte Stefano, among others.
Pio Cesare Barolos range in price from around $35 for the regular 1993, now in stores, to around $90 for the 1993 Ornato. Many of the best Barolos, made in tiny quantities, sell for well over $100 a bottle, but for a newcomer to the wine it makes sense, both economically and enologically, to start with a simple example, like Grasso's Vigna Casa Mate 1993, at about $30.
 
TASTINGS
Out of a Blend
Trefethen Vineyards Cabernet Franc 1996, Napa Valley, Calif. About $20.
 A LITTLE less fruity, a little lighter-bodied than cabernet sauvignon, cabernet franc has made a name for itself in the Loire Valley and in St.-Emilion, where it is the major component in the wine of Chateau Cheval Blanc. In the Medoc and in Northern California, it's often blended into cabernet sauvignon to add complexity and structure. In Chinon and Bourgueil, in the Loire, it produces a red that is both fruity and lean at the same time.
The Trefethen displays some of that restraint, but the 10 percent merlot and 7 percent cabernet sauvignon that have been added tend to soften it a bit. A good wine and a nice break from cabernet sauvignon, but it would nice to taste the cabernet franc strictly on its own.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: PRIDE OF THE PIEDMONT -- The Italian town of Serralunga d'Alba is in the heart of the Barolo region. (From "A Traveller's Wine Guide to Italy," Interlink Books, 1997)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: TURIN, ITALY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; BAROLO (ITALY); ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); TURIN, ITALY (78%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J PIO BOFFA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



595 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Ejido Pino Gordo Journal;
All Across Mexico, a Chainsaw Massacre of Trees

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: EJIDO PINO GORDO, Mexico

 BODY:
The shepherds of this remote mountain settlement till the earth behind oaken plows and grind their corn between smooth stones. They have no television, telephones or electricity. Yet by one standard, the village enjoys vast wealth: it is surrounded by magnificent forests.
So when outsiders recently bulldozed a logging road and began applying chainsaws to hundreds of 200-year-old trees, villagers panicked. Men, women and children walked for 36 hours across a canyon to board buses for the Chihuahua state capital, where they held a sit-in at the Governor's Palace this month. 
 "We don't want our forests felled," a Raramuri-speaking Indian leader, Francisco Ramos, told authorities through an interpreter in negotiations that followed. "We didn't plant the trees, God did, to collect water from the rain and give homes to the animals. The trees are not our property. We're just taking care of them."
Government officials were stunned by the Indian protest and the news coverage it prompted, and Chihuahua state officials recently announced a halt to the illegal logging around the village in the Sierra Madre, about 850 miles northwest of Mexico City, at least for now. But a federal official denied that any decision had been made. Conservationists said they hoped for an environmental victory, but it was only one skirmish in a war for Mexico's beleaguered forests.
All across Mexico -- from Chihuahua in the north, to the central woodland preserves that are wintering grounds for North America's monarch butterflies, to the tropical jungles of Chiapas in the south -- timberlands are being cleared at a devastating rate. Poachers are even cutting the few surviving forest preserves around Mexico City.
"Deforestation is pushing us toward environmental collapse," said Senator Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, who has proposed legislation to create a National Forestry Commission with broad powers to confront what he calls an emergency. "The Government should declare a national forestry disaster."
The country has destroyed half its forests in four decades and, unless the devastation slows, will finish them off in half a century, Senator Aguilar said in an interview. Mexico's forests still cover an area larger than California. But since it is mountainous, Mexico needs extensive timberlands to capture rain water and prevent flooding, he said.
One year ago, wildfires that sent smoke clouds drifting into Florida and Texas focused American attention on the crisis. But far more trees are lost every year in Mexico to timber clearing or to the cultivation of crops than are lost to fires.
"Illegal logging is out of control," said Leticia Merino, an anthropologist at a branch of the Autonomous National University in Cuernavaca, south of Mexico City, who is studying timber poaching.
Some trees are felled by poor farmers who use the timber to build homes or to sell to firewood vendors. More destruction is caused by companies who engage in large-scale illegal logging, often in collaboration with corrupt officials, she said. Sometimes drug traffickers muscle in, using sawmill operations to launder drug profits.
Mexican forest policy has been marked by zigzags. In the 1930's, land reform gave 9,000 Indian and farming communities control over 80 percent of the country's forests, a higher percentage than anywhere else in the world. The communities, called ejidos, took on the role played by the Forest Service in the United States: fighting fires, planting trees and managing the harvest of timber.
But successive Governments encouraged thousands of rural poor people to clear forests for the grazing of cattle. The most damaging of such projects were abandoned in the last decade, but one farm program still pays rural people an annual subsidy for each acre of forest cleared for farming.
Currently, Mexico's entire budget for all forest-related programs totals only about $90 million, Senator Aguilar said. Responsibility for enforcing forestry laws across Mexico lies with just a few dozen inspectors.
Forestry laws passed in recent years encourage ejido communities to divide forests into plots and to sign timber-harvesting deals with logging companies. But many forest communities that sign timber contracts end up in peonage, owing increasing sums to logging companies each year, despite the harvest of entire forests.
In one Chihuahua village, for example, a logging company harvested 103 million cubic feet of lumber in 1992, yet at year's end the village owed $16,000 more than when the year began, according to village records.
David Barton Bray, an environmental studies professor at Florida International University in Miami, said that 17 million people still live in Mexico's woodlands. Policies should help them earn a livelihood from the forests even as they manage and conserve them, he said.
"For many peasant and indigenous people, forests are not only an economic resource, but also a spiritual wellspring and a source of ethnic identity," Mr. Bray said. Such is the case of the Chihuahua Indians who speak a language called Raramuri. They are often called Tarahumara by outsiders.
"Forests are fundamental to their cosmic vision," said Isela Gonzalez Diaz, an anthropologist who helped advise the Pino Gordo villagers during the recent negotiations.
Pino Gordo lies next to Coloradas de los Chavez, a rival village of Spanish-speaking people. Coloradas leaders are privatizing their village forests, and last year the federal Government issued a permit allowing the village to sign contracts with a logging consortium.
But the loggers soon jumped the boundaries of Coloradas, cutting roads into Pino Gordo's forests and felling trees there. Pino Gordo villagers complained to authorities, but got no response until the recent protest.
During the negotiations, one Indian leader asked why the Government would issue a permit to Coloradas de los Chavez to cut forests that are habitat for endangered fauna, including the thick-billed parrot and the jaguarundi wildcat.
"If we were to restrict the cutting of forests wherever there is fauna in danger, we'd risk being in the same situation as the United States, where most forest lands are now off limits to logging," responded Leonel Iglesias, an official from the federal Environment Ministry based in Chihuahua. "Mexico has economic needs that are different than the developed countries. We need greater flexibility in our forest management."
The authorities insisted repeatedly that there was no illegal logging in the Pino Gordo region and that the Indians were simply confused about their village boundaries.
But as the talks proceeded, journalists and environmentalists who traveled to Pino Gordo found men with chainsaws and hydraulic winches felling trees on Pino Gordo's hillsides. One logger, Curberto Bustillo Acosta, said each man in his crew had been cutting 200 trees a day in the area.
As the Indian protest drew news coverage, Government officials eventually agreed to send surveyors and other state and federal officials to Pino Gordo. By the time they arrived, the loggers had fled. But, seeing hillsides covered with stumps, state officials said they had ordered the suspension of logging that had already stopped. Federal officials said they were still studying the dispute.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Indians of Ejido Pino Gordo marching through downtown Chihuahua with banners protesting the illegal cutting of their trees. One banner declared that they would have no future if the cutting continued. (Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times)
 
Map of Mexico shows location of Ejido Pino Gordo: The forests surrounding Ejido Pino Gordo are under threat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; EJIDO PINO GORDO (MEX); CHIHUAHUA (MEX); SIERRA MADRE MOUNTAINS (MEX); MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LOGGING INDUSTRY; TREES AND SHRUBS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ILLEGAL LOGGING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RIOTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FOREST FIRES (77%); DEFORESTATION (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); PLANT CONSERVATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (66%); FIRES (66%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (64%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



596 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar had its biggest gain against the yen in a week on speculation that Japan will not spend more to help its economy out of recession. In New York, the dollar settled at 120.40 yen, up from 119.26.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japenese yen to the Dollar, since November 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



597 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: China's Muffled Protesters

 BODY:
The large, silent demonstration in Beijing last Sunday by members of a spiritual sect was the biggest protest in China's capital since the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square 10 years ago. Yet China's leaders allowed the peaceful sit-in to go on all day right outside the top leadership's compound, and there are reports that Prime Minister Zhu Rongji met with several members of the group. The Government has responded cautiously because the group represents a popular social movement. China's leaders are hoping to control a phenomenon whose ancient antecedents brought down several Chinese dynasties, and which presents a challenge of uncertain dimensions to Communist Party rule.
The Government estimates that Buddhist Law, the nonviolent sect that staged the protest, has 70 million adherents in China. Members practice a form of qigong, an ancient Chinese belief in the healing and even supernatural powers of harnessing a specific bodily energy. The Buddhist Law sect mixes qigong with Buddhism and opposes consumerism, rock music, television, extramarital sex and use of alcohol. Its leader, Li Hongzhi, was pressured to leave China and now lives in New York. 
 Qigong has not always been associated with nonviolent activities. In the third century a qigong-style movement that used faith healing and predicted the end of the world took over a fourth of the country and helped bring about the fall of the Han dynasty. Similar movements in the Middle Ages and late 18th century led to violent upheavals. Qigong was also central to the Boxer Rebellion against foreigners early this century, as the fighters believed qigong protected them from bullets.
Today, in a time of rapid modernization, unemployment, mass migration to the cities and a relaxation of Communist Party control of people's private lives, qigong is once again growing. It is so popular, and such a part of Chinese history, that many party leaders themselves practice some form of it. They cannot simply dismiss it as foreign, their typical slur on the democracy movement.
In the 1980's, the Communist Party began trying to attract support by adopting aspects of popular ancient doctrines, like Confucianism and qigong. The party endorsed the ancient notion that qigong beliefs were part of Chinese medicine. The leadership's strategy this week seems to be similar. It wants to avoid responding harshly, which could alienate millions, and is trying to befriend the sect's leaders and use its support to increase the party's legitimacy.
While normally any organized challenge to the Communist Party is something to applaud in China, students of Chinese history are wary of Buddhist Law. Hundreds of qigong organizations have sprung up around China in recent years. Some are simply health and exercise groups, but others are being used by demagogues. Especially if the economy slows, China can expect even more rapid growth in a movement symptomatic of people's search for meaning in a time of uncertainty. Whether it will be constructive for China remains to be seen. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) COMMUNIST PARTY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUDDHIST LAW (RELIGIOUS CULT) COMMUNIST PARTY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; RELIGIOUS CULTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS RELIGION (94%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HISTORY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); RIOTS (64%); POP & ROCK (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



598 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE;
Immigrant Planning a Window Factory in Queens

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
In 1982, when he was 27, Thomas Chen arrived in New York from Taiwan, looking for opportunities and planning to bring his wife and young son over to join him when he could afford it. He settled in Elmhurst, Queens, and found a job in a sweater factory.
He knew something about ironwork and soon he was making window guards in the basement of his building and installing them for homeowners. Then he rented half a floor in a factory building on Bergen Street in Flatbush, Brooklyn, to make aluminum windows with two brothers and an employee. 
 Now he finds himself running Crystal Windows and Door Systems, which is in 100,000 square feet of rented space at 131-10 Maple Avenue in Flushing, Queens, and will end the current fiscal year on Friday with $24.5 million in sales. Mr. Chen founded the company in 1990 to make aluminum windows for commercial buildings and apartments, and later expanded into vinyl windows. With a work force of 160 in Flushing, the company makes 200,000 windows a year. Mr. Chen's wife, Anna, arrived in 1983 and helped him build the business, he said. A friend in Taiwan, Kay Hsieh, is a partner.
Last June, Crystal bought a 174,000-square-foot site along 31st Avenue in the College Point Corporate Park in Queens, and he plans to start construction next month on a new manufacturing plant with 144,000 square feet of space. That a new manufacturing plant of that size is being built in New York City is unusual enough. That it is happening in the College Point park is particularly notable since it represents precisely the type of land use that city officials thought they would get when they designated 550 acres of land as the College Point Industrial Park in 1974.
Instead, despite the construction of a printing plant by The New York Times and one or two small buildings, it has seemed that retailing and office uses have become the chief elements in private development in the park. The word "industrial" has been excised from the name and replaced with the more general word "corporate."
Some of the more recent projects are more specifically retail- or entertainment-oriented. Last year, the Related Companies completed a 330,000-square-foot building for four retail chains -- Target, B.J.'s Wholesale Club, T.J. Maxx and Circuit City -- plus a Boulder Creek restaurant. It is on 20th Avenue, the main commercial thoroughfare through the park, running from the Whitestone Expressway across the flat development zone to the eastern boundary of the older industrial neighborhood of College Point at 130th Street.
Earlier, Waldbaum's built a supermarket on 20th Avenue, along with a training center for employees, and last year a new Staples store opened on part of the Waldbaum's site.
Now in construction on 20th Avenue is a retail building of 74,000 square feet, which will have several stores. The developer is Triangle Equities, a seven-year-old development company based in the park. Its president is Lester Petracca.
At another location -- the Whitestone Expressway at 28th Avenue -- Triangle Equities is developing the College Point Family Entertainment and Retail Center, a two-story building with 140,000 square feet that will have a 12-screen multiplex theater operated by National Amusements Inc. It will open next month. The retail component of the project, at street level, will have Toys "R" Us and Kids "R" Us stores. The architect is Angelo Francis Corva, of Manhasset, N.Y.
Development companies have been acquiring sites in the corporate park through the city's Economic Development Corporation. The largest undeveloped site is the former Flushing Airport, 75 acres of soggy land requiring deep piling, at a high cost, for new construction. Development prospects there are least hopeful. But negotiations are in progress on four more-promising sites, covering 17 acres, said Charles Millard, president of the development corporation. Ron Brill, who acts as a liaison for the corporation between park users and city agencies, is expected to have a permanent office there by the end of the summer.
The Crystal Windows land was bought from City Gates Manufacturing, a College Point maker of steel doors, which bought it 15 years ago intending to build, said Vincent Greco, the president. But City Gates ultimately chose to sell.
The irregularly shaped property stretches 946 feet along 31st Avenue between College Point Boulevard to the north service road of the Whitestone Expressway, where it has 233 feet of frontage. The architect, Raymond Chan of Queens, said the exterior would be metal-clad panels and the signs would be in English.
Since a sewer easement runs through the center of the land, Crystal plans to build separate structures, one on a single floor and the other on two, each one totaling about 70,000 square feet of space. They will be separated by a driveway over the sewer easement. Half the space will be devoted to manufacturing and the other half to warehousing and offices.
"We'll be able to meet our goal of doubling or tripling our production within five years in the new plant," said Robert E. Nyman, vice president for sales and marketing. The site was chosen because it is close to the main customer base in New York City and has excellent access to the highway system. The company sells to installers, contractors, window dealers and distributors, rather than consumers, Mr. Nyman said.
Crystal Windows is not alone among businesses that were founded by Asian immigrants in Queens and have expanded there. George G. Sirras, principal in Major Development Inc., a commercial and industrial brokerage in Flushing, said that his company has dealt with several hundred such businesses over 20 years.
Of those several hundred start-ups, "about a hundred companies survive in one form or another after five years," Mr. Sirras said. He added, "Crystal Windows is remarkable for getting to a sales level that it usually takes a family business two or three generations to reach."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map showing the location of the Crystal Windows site: The window plant will be bigger than most new factories in the city. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BJ (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (62%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (62%); T J MAXX (51%); COLLEGE POINT FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT&RETAIL CENTER (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE POINT FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT&RETAIL CENTER (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLLEGE POINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); METAL WINDOW & DOOR MFG (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); RETAILERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (66%); CITIES (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S THOMAS CHEN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



599 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Set Record Pace; ConsumerConfidence Up Again

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 27

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes unexpectedly rose to a record pace in March, industry figures showed today, and consumer confidence in the economy increased in April for the sixth consecutive month, suggesting economic growth could accelerate in coming months.
"Consumers continue to remain optimistic, jobs remain plentiful and wages continue to rise," said Brian Wesbury, chief economist at Griffin Kubik Stephens & Thompson in Chicago. "All of which is good news for the economy as we move into the future." 
 Home resales increased six-tenths of a percent last month, to an annual rate of 5.05 million, topping the previous record of 5.04 million set in January, the National Association of Realtors said. Analysts had forecast that March sales would register a 4.93 million rate.
Consumer confidence also rose more than expected, with the index rising to 134.9 this month from 134 in March, according to the Conference Board, a research group based in New York. The index is now at the highest level since last July.
Consumer spending has been the driving force behind the current economic expansion, the nation's longest in peacetime. Unemployment fell to a 29-year low of 4.2 percent last month, while inflation was running at a 1.5 percent annual rate -- the lowest in 13 years.
"When jobs are strong and consumer confidence is high, that puts people in the buying mood," said Joel Rassman, chief financial officer of Toll Brothers Inc., a builder of luxury homes.
Prices of existing homes rose 2.5 percent in March, the biggest gain since June, the realty group's report showed. The median price of a previously owned home was $132,700, up from $129,500 a month earlier. Existing-home prices have risen 4.4 percent in the last 12 months, mostly because of a 9.5 percent surge in the West.
In March, the average rate on a 30-year mortgage was 7.04 percent, up from February's average of 6.81 percent, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage-financing giant. In April, the average weekly rate has fallen back below the 7 percent mark, suggesting that the market may strengthen further.
Separate indexes in the Conference Board's report showed that consumers remained confident across the board. The index that tracks expectations for the next six months rose for the fourth consecutive month. The index gauging whether consumers thought jobs were plentiful rose for a second month and was near the high set in February.
Indexes measuring consumer plans to buy houses, cars and major appliances stayed in the ranges they have been in all year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOL (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (66%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (66%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (66%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (66%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (66%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; CONFERENCE BOARD FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (72%); TOLL BROTHERS INC (66%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; CONFERENCE BOARD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PURCHASE INTENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999



600 of 662 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Profit Surges 42% On Cost Cuts

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Even as it continued its flurry of deal-making, the AT&T Corporation reported strong financial results for the first quarter yesterday, exceeding analysts' expectations. But investors did not rush to buy AT&T's shares as uncertainty continued about the company's unsolicited $58 billion bid to acquire Mediaone Group Inc., the big cable television company.
Earnings for AT&T, the nation's biggest communications company, rose 42 percent from the first quarter of last year, largely because of an aggressive cost-cutting campaign by C. Michael Armstrong, the company's chairman of 18 months. More important, AT&T showed signs of finally emerging from the revenue funk it had been stuck in for years, increasing sales by more than 6 percent over the corresponding period of 1998. 
 As expected, AT&T also announced a partnership with the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, the world's biggest phone company, to provide comprehensive packages of communications services to multinational corporations in Japan and perhaps other parts of Asia. AT&T has formed a separate joint venture with British Telecommunications P.L.C., and if AT&T can work well with both partners, it will have gone a long way toward realizing its global ambitions.
But it is AT&T's ambitions in the United States that continue both to excite and worry investors.
One of the main questions facing Wall Street, not to mention the board of Mediaone -- which had already agreed to sell the company to the Comcast Corporation -- is how feasible AT&T's offer really is from a legal and regulatory perspective.
Naturally, those are questions that also preoccupy Comcast, which needs to gauge AT&T's offer before deciding whether to make a serious counterbid of its own. Executives close to Comcast said yesterday that while the company had weighed a variety of options, it had not yet decided quite how to respond to the AT&T bid.
The ideal development for Comcast would be for William E. Kennard, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, to denounce AT&T's plan to take over Mediaone as "unthinkable," just as Mr. Kennard's predecessor, Reed E. Hundt, did when AT&T tried to merge with SBC Communications Inc., one of the Bell local phone companies, in 1997.
But that seems unlikely, and not just because Mr. Kennard is more diplomatic than Mr. Hundt. The regulations on concentration of ownership in cable television are in limbo, and it is not clear that anyone in the industry, even Comcast, necessarily wants the situation resolved in a way that would prevent AT&T from acquiring Mediaone.
In 1992, Congress directed the F.C.C. to draft rules to prevent the cable television industry from becoming an oligopoly. In response, the commission issued regulations generally stating that no one company could own cable systems that covered more than 30 percent of homes in the United States in which cable television was available. These days, cable is available to about 95 million of the nation's roughly 100 million households.
A loophole in the rules said that a company could expand its stake to 35 percent if it did so by acquiring cable companies controlled by racial minorities.
The commission's rules were challenged by Daniels Cablevision Inc., which persuaded a Federal judge in Washington to declare that the law requiring the F.C.C.'s concentration rules violated the First Amendment rights of the cable carriers.
In response to that decision, the commission suspended its rules. Since 1993 the case has been sitting before a Federal appeals court in Washington, where it could drag on for another year.
No one really knows what, if any, restrictions on concentration will eventually be adopted and upheld. And that makes it difficult to determine the relative regulatory merits of the AT&T and Comcast bids for Mediaone. In fact, both bids might be in violation of the original rules.
Comcast, factoring in its deal to acquire Jones Intercable, owns systems offering service to about 9.4 million homes. Mediaone offers service to about 8.5 million. Together that is about 18 million homes, considerably fewer than the 28.5 million that would constitute 30 percent of the 95 million cable-accessible homes.
The potential problem is Mediaone's 25.5 percent stake in Time Warner Entertainment, a venture that includes most of the cable operations of Time Warner Inc. The stayed F.C.C. rules state that any active investor that owns more than 5 percent of a cable operation must count all of the homes potentially served by that operation in calculating the 30 percent limit. Time Warner systems may be available to as many as 18 million homes. Including those systems would raise Comcast's reach to as many as 36 million homes, far above the old limit.
For AT&T, the potential numbers are much higher. With its purchase of Tele-Communications Inc., AT&T already owns cable systems available to 18 million homes. Add in Mediaone and its Time Warner interest and the figure becomes as high as 44.5 million. And that does not even include TCI's numerous affiliates, which are available to another 13 million homes.
So in the battle for Mediaone, both AT&T and Comcast need whatever new rules that emerge to be quite a bit more lenient than the current regulations. For Comcast, the trick is to have the rules relaxed a bit, so that it can acquire Mediaone, but not enough to enable AT&T to do the same thing.
As complex (and potentially moot) as the stayed cable rules are, Time Warner Entertainment could pose yet another problem for AT&T.
When Time Warner acquired Turner Broadcasting System Inc., John C. Malone, who was then the chairman of TCI and who had a big stake in Turner, agreed not to acquire any more Time Warner stock. Comcast could contend that Mr. Malone's agreement now applies to AT&T and that AT&T would violate that deal by acquiring Mediaone and assuming its stake in Time Warner Entertainment.
AT&T's response to that possibility is that the Malone agreement applies only to Liberty Media, the programming operation that is publicly traded as an AT&T tracking stock but in which AT&T has no economic interest. That leaves AT&T itself free to invest in Time Warner Entertainment (or Time Warner Inc., for that matter), AT&T says.
Concerns about AT&T's Mediaone bid (which also include concerns about the deal's dilution of AT&T's future earnings) may have obscured a robust quarterly financial report for AT&T.
Including the effects of a recent 3-for-2 stock split -- but not including one-time charges and the effects of the TCI acquisition, which was completed last month -- AT&T earned $1.78 billion, or 67 cents a share, up from $1.25 billion, or 46 cents a share, in the comparable period last year. That beat the 63-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First Call, a research firm.
Including the effects of the TCI deal and special charges, AT&T earned $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a post-split share, down from $1.3 billion, or 48 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1998.
Propelled by strong gains in the wireless unit and in sales to business customers, AT&T's revenue, excluding TCI, increased 6.1 percent, to $13.61 billion, from $12.83 billion in the corresponding period last year. Including TCI, revenue increased almost 10 percent, to $14.1 billion from $12.83 billion.
AT&T's stock closed yesterday at $53, up 6.25 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); BT (NYSE) (91%); BT (LSE) (91%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (83%); CCV (NYSE) (83%); NTT (NYSE) (69%); NPN (LSE) (69%); 9432 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (70%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP; MEDIAONE GROUP INC; COMCAST CORP AT&T INC (95%); BT GROUP PLC (91%); COMCAST CORP (83%); MEDIAONE GROUP INC (72%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (69%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP; MEDIAONE GROUP INC; COMCAST CORP FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (70%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY REPORTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEVISION TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); CARTELS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH C MICHAEL ARMSTRONG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

 
