

801 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Pavlovian Economics Oct 12-18

 BODY:
STIMULUS After meeting with the heads of nine major financial institutions, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. announced that the government would inject up to $250 billion directly into banks in return for ownership stakes, to guarantee some of their debts and to expand deposit insurance. 
 RESPONSE: BUY! The action, meant to thaw out credit markets so customers would do business with banks without fear that the banks could fail, elated a stock market reeling from its worst week since 1933. The Dow Jones industrial average posted its biggest single-day percentage gain in 75 years. But there were few signs of loosening in the fear-choked world money markets. 
 STIMULUSBen S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told the Economic Club of New York that the economy was in for a rough patch and that it would be a while before the benefits of the government's coordinated rescue of the financial industry are felt in the economy. Export growth will slow, and the labor, housing and credit markets will take time to recover, he said.
 RESPONSE: SELL! Disabused of their exuberance by Mr. Bernanke's remarks and other signs of gloom, investors drove stocks sharply downward, erasing nearly all the earlier gains. Also, they continued to pour money into Treasuries rather than corporate or municipal bonds. 
 STIMULUS Newly reported data showed that the nation's factories cut output by 2.8 percent in September, the steepest monthly falloff in decades. Other new statistics on manufacturing and prices suggested that the economy was rapidly downshifting. Citigroup and Merrill Lynch reported huge write-downs and losses for the third quarter. The Swiss government unexpectedly announced a bailout of its largest banks.
 RESPONSE: SELL! Amplifying losses in markets around the world as fears of a global contraction in economic activity took hold in earnest, investors began to beat stocks down even further, approaching the lows plumbed during the worst of the previous week's gyrations. 
 STIMULUS Oil prices fell steeply because of slowing demand and signs that inventories are piling up at refineries. The benchmark price for light, low sulfur crude fell below $70 a barrel for the first time in 14 months; it had been trading for $145 a barrel as recently as July. Oil-producing nations called an emergency meeting to assess the situation.
 RESPONSE: BUY! Never mind that slumping demand for oil is a symptom of economic weakness; the prospect of cheaper energy, plus a few positive tea leaves in the credit markets, prompted investors to turn a seesawing day into a full-throttle rally in the final hour of trading, and the major indexes posted gains of more than 4 percent. 
 STIMULUS President Bush appealed to Americans to be patient and a bullish Warren Buffett said he was buying American stocks. But housing starts fell again in September, this time to their lowest level in more than 17 years.
 RESPONSE: SELL! The markets concluded a week of extraordinary volatility by closing down for the day, though up for the week. Still, the markets remained at their lowest level in five years after a barrage of bad news indicated that the economy was heading into or was already in a recession. Mr. Buffett, the Oracle of Omaha, said he saw opportunity in the carnage and was in a buying mood. ''If you wait for robins,'' he said, ''spring will be over.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CHEMICALS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BAILOUTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOUSING STARTS (65%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



802 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: On Global Warming, McCain and Obama Agree: Urgent Action Is Needed

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama part company on many issues, but they agree that the Bush administration's policies on global warming were far too weak.
Both candidates say that human-caused climate change is real and urgent, and that they would sharply diverge from President Bush's course by proposing legislation requiring sharp cuts in greenhouse gas emissions by midcentury.
Such rare agreement has both industry and environmental groups expecting a big shift, no matter who is elected, on three fronts where the United States has been largely static for eight years: climate legislation, expansion of nonpolluting energy sources and leadership in global talks on fashioning a new climate treaty.
But quick progress could be held hostage to the financial crisis and the prospect of a worldwide recession. The economic turmoil could force the next president to delay legislation that imposes major new costs on struggling businesses or raises energy prices for consumers. 
Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has repeatedly pointed to his longtime focus on global warming, including a fact-finding trip with other lawmakers to the thawing Arctic and his co-authorship, in 2003, of the first comprehensive legislation seeking mandatory limits on heat-trapping gases.
But in recent weeks he has taken heat from some environmental activists for statements on the stump implying that he might not seek mandatory emission cuts. His campaign has not said how the ailing economy would affect his climate agenda.
A high priority is helping revive the nuclear-power industry because nuclear plants produce no greenhouse gases, once built. Mr. McCain claims a byproduct of his nuclear push would be the creation of thousands of new jobs.
Mr. Obama, of Illinois, insists that his energy plan, which is largely framed around measures that could have climate benefits, would remain a top priority even in the face of economic troubles.
Rather than increasing joblessness, he says, his proposals to create federal programs to cut energy waste and to help Detroit retool and retrain to make fuel-sipping hybrids would create jobs.
A top environmental goal of both candidates is enactment of climate-change legislation centered on a ''cap and trade'' mechanism that sets a ceiling on emissions that declines over time. Businesses and institutions that cannot hit the targets must buy permits from those that achieve bigger cuts than required.
But the devil on such bills is in the many details. (A fight over such details also contributed to the death of a climate bill that the Senate debated earlier this year.)
The permits issued under Mr. Obama's bill would be bought by businesses through an auction before they were traded. Mr. Obama says he would use $150 billion of the auction revenue over 10 years -- a small amount of the total flow -- to help improve nonpolluting vehicles, wind and solar power, technology for capturing emissions from power plants, and other energy technologies. The brunt of the funds, he says, would help reduce costs faced by industries and citizens affected by the transition to a low-carbon economy. Mr. McCain's approach, according to his Web site, would distribute the permits initially at no cost, and move to auctioning ''eventually.''
Some economists and environmentalists have criticized the distribution of free permits as a handout to industry, noting that the European Union -- which initially set up its trading system that way -- saw the prices for pollution permits collapse. At the same time, some European power companies made windfall profits from their permits and ultimately heat-trapping gas emissions increased.
Mr. McCain would also initially allow businesses to meet all their emission targets either directly or by buying a kind of credit, called an offset, generated by, say, a landowner who can prove fields or trees are sopping up a certain tonnage of carbon dioxide or a business that can prove an investment avoided emissions that would otherwise have happened. His Web site says the fraction of emission reductions allowed through offsets ''would decline over time,'' but offers no specifics. Calls and e-mail messages to the McCain campaign were not answered.
Environmentalists tend to prefer Mr. Obama's approach, which many analysts say has less wiggle room and, in theory, sends a stronger message to companies that rely on fossil fuels to seek nonpolluting sources or reduce energy use.
Several representatives of industries said that, if forced, they would prefer the less aggressive targets and looser terms of Mr. McCain's plan. But some appear to think they will not need to choose for a long while in any case, given the state of the global economy.
''Most industries are sort of keeping their powder dry at this point,'' said Scott H. Segal, a lawyer and lobbyist at Bracewell & Giuliani who represents energy companies.
Without more details, it is not possible to estimate the costs of either candidate's cap-and-trade plan, but economists generally agree that Mr. McCain's would be less costly because of the offsets. But such offsets may also delay real decreases in greenhouse gas emissions.
Despite Mr. McCain's early focus on climate change and the need for legislation, some environmental groups have sharply chided him lately, pointing to campaign statements seemingly softening his stance on firm caps on heat-trapping gases.
The League of Conservation Voters gave him the lowest possible score for his voting record in 2007 on subsidies or spending for renewable energy. Environmental bloggers derided his choice of running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, who has questioned whether global warming is caused by human activity and who elicits chants of ''drill, baby, drill'' on the stump for her support of oil drilling offshore and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama also support ocean drilling and oppose drilling in the Arctic refuge.
Joseph Romm, a physicist who writes the ClimateProgress.org blog and is a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a nonprofit research group generally aligned with Democrats, said that Mr. McCain ''has provided ample evidence in the last year or so that he is not serious about clean energy and he has increasingly walked away from the climate issue.''
Mr. Obama, after taking heat from some environmentalists for championing coal use as an Illinois state senator, has been hailed by environmental groups for sticking with a mandatory cap on emissions with steadily rising costs for permits bought by polluters.
Still, his advisers lately have emphasized that he might have to compromise to get bipartisan support for a climate bill, something he has said he wants. Strident opponents of climate legislation, echoing the views of industry figures, do not appear worried that a bill will come together any time soon, no matter who is in the White House.
''I believe the current financial difficulties,'' said Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, ''will only reinforce the public's concerns about any climate bill that attempts to increase the costs of energy and jeopardizes jobs in the near term.''
Van Jones, an environmental activist from Oakland, Calif., and the author of ''The Green Collar Economy,'' has criticized Mr. McCain as the vanguard of a new movement with an environmental veneer but bad intentions.
''The climate deniers got chased out of town, but in their place you've got the rise of the Dirty Greens,'' he said in a recent interview. These are ''people saying 'I'm for solar, wind, geothermal, but I'm also for tar sands, coastal drilling.' ''
Over all, the hurdles facing legislation restricting gases released by burning coal and oil, which still underpin the economy, remain so daunting that many experts who favor capping emissions appear to be focusing on actions a president could take with a pen stroke.
Both candidates have said they would grant California a long-sought waiver under the Clean Air Act allowing that state to set its own limits on automobile emissions of carbon dioxide, the main human-generated greenhouse gas. The Bush administration turned down California's request in January.
David D. Doniger, who directs climate policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council and worked in the Clinton administration on the issue, said this move would set in motion a wave of pent-up state actions following California's lead, and the resulting bottom-up pressure could force Congress to pursue a climate bill.
The same upward push could result, he said, if the next president orders the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate carbon dioxide.
The Supreme Court, in a 5-to-4 ruling in 2007, rebuffed the Bush administration and said the Clean Air Act gave the agency the authority to restrict the gas.
If Mr. Obama is elected, such a move appears likely. Heather Zichal, policy director for energy, environment and agriculture for the Obama campaign, said he would reduce emissions through actions at the E.P.A. and other government agencies.
''While he strongly believes that Congressional action is needed,'' Ms. Zichal said, ''he is also committed to employing the considerable powers Congress has granted to the executive branch.''
Mr. McCain has not specified whether he would seek to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant.
Some environmental groups say the next president could attack the energy, economic and climate problems at once with a grand program to remake the electrical grid, greatly expand sources of nonpolluting power like wind turbines and solar arrays, and boost energy efficiency.
Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain have both picked up on that theme.
When addressing energy on the campaign trail, Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin have tended to focus on expanding supplies of fossil fuels even as they mention the need for solar panels, tapping geothermal energy and the like. They call this an ''all of the above'' strategy.
One of Mr. McCain's main talking points on nonpolluting energy sources is a promise to build 45 new nuclear power plants by 2030.
Energy specialists say that is a difficult goal because of the high cost -- one estimate is that each plant would cost $10 billion -- and unresolved questions about where to store nuclear waste. Another issue is the lack of American expertise in building such plants after decades of opposition.
Mr. Obama has given muted support to nuclear power but has repeatedly said his prime goal is an ambitious, sustained push for efficiency and new climate-friendly technologies, like plug-in hybrid cars and improved solar panels. Among other steps, he would create a national project to cut energy waste with federal subsidies to insulate one million low-income homes a year.
He and Mr. McCain continue to mention ''clean coal'' in the context of climate change, even though teams of researchers have concluded that investments in large-scale tests of ways to capture and bury carbon dioxide from coal combustion would be required on a scale far beyond the federal spending either candidate is calling for.
This series examines how the presidential candidates would handle the issues they would confront as president

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barack Obama at a news conference at an Indianapolis gas station about energy independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 John McCain, who wants to build 45 nuclear power plants by 2030, at a plant in Newport, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Climate Race: Some of the ways the two major presidential candidates say they would address climate change. (Sources: candidates' statements and answers to a questionnaire from Science Debate 2008) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); AUCTIONS (88%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



803 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3312 words

HEADLINE: The Guys From 'Government Sachs'

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and BEN WHITE

 BODY:
THIS summer, when the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., sought help navigating the Wall Street meltdown, he turned to his old firm, Goldman Sachs, snagging a handful of former bankers and other experts in corporate restructurings.
 In September, after the government bailed out the American International Group, the faltering insurance giant, for $85 billion, Mr. Paulson helped select a director from Goldman's own board to lead A.I.G.
 And earlier this month, when Mr. Paulson needed someone to oversee the government's proposed $700 billion bailout fund, he again recruited someone with a Goldman pedigree, giving the post to a 35-year-old former investment banker who, before coming to the Treasury Department, had little background in housing finance.
 Indeed, Goldman's presence in the department and around the federal response to the financial crisis is so ubiquitous that other bankers and competitors have given the star-studded firm a new nickname: Government Sachs. 
 The power and influence that Goldman wields at the nexus of politics and finance is no accident. Long regarded as the savviest and most admired firm among the ranks -- now decimated -- of Wall Street investment banks, it has a history and culture of encouraging its partners to take leadership roles in public service. 
 It is a widely held view within the bank that no matter how much money you pile up, you are not a true Goldman star until you make your mark in the political sphere. While Goldman sees this as little more than giving back to the financial world, outside executives and analysts wonder about potential conflicts of interest presented by the firm's unique perch.
 They note that decisions that Mr. Paulson and other Goldman alumni make at Treasury directly affect the firm's own fortunes. They also question why Goldman, which with other firms may have helped fuel the financial crisis through the use of exotic securities, has such a strong hand in trying to resolve the problem. 
 The very scale of the financial calamity and the historic government response to it have spawned a host of other questions about Goldman's role. 
 Analysts wonder why Mr. Paulson hasn't hired more individuals from other banks to limit the appearance that the Treasury Department has become a de facto Goldman division. Others ask whose interests Mr. Paulson and his coterie of former Goldman executives have in mind: those overseeing tottering financial services firms, or average homeowners squeezed by the crisis?
 Still others question whether Goldman alumni leading the federal bailout have the breadth and depth of experience needed to tackle financial problems of such complexity -- and whether Mr. Paulson has cast his net widely enough to ensure that innovative responses are pursued.
 ''He's brought on people who have the same life experiences and ideologies as he does,'' said William K. Black, an associate professor of law and economics at the University of Missouri and counsel to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board during the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s. ''These people were trained by Paulson, evaluated by Paulson so their mind-set is not just shaped in generalized group think -- it's specific Paulson group think.''
 Not so fast, say Goldman's supporters. They vehemently dismiss suggestions that Mr. Paulson's team would elevate Goldman's interests above those of other banks, homeowners and taxpayers. Such chatter, they say, is a paranoid theory peddled, almost always anonymously, by less successful rivals. Just add black helicopters, they joke.
 ''There is no conspiracy,'' said Donald C. Langevoort, a law professor at Georgetown University. ''Clearly if time were not a problem, you would have a committee of independent people vetting all of the potential conflicts, responding to questions whether someone ought to be involved with a particular aspect or project or not because of relationships with a former firm -- but those things do take time and can't be imposed in an emergency situation.''
 In fact, Goldman's admirers say, the firm's ranks should be praised, not criticized, for taking a leadership role in the crisis.
 ''There are people at Goldman Sachs making no money, living at hotels, trying to save the financial world,'' said Jes Staley, the head of JPMorgan Chase's asset management division. ''To indict Goldman Sachs for the people helping out Washington is wrong.''
 Goldman concurs. ''We're proud of our alumni, but frankly, when they work in the public sector, their presence is more of a negative than a positive for us in terms of winning business,'' said Lucas Van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman. ''There is no mileage for them in giving Goldman Sachs the corporate equivalent of most-favored-nation status.'' 
 MR. PAULSON himself landed atop Treasury because of a Goldman tie. Joshua B. Bolten, a former Goldman executive and President Bush's chief of staff, helped recruit him to the post in 2006. 
 Some analysts say that given the pressures Mr. Paulson faced creating a SWAT team to address the financial crisis, it was only natural for him to turn to his former firm for a capable battery. 
 And if there is one thing Goldman has, it is an imposing army of top-of-their-class, up-before-dawn uber-achievers. The most prominent former Goldman banker now working for Mr. Paulson at Treasury is also perhaps the most unlikely. 
 Neel T. Kashkari arrived in Washington in 2006 after spending two years as a low-level technology investment banker for Goldman in San Francisco, where he advised start-up computer security companies. Before joining Goldman, Mr. Kashkari, who has two engineering degrees in addition to an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, worked on satellite projects for TRW, the space company that now belongs to Northrop Grumman.
 He was originally appointed to oversee a $700 billion fund that Mr. Paulson orchestrated to buy toxic and complex bank assets, but the role evolved as his boss decided to invest taxpayer money directly in troubled financial institutions. 
 Mr. Kashkari, who met Mr. Paulson only briefly before going to the Treasury Department, is also in charge of selecting the staff to run the bailout program. One of his early picks was Reuben Jeffrey, a former Goldman executive, to serve as interim chief investment officer. 
 Mr. Kashkari is considered highly intelligent and talented. He has also been Mr. Paulson's right-hand man -- and constant public shadow -- during the financial crisis.
 He played a main role in the emergency sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase in March, sitting in a Park Avenue conference room as details of the acquisition were hammered out. He often exited the room to funnel information to Mr. Paulson about the progress.
 Despite Mr. Kashkari's talents in deal-making, there are widespread questions about whether he has the experience or expertise to manage such a project. 
 ''Mr. Kashkari may be the most brilliant, talented person in the United States, but the optics of putting a 35-year-old Paulson protege in charge of what, at least at one point, was supposed to be the most important part of the recovery effort are just very damaging,'' said Michael Greenberger, a University of Maryland law professor and a former senior official with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 
 ''The American people are fed up with Wall Street, and there are plenty of people around who could have been brought in here to offer broader judgment on these problems,'' Mr. Greenberger added. ''All wisdom about financial matters does not reside on Wall Street.''
 Mr. Kashkari won't directly manage the bailout fund. More than 200 firms submitted bids to oversee pieces of the program, and Treasury has winnowed the list to fewer than 10 and could announce the results as early as this week. Goldman submitted a bid but offered to provide its services gratis.
 While Mr. Kashkari is playing a prominent public role, other Goldman alumni dominate Mr. Paulson's inner sanctum.
 The A-team includes Dan Jester, a former strategic officer for Goldman who has been involved in most of Treasury's recent initiatives, especially the government takeover of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Mr. Jester has also been central to the effort to inject capital into banks, a list that includes Goldman. 
 Another central player is Steve Shafran, who grew close to Mr. Paulson in the 1990s while working in Goldman's private equity business in Asia. Initially focused on student loan problems, Mr. Shafran quickly became involved in Treasury's initiative to guarantee money market funds, among other things. 
 Mr. Shafran, who retired from Goldman in 2000, had settled with his family in Ketchum, Idaho, where he joined the city council. Baird Gourlay, the council president, said he had spoken a couple of times with Mr. Shafran since he returned to Washington last year. 
 ''He was initially working on the student loan part of the problem,'' Mr. Gourlay said. ''But as things started falling apart, he said Paulson was relying on him more and more.''
 The Treasury Department said Mr. Shafran and the other former Goldman executives were unavailable for comment.
 Other prominent former Goldman executives now at Treasury include Kendrick R. Wilson III, a seasoned adviser to chief executives of the nation's biggest banks. Mr. Wilson, an unpaid adviser, mainly spends his time working his ample contact list of bank chiefs to apprise them of possible Treasury plans and gauge reaction. 
 Another Goldman veteran, Edward C. Forst, served briefly as an adviser to Mr. Paulson on setting up the bailout fund but has since left to return to his post as executive vice president of Harvard. Robert K. Steel, a former vice chairman at Goldman, was tapped to look at ways to shore up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Mr. Steel left Treasury to become chief executive of Wachovia this summer before the government took over the entities. 
 Treasury officials acknowledge that former Goldman executives have played an enormous role in responding to the current crisis. But they also note that many other top Treasury Department officials with no ties to Goldman are doing significant work, often without notice. This group includes David G. Nason, a senior adviser to Mr. Paulson and a former Securities and Exchange Commission official. 
 Robert F. Hoyt, general counsel at Treasury, has also worked around the clock in recent weeks to make sure the department's unprecedented moves pass legal muster. Michele Davis is a Capitol Hill veteran and Treasury policy director. None of them are Goldmanites. 
 ''Secretary Paulson has a deep bench of seasoned financial policy experts with varied experience,'' said Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for the Treasury. ''Bringing additional expertise to bear at times like these is clearly in the taxpayers' and the U.S. economy's best interests.''
 While many Wall Streeters have made the trek to Washington, there is no question that the axis of power at the Treasury Department tilts toward Goldman. That has led some to assume that the interests of the bank, and Wall Street more broadly, are the first priority. There is also the question of whether the department's actions benefit the personal finances of the former Goldman executives and their friends. 
 ''To the extent that they have a portfolio or blind trust that holds Goldman Sachs stock, they have conflicts,'' said James K. Galbraith, a professor of government and business relations at the University of Texas. ''To the extent that they have ties and alumni loyalty or friendships with people that are still there, they have potential conflicts.'' 
 Mr. Paulson, Mr. Kashkari and Mr. Shafran no longer own any Goldman shares. It is unclear whether Mr. Jester or Mr. Wilson does because, according to the Treasury Department, they were hired as contractors and are not required to disclose their financial holdings. 
 For every naysayer, meanwhile, there is also a Goldman defender who says the bank's alumni are doing what they have done since the days when Sidney Weinberg ran the bank in the 1930s and urged his bankers to give generously to charities and volunteer for public service.
 ''I give Hank credit for attracting so many talented people. None of these guys need to do this,'' said Barry Volpert, a managing director at Crestview Partners and a former co-chief operating officer of Goldman's private equity business. ''They're not getting paid. They're killing themselves. They haven't seen their families for months. The idea that there's some sort of cabal or conflict here is nonsense.''
 In fact, say some Goldman executives, the perception of a conflict of interest has actually cost them opportunities in the crisis. For instance, Goldman wasn't allowed to examine the books of Bear Stearns when regulators were orchestrating an emergency sale of the faltering investment bank.
 THIS summer, as he fought for the survival of Lehman Brothers, Richard S. Fuld Jr., its chief executive, made a final plea to regulators to turn his investment bank into a bank holding company, which would allow it to receive constant access to federal funding.
 Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, told him no, according to a former Lehman executive who requested anonymity because of continuing investigations of the firm's demise. Its options exhausted, Lehman filed for bankruptcy in mid-September.
 One week later, Goldman and Morgan Stanley were designated bank holding companies.
 ''That was our idea three months ago, and they wouldn't let us do it,'' said a former senior Lehman executive who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly. ''But when Goldman got in trouble, they did it right away. No one could believe it.''
 The New York Fed, which declined to comment, has become, after Treasury, the favorite target for Goldman conspiracy theorists. As the most powerful regional member of the Federal Reserve system, and based in the nation's financial capital, it has been a driving force in efforts to shore up the flailing financial system. 
 Mr. Geithner, 47, played a pivotal role in the decision to let Lehman die and to bail out A.I.G. A 20-year public servant, he has never worked in the financial sector. Some analysts say that has left him reliant on Wall Street chiefs to guide his thinking and that Goldman alumni have figured prominently in his ascent.
 After working at the New York consulting firm Kissinger Associates, Mr. Geithner landed at the Treasury Department in 1988, eventually catching the eye of Robert E. Rubin, Goldman's former co-chairman. Mr. Rubin, who became Treasury secretary in 1995, kept Mr. Geithner at his side through several international meltdowns, including the Russian credit crisis in the late 1990s.
 Mr. Rubin, now senior counselor at Citigroup, declined to comment.
 A few years later, in 2003, Mr. Geithner was named president of the New York Fed. Leading the search committee was Pete G. Peterson, the former head of Lehman Brothers and the senior chairman of the private equity firm Blackstone. Among those on an outside advisory committee were the former Fed chairman Paul A. Volcker; the former A.I.G. chief executive Maurice R. Greenberg; and John C. Whitehead, a former co-chairman of Goldman.
 The board of the New York Fed is led by Stephen Friedman, a former chairman of Goldman. He is a ''Class C'' director, meaning that he was appointed by the board to represent the public. 
 Mr. Friedman, who wears many hats, including that of chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, did not return calls for comment.
 During his tenure, Mr. Geithner has turned to Goldman in filling important positions or to handle special projects. He hired a former Goldman economist, William C. Dudley, to oversee the New York Fed unit that buys and sells government securities. He also tapped E. Gerald Corrigan, a well-regarded Goldman managing director and former New York Fed president, to reconvene a group to analyze risk on Wall Street.
 Some people say that all of these Goldman ties to the New York Fed are simply too close for comfort. ''It's grotesque,'' said Christopher Whalen, a managing partner at Institutional Risk Analytics and a critic of the Fed. ''And it's done without apology.'' 
 A person familiar with Mr. Geithner's thinking who was not authorized to speak publicly said that there was ''no secret handshake'' between the New York Fed and Goldman, describing such speculation as a conspiracy theory.
 Furthermore, others say, it makes sense that Goldman would have a presence in organizations like the New York Fed. 
 ''This is a very small, close-knit world. The fact that all of the major financial services firms, investment banking firms are in New York City means that when work is to be done, you're going to be dealing with one of these guys,'' said Mr. Langevoort at Georgetown. ''The work of selecting the head of the New York Fed or a blue-ribbon commission -- any of that sort of work -- is going to involve a standard cast of characters.'' 
 Being inside may not curry special favor anyway, some people note. Even though Mr. Fuld served on the board of the New York Fed, his proximity to federal power didn't spare Lehman from bankruptcy. 
 But when bankruptcy loomed for A.I.G. -- a collapse regulators feared would take down the entire financial system -- federal officials found themselves once again turning to someone who had a Goldman connection. Once the government decided to grant A.I.G., the largest insurance company, an $85 billion lifeline (which has since grown to about $122 billion) to prevent a collapse, regulators, including Mr. Paulson and Mr. Geithner, wanted new executive blood at the top. 
 They picked Edward M. Liddy, the former C.E.O. of the insurer Allstate. Mr. Liddy had been a Goldman director since 2003 -- he resigned after taking the A.I.G. job -- and was chairman of the audit committee. (Another former Goldman executive, Suzanne Nora Johnson, was named to the A.I.G. board this summer.)
 Like many Wall Street firms, Goldman also had financial ties to A.I.G. It was the insurer's largest trading partner, with exposure to $20 billion in credit derivatives, and could have faced losses had A.I.G. collapsed. Goldman has said repeatedly that its exposure to A.I.G. was ''immaterial'' and that the $20 billion was hedged so completely that it would have insulated the firm from significant losses.
 As the financial crisis has taken on a more global cast in recent weeks, Mr. Paulson has sat across the table from former Goldman colleagues, including Robert B. Zoellick, now president of the World Bank; Mario Draghi, president of the international group of regulators called the Financial Stability Forum; and Mark J. Carney, the governor of the Bank of Canada.
 BUT Mr. Paulson's home team is still what draws the most scrutiny.
 ''Paulson put Goldman people into these positions at Treasury because these are the people he knows and there are no constraints on him not to do so,'' Mr. Whalen says. ''The appearance of conflict of interest is everywhere, and that used to be enough. However, we've decided to dispense with the basic principles of checks and balances and our ethical standards in times of crisis.''
 Ultimately, analysts say, the actions of Mr. Paulson and his alumni club may come under more study.
 ''I suspect the conduct of Goldman Sachs and other bankers in the rescue will be a background theme, if not a highlighted theme, as Congress decides how much regulation, how much control and frankly, how punitive to be with respect to the financial services industry,'' said Mr. Langevoort at Georgetown. ''The settling up is going to come in Congress next spring.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury faces, from left: Steve Shafran (formerly of Goldman), Kendrick Wilson III (ditto), Henry Paulson Jr. (you guessed it), Edward Forst (yep) and Neel Kashkari (see a trend?).(PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
Robert Rubin, right, an ex-Goldman co-chairman and a Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, promoted Timothy F. Geithner at Treasury. Mr. Geithner now leads the New York Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GROSSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Joshua B. Bolten, left, a former Goldman executive, is President Bush's chief of staff. Stephen Friedman, a former chairman of Goldman, is chairman of the New York Fed. This fall, as part of its bailout, the government put Edward M. Liddy, then a Goldman director, in charge of A.I.G. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES
DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); INSURANCE (72%); HISTORY (71%); HOMEOWNERS (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); EDWARD M LIDDY (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



804 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: The Mommy Track

BYLINE: By MARK HARRIS

 BODY:
ANGELINA JOLIE does not travel light. 
 A few weeks ago, when she arrived for the New York Film Festival premiere of ''Changeling,'' the new Clint Eastwood drama in which she stars, she brought along her partner of three years, Brad Pitt, and their sons, Maddox, 7, and Pax, 4, daughters Zahara, 3, and Shiloh, 2, and 3-month-old twins Knox and Vivienne. The eight of them had flown in from Germany, where the family has settled while Mr. Pitt shoots Quentin Tarantino's World War II adventure ''Inglorious Bastards.''
 ''We're all a little jet-lagged,'' she said, not looking jet-lagged in the least as she settled in for a brief stay at the Waldorf-Astoria before moving the clan on to New Orleans. Carrying a lot of baggage is something Ms. Jolie seems to greet with serenity -- as a mother. As an actress, however, she knows it poses a potential problem. 
 At 33 she occupies a rare place within Hollywood's uppermost tier of female stars. Wherever she goes, whatever she does, she cannot escape her several identities. The serious actress who won an Oscar for 1999's ''Girl, Interrupted'' and much acclaim for playing Mariane Pearl, widow of the murdered journalist Daniel Pearl, in last year's ''Mighty Heart'' is also the dominatrix-ish action dynamo who can open slam-bang guy movies, like this summer's ''Wanted.'' There's also the humanitarian activist who has served as a United Nations good-will ambassador and is now a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. And there's her role as half of Brangelina, an unincorporated business that remains the celebrity magazine industry's best bet for surviving the economic crisis.
 Ms. Jolie, who is disarmingly easygoing and more delicately beautiful and finely featured than red-carpet photographs suggest, said she mostly manages to ignore her alternate plane of existence as a tabloid sensation. She lives ''in a bit of a bubble when it comes to people's perceptions of me, which I'm sure is a very good thing,'' she said, laughing, ''because I'm sure it's not always very nice.'' 
 If Ms. Jolie finds the attention irritating, she's too smart to complain about it. But she admits that the wealth of available information about her could create a self-defeating conundrum. Her ever-growing fame could endanger her ability to do the very job that made her famous in the first place -- to make audiences believe she's somebody else. In short, to vanish. 
 ''Can I do that?'' she asked. ''I certainly hope so. I wouldn't put myself forward to do a film like 'Changeling' if I thought I couldn't pull people into a story because of all the other ways people see me.''
 In ''Changeling'' Ms. Jolie plays Christine Collins, a switchboard supervisor and single mother in 1928 Los Angeles whose 9-year-old son is kidnapped. (The story has its roots in a series of gruesome killings known as the Wineville Chicken Coop Murders.) Five months after the child's disappearance, the Los Angeles Police Department hands her a boy it insists is her son, and department officials attempt to destroy her life when she says they're wrong. The role, in which Ms. Jolie must embody the agony of not knowing if her only child has been murdered, puts her, in some ways, back in the wrenching territory of her last drama, ''A Mighty Heart.''
 When Ms. Jolie first read the ''Changeling'' script, ''I said, this is absolutely great, and I never want to do it,'' she recalled. ''I don't want to put my consciousness on children being kidnapped. But I couldn't forget about her. I found myself telling Brad and friends of mine the story.''
 ''Changeling'' arrived at an especially painful moment for Ms. Jolie. In January 2007 her mother, Marcheline Bertrand, died of ovarian cancer at 56. ''My mom, she was a very, very soft woman,'' she said. ''It was hard for her to yell, or even curse. But when it came to fighting for her kids, she found a strength she didn't always know she had. And there's a part of Christine that I connected to her. I kept pictures of my mom in the little purses'' that her character carries in the movie.
 Grief hit Ms. Jolie hard -- and led, oddly, not to ''Changeling'' but to ''Wanted,'' a blood-splashed, R-rated comic-book adaptation in which she gives what she wryly called ''my Clint Eastwood performance'' as a ruthless, almost superhuman gunslinger who utters barely two dozen lines. 
 ''I knew instinctively that I needed something before 'Changeling,' '' she said. ''I was depleted. I was in a state of just wanting to pull the covers over my head and cry about my mom. It was just too much. For me, there have been times when an action movie, even a 'Tomb Raider,' has helped me get out of myself and be physical again. It's like therapy.''
 Ms. Jolie, who says she doesn't particularly like to watch her own work, hasn't seen ''Wanted.'' The film has grossed more than $300 million worldwide. ''I'm glad it worked out,'' she said with a smile.
 She has, however, seen ''Changeling.'' ''Clint asked me to,'' she said. ''What are you going to do, say no to Clint?'' Except for a brief hello years ago backstage at CNN's ''Larry King Live,'' Ms. Jolie said she had never met Mr. Eastwood until she arrived on the ''Changeling'' set. But she knew of his reputation for running a tight ship and for finishing even complicated scenes in just a couple of takes.
 ''I can sometimes roll without even saying a word,'' Mr. Eastwood said of his filming process. ''I'll just motion to the cameraman, and he turns it on, and there we go. But she understood what things are like, and she was ready.''
 Ms. Jolie described it in other terms. ''It made me terribly nervous,'' she said. ''The first day it moved so quickly. There are big, emotional, heavy things in that movie where it was, maximum, two takes. So I woke up in the morning not feeling relaxed. I would make sure I understood where my character was coming from, I was prepared emotionally, my lines were crisp. I was more ready than I'd ever been on a film because that's what he demands.'' By the end, Ms Jolie -- who learned she was pregnant just before she was to shoot her harrowing scenes set in a mental institution -- said she felt ''this is how I should always work: I should always be this professional and prepared.''
 Since winning her Oscar almost 10 years ago Ms. Jolie has carved out a distinctive identity; unlike most other actresses of her age she is interchangeable with no one. Growing up, she said, she found her on-screen role models weren't actresses but rather ''Al Pacino in 'Dog Day Afternoon,' Brando in 'Streetcar,' Nicholson -- I just always liked the men.'' That may be part of the reason she has become virtually the only current A-list actress to achieve her status while completely bypassing romantic comedies. Nobody is ever likely to call her ''America's Sweetheart.''
 A dark period, when Ms. Jolie was cast as the man eater who broke up Mr. Pitt's marriage to Jennifer Aniston during the production of the 2005 caper ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith,'' is behind her. And although in her 20s she was prone to provocative statements about blood, tattoos and bisexuality, in her early 30s she has learned how to feed the beast while making it serve her purposes. Recently she and Mr. Pitt auctioned off pictures of themselves with their newborn twins to People and Hello! magazines, raising an astonishing $14 million for their charity, the Jolie-PittFoundation.
 Today her career strategy seems more akin to, say, George Clooney's than to Cameron Diaz's. She has amassed an impressive record in action-driven hits like the ''Tomb Raider'' movies and ''Gone in 60 Seconds'' while making regular (and generally less successful) forays into more serious work, most recently in ensemble pieces like the 2006 drama ''The Good Shepherd'' or lower-budgeted movies like ''A Mighty Heart,'' in which several critics suggested that her fine performance was undermined by the fact of her celebrity.
 ''Changeling,'' a big-studio drama that she must carry on her shoulders while submerging the tensile, sexually charged physicality with which she has often defined herself, is another step outside of her comfort zone. And while Ms. Jolie discussed the film with enthusiasm, it was evident that her mind isn't mainly on movies now. She has taken all of 2008 off from filmmaking and has only one movie lined up -- the spy thriller ''Edwin A. Salt,'' which will begin production in February and which, in an indication of her box office clout in action films, was reconceived for her after Tom Cruise dropped out.
 In addition she will reprise her vocal performance as Tigress in the sequel to this summer's ''Kung Fu Panda'' -- the only one of her roughly three dozen movies that any of her children have seen. ''It's a big hit in the house,'' she said. ''Jack Black is like De Niro to the kids.''
 After that, she said, she'll stay home for another full year, and she expects acting to play a diminishing role in her life as time goes by. For the past several months, since the twins were born, the older kids have been home-schooled, ''and they've had Mommy and Daddy every day for every meal, and they've been very close to us.'' It's not a routine she's eager to disrupt. Deciding to take a job is ''really hard,'' she said. ''Who's in school at that time? How can I be sure I don't do too many long hours? Can the three youngest be on the set every day?''
 ''As long as I can still be with my family, it's fun,'' she added. ''But I only want to do that, and I'm not looking for anything else.''
 About that family, she and Mr. Pitt aren't planning to stop at six. ''Oh, no,'' she said happily. ''I mean, I know we seem crazy, just bringing them in one after the other, but we do plan. We make sure one is absorbed completely into the family before we add another. There are moments when we look at everyone around the dinner table, and it's just crazy, but our family is the greatest thing we've done in our lives.''
 It's hardly surprising that the children are Ms. Jolie's focus right now. (''Just come tell me if you need me to pump,'' she said to an assistant before starting the interview.) She worries about the day that Maddox, who is now old enough to use the Internet, will ''look up my name and see some kind of sexy pictures or read a story about himself that isn't true. There's a lot we're going to have to explain to them about how public their family is.''
 Nonetheless, she said, she looks forward to the day when she can put ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith'' in the DVD player for the children; ''not a lot of people get to see a movie where their parents fell in love.''
 ''What's going to be funny is when they think Mom and Dad are a little bit cool,'' she added. ''Because right now, we're not cool Mom and Dad.''
 ''Even video games, you know, it's: 'Mom, you can't play this. You won't know how.' Oh, they all think I can't do anything, that I'm just there to snuggle with. But the other day Madd said, 'Can you do a cartwheel?' And I said, 'Yeah, I can.' And he was like, 'Wow, Mom.' And I thought: 'Oh, yeah. I can do some things. You wait. You'll find out. I'm capable.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Clockwise from top right: Angelina Jolie at the Waldorf-Astoria
on the set of her new movie ''Changeling,'' with the director Clint Eastwood
in ''Wanted,'' an action hit this year
and in ''Mr. and Mrs. Smith'' with Brad Pitt, who became the father of her children. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN VAUGHN/20TH CENTURY FOX
TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TONY RIVETTI JR./UNIVERSAL PICTURES
 JAAP BUITENDIJK/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (pg.AR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FILM (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); WRITERS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (90%); BRAD PITT (89%); CLINT EASTWOOD (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



805 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Day's Campaigning Shows An Inverted Political Plane

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and MICHAEL COOPER; Michael Powell reported from Missouri, and Michael Cooper from North Carolina and Virginia. Katharine Q. Seelye contributed reporting from North Carolina and Virginia, and Julie Bosman from Pennsylvania.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
There was the feel of a political world turned upside down on Saturday as Senator John McCain found himself defending North Carolina and Virginia, while Senator Barack Obama was greeted by huge crowds in Missouri, which Republicans had also considered safe just months ago.
 Mr. McCain has escalated his attacks in recent days, all but accusing Mr. Obama on Saturday of being a socialist and saying his rival's tax plan would turn the Internal Revenue Service into ''a giant welfare agency.'' Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, attached the politically charged word ''welfare'' to Mr. Obama for the second successive day. 
 For his part, Mr. Obama depicted Mr. McCain, who favors extending tax cuts for wealthier Americans, as removed from the reality of the hard times descending on the nation.
 Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, gave a striking sign of his electoral muscle when he arrived here and journeyed to the Gateway Arch on the Mississippi River. He saw 100,000 people spread out before him, a vast turnout in a state that teeters between the Republicans and Democrats. 
 Even Mr. Obama, who can wear self-possession like an overcoat, seemed taken aback. ''What a magnificent day the Lord has made,'' he said. ''And thank you for being here today.''
 The crowd offered a bubbling optimism that was at once tinged with a shot of wariness.
 ''Whoo! I am on a high to see so many people of so many colors,'' said Nicole Brown, a young woman who lives in St. Louis. ''I mean, I'm anxious -- is this real?''
 Others spoke of the economic anxiety, the dreary 401(k) portfolios and the layoffs that are beginning to ripple across the country. They lend anecdotal credence to the sense that the economic crisis has put a finger on the Democratic side of the electoral scales. 
 ''Even the most conservative people know we're in trouble,'' said Debbie Sachs, a teacher from St. Louis. ''People are scared, and he'' -- she pointed toward the stage where Mr. Obama was about to speak -- ''is cool.''
 President Bill Clinton, in 1996, was the last Democrat to carry Missouri in a presidential election. 
 The changing electoral map presents pleasant complications for Mr. Obama. He must choose almost daily whether to take his fight to the electorally rich states of Florida and Ohio, both rated as tossups, or light out for such Republican territory as Indiana, Missouri and North Carolina. 
 ''We've wanted to shatter the old assumptions about red states and blue states,'' said Mr. Obama's chief strategist, David Axelrod. ''We've been locked in this dreary formula where there are three states that determine the election.''
 But, Mr. Axelrod acknowledged, a state that appears safe, like Pennsylvania, could slide in a matter of days. And that gnaws at him. ''I still can't get any sleep,'' he said.
 That is why Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, was campaigning once again in Pennsylvania on Saturday, this time in Lancaster County, a socially conservative area between Philadelphia and Harrisburg. 
 Mr. McCain began his day in Concord, N.C., north of Charlotte. He spoke in front of a ''Victory in North Carolina'' banner and a North Carolina state flag, not to mention supporters wearing ''North Carolina for McCain-Palin'' T-shirts.
 Jimmy Carter, in 1976, was the last Democrat to win the presidential vote in North Carolina. Most polls show Mr. Obama with a slim lead there.
 The financial turmoil has forced Mr. McCain to spend day after day talking about the economy -- not his favorite subject, as he has acknowledged -- and separating himself from the policies of President Bush. 
 Mr. McCain once again seized on what Mr. Obama said to Joe Wurzelbacher, the Ohio man now famously known as Joe the Plumber, when he explained why he favored a progressive income tax over a flat tax.
 ''We learned that Senator Obama's economic goal, as he told Joe, is to, quote, 'spread the wealth around,' '' Mr. McCain said at the rally in Concord. ''We've seen that movie before in other countries and attempts by the liberal left in this country before.''
 Mr. McCain went further in his weekly radio address. He accused Mr. Obama, who favors giving tax credits to some who pay payroll taxes but not income taxes, of wanting to turn the I.R.S. ''into a giant welfare agency, redistributing massive amounts of wealth.''
 ''At least in Europe,'' Mr. McCain said, ''the Socialist leaders who so admire my opponent are upfront about their objectives.'' 
 Patricia Watts, 48, an insurance agent who was at the Concord rally, found herself balanced on a political fence until a week ago, when she heard Mr. McCain declare that he was not Mr. Bush. That worked for her.
 ''I realized,'' Ms. Watts said, ''you don't have to change parties to have a change.''
 She had briefly considered Mr. Obama, she said, but is now ''afraid'' of him and thinks he will bring ''socialization.''
 But contradictions pop up, as the government, led by a Republican president, intervened in the private sector by approving a $700 billion bailout to buy up distressed securities related to mortgages as well as interests in banks in need of cash. Mr. McCain's health plan is centered on giving $2,500 tax credits to people, regardless of whether they pay income taxes.
 And in North Carolina, Mr. McCain spoke of his plan to buy up distressed mortgages with some of that $700 billion.
 ''I'm going to spend a lot of that money bringing relief to you,'' he said, adding, ''We need to buy up these home loan mortgages, give you a mortgage that you can afford.''
 The electoral landscape has grown complicated for the Republicans in recent weeks, with polls showing closely contested states like Pennsylvania sliding toward Mr. Obama. He is also running well in Virginia, which has not voted for a Democrat for president since 1964.
 On Saturday, the Democrats distributed a transcript in which a senior McCain adviser, Nancy Pfotenhauer, told MSNBC that Northern Virginia, where Mr. McCain also campaigned on Saturday, was not ''the real Virginia.'' 
 But the Republicans have not yet waved a white flag, which is what brought Ms. Palin to Lancaster on Saturday.
 As Mr. McCain did in North Carolina, Ms. Palin repeatedly invoked Joe the Plumber. 
 ''So when he left Joe's neighborhood in Toledo,'' Ms. Palin said, ''our opponent didn't look real happy. Seems that the staged photo op there got ruined by a real person's question.'' 
 Ms. Palin, as has become her custom, did not take questions from the crowd or reporters. 
 The race is now all about confidence, trying to build up confidence for Republicans and guarding against overconfidence for Democrats. 
 In St. Louis, Mr. Obama, who is not immune to the vapors of overconfidence, caught himself talking about what he would do when he was president. He shook his head.
 ''No, no; I'm superstitious,'' he said. ''If I'm president ...''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John and Cindy McCain on Saturday in Concord, N.C. In a radio address, he verged on calling Barack Obama a socialist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Obama spoke to 100,000 people in St. Louis. He said Mr. McCain was removed from the reality of the economic hard times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); US 401K PLANS (50%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); RICK PERRY (58%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



806 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; POLITICS MANCHESTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Get an Earful on the Economy

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: MANCHESTER 

 BODY:
 LIKE in the national elections, anger and fear about the economy is the overriding theme for all of the hottest state legislative races in Connecticut this year.
 Candidates for legislative seats say the fear and anger seem to be mostly directed at Washington and Wall Street, but it leaves them to wonder about the effect it will have on their campaigns.
 ''That's all I'm hearing,'' said David Blackwell, a former Republican state representative from this small blue-collar city who is challenging the 16th Senate District's long-time Democratic incumbent, Mary Ann Handley. 
 Mr. Blackwell, 44, said voters keep coming back to worries about the economic meltdown. ''They let you speak, and then they go back to economic issues.''
 Mrs. Handley, 72, is also from Manchester, and she agrees that worries over jobs and high prices for gasoline, food and heating fuel are dominating the campaign: ''It's all anybody wants to talk about.''
 There are 151 State House seats and 36 State Senate seats at stake in this election.
 Democrats currently hold a 107 to 44 veto-proof majority in the House. The Democratic-Republican split in the Senate, 22 to 14, is one vote shy of the two-thirds majority needed to override vetoes by Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican. Mrs. Rell is campaigning for Republican candidates in the hope of preventing Democrats from increasing their majorities.
 Mr. Blackwell, like many of his fellow Republicans, is emphasizing the need to hold down state spending and restrain taxes at a time when fiscal experts are warning about a state budget deficit of more than $300 million.
 Mrs. Handley, following the Democratic playbook, says her party is the one people should trust to help the poor, the elderly and the middle class make it through the hard times ahead.
 She has served 12 years in the Senate representing Manchester, Glastonbury, Bolton and Marlborough.
 Intense interest in the presidential election is expected to bring a massive voter turnout that many politicians believe could affect legislative contests. Democrats hope Senator Barack Obama's popularity in this state will translate into a boost for their legislative candidates.
 ''There's nothing I can do about that,'' Mr. Blackwell said. ''I can't control John McCain and Barack Obama any more than I can control the weather, so I just don't worry about it. I do know that my signs are on a lot of lawns with Obama signs.''
 Leaders of both parties aren't expecting wholesale shifts in the legislature, largely because incumbent re-election rates in the General Assembly have topped 95 percent in recent elections.
 But there are a number of contests in which incumbents could be at risk, as well as several competitive races for open seats.
 In the 16th Assembly District, the incumbent, Linda Schofield, Democrat of Simsbury, is facing a rematch against the four-term Republican she defeated two years ago, Robert Heagney, also of Simsbury.
 There are also two other candidates in what is expected to be an unpredictable contest: Deborah Beth Noble, the Working Families Party candidate, and Robert H. Kalechman, a petition candidate, both from Simsbury.
 Officials in both parties say they are expecting another close race in the 2nd Assembly District, which covers portions of Bethel, Danbury and Redding. Jason W. Bartlett, 42, a Democrat, is a freshman incumbent facing his first re-election challenge for a House seat in what he said ''was really designed as a Republican district.'' 
 His Republican opponent is Melanie P. O'Brien, 53, a former town attorney for Bethel. ''I'm not having any trouble differentiating myself from George Bush and Washington, D.C.,'' she said, adding that voters are responding to her calls to control state spending. 
 Last March, Robert D. Russo, 33, Republican of Trumbull, won a special election for the 22nd Senate District seat vacated by Bill Finch, a Democrat who was elected mayor of Bridgeport last year. The district includes parts of Bridgeport and Monroe and the town of Trumbull. 
 Democrats are hoping their candidate, Anthony J. Musto, 40, the Trumbull town attorney, can retake the district for their party.
 One of the open House seats that is considered ''up for grabs'' by legislative veterans is the 9th Assembly District, where the incumbent, Christopher R. Stone, a Democrat, is stepping down. The district covers portions of Glastonbury, Manchester and East Hartford.
 Jason Rojas, Democrat of East Hartford, and Clifton E. Thompson, Republican of Manchester, are the opponents in that race.
 This election is the first test of a new state public campaign financing system that has already handed candidates more than $5.7 million in taxpayer money.
 ''It means for me, for the first time in many years, an opponent has the resources to make a really strong race,'' said Mrs. Handley, who has long supported public campaign financing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VETO (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); FOOD PRICES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); M JODI RELL (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



807 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ELECTION 2008; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: A Race to Keep Young Voters Engaged

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT'S youngest voters made their mark on this year's election when hordes of them volunteered their time and turned out to vote in February's primary, ultimately helping Senator Barack Obama defeat Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, according to exit polls. 
 Now, as Election Day approaches, campaign organizers in both of the major parties say one of their biggest challenges is how to keep the tens of thousands of newly registered young voters in Connecticut engaged as the polls show that Democrat Barack Obama is far ahead of his Republican challenger, Senator John McCain. 
 ''It is difficult,'' said Elissa Voccola, 21, president and founder of the College Republicans at Western Connecticut State University, who like other young organizers around the state is steering students to local races, which may not have the allure of working on the presidential campaigns. ''I've done a lot with getting local candidates onto campus so kids can meet them,'' Ms. Voccola said. ''That helps.''
 By last week, more than 217,000 new voters had registered in Connecticut since Jan. 1, about 42 percent of them 18- to 29-year-olds, according to the secretary of the state's office. 
 Sean Williams, a Republican state representative who, at 26, is the youngest member of the Connecticut General Assembly, said he explains to young volunteers that they can make more of a difference in local politics.
 ''Our job is not to energize them about the top of the ticket, especially in a state where the outcome is almost a foregone conclusion,'' Mr. Williams said. ''Our job is to get people excited about the rest of the people running.''
 Some young volunteers are working directly for the presidential campaigns in Connecticut -- which are largely get-out-the-vote operations designed to make sure the rest of the ticket doesn't suffer. The Obama campaign has two paid staff members in the state. The McCain campaign has none, with most of its presidential activity run by Connecticut Victory, an arm of the Republican National Committee.
 Many young volunteers are working on Congressional races. Jason Gould, 20, a member of the University of Connecticut College Republicans and chairman of the Connecticut Union of College Republicans, is getting volunteers in the eastern part of the state involved in the Second District race in which Sean Sullivan is trying to win the seat back from the Democrats, whose candidate, the incumbent Joe Courtney, eked out an 83-vote victory in 2006. 
 ''I feel like in 2006 people were motivated, but I don't think there was the sense of urgency there is this time,'' he said citing energy, the financial crisis and the dismal job market graduates face. 
 At Connecticut College -- which students describe as liberal -- students say Gov. Sarah Palin's nomination as Mr. McCain's running mate has motivated many young people to show more interest in the election.
 ''She kind of scares everybody,'' said Emily Rosenfeld, 21, a senior and vice president of the Connecticut College Democrats who said that Ms. Palin's presence seems to have made students less apathetic and that many attended a recent Women's Center discussion on feminism. 
 Statewide, Democrats have taken a slightly different approach to keep young people involved. ''My main job is to get people out of state,'' said Jennifer Just, a paid field organizer for the Obama campaign in Connecticut. That means trips to the two closest swing states, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania, and working on phone banks from Connecticut to swing states nationwide. 
 Ms. Just has relied on people like Ben Lazarus, 20, co-director of Yale for Obama, who since the start of the school year has organized dozens of students for two weekend campaign trips to Scranton, Pa., and two to New Hampshire, with more planned.
 In three weeks of phone banks, Mr. Lazarus said, Yale volunteers made 5,500 calls to Florida, New Mexico and Pennsylvania on behalf of Mr. Obama. ''We've never had a problem with enthusiasm,'' he said.
 Gary L. Rose, the chairman of the department of government and politics at Sacred Heart University, sees that enthusiasm firsthand. For more than a quarter-century every four years, coinciding with the national election, he has taught a course he calls the Politics of Presidential Elections and taken a busload of students to the inauguration.
 ''Normally, it takes about two to three months to fill a bus,'' Dr. Rose said. This year he filled it in eight days, and now is chartering two. ''I had kids lined up outside the door with their checks.''
 Also this year he is requiring students in his senior politics seminar to volunteer in campaigns. ''I think this election is really the catalyst or vehicle for subsequent involvement,'' he said. His students, however, most of whom did not even vote two years ago though all were eligible, were less certain. 
 Courtney Weaver, 21, a volunteer with Connecticut Victory, said it is tough getting young people to vote if they think it won't count. ''Yeah, their vote might not be heard in the majority sense,'' she said. ''But there are the smaller elections.''
 Caroline Saxe, 25, a volunteer with the liberal group Move
 On.org, said the motivation this election is Mr. Obama. ''We don't have a lot to look forward to, and I think Obama makes it look hopeful.''
 But asked whether activism by others her age would continue, she said: ''I don't know. I hope so, I really hope so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WORK: Yale volunteers for Obama, above, headed to New Hampshire. The G.O.P., left, held a Spanish-language phone campaign for McCain and others. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOE COURTNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



808 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Even in Good Times, Stash These Valuable Finds in the Cellar

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 127.04 points on Friday. The Commerce Department said housing starts dropped 6.3 percent in September, a 17-year low. President Bush warned that it would take time for frozen credit markets to thaw.
 The next day, miles from a beleaguered Wall Street, a man bought six magnums of 1996 Chateau Cos d'Estournel for a total of $2,000. Someone else paid $10,000 for three magnums of 2003 Chateau Ausone. A jeroboam of 1961 Chateau Latour sold for $38,000. 
 And that was before lunch was served.
 The occasion was an auction by Acker Merrall & Condit, which calls itself the country's oldest wine shop and is a leading wine auction house. On Saturday, Acker Merrall & Condit sold thousands of bottles of fine, rare and collectible wine and Champagne. The auction lunch, held at the restaurant Le Bernardin on West 51st Street in Midtown Manhattan, was a reminder that reports of a sagging economy should be kept in perspective.
 Waiters with steady, unrushed hands poured tall glasses of Krug Grande Cuvee Champagne. Standard wine bottles contain 0.75 liters. Many of those sold on Saturday were of larger varieties, including magnums, which hold 1.5 liters, or feed-a-family-of-four-style imperials, at 6 liters.
 Paddle 452 paid $3,200 for three bottles of 1973 Dom Perignon. Paddle 1071 bought three double magnums of 1989 Chateau Petrus for $55,000, and was not even in the room, but on the phone, as were other bidders. By the end of the day, between $4 million and $5 million worth of wine and Champagne was sold.
 But even here, the state of the economy was acutely felt. Prebidding was slower than usual, a development that John Kapon, Acker's president and auction director, blamed on the economy. ''There's less bidding in advance than we would have had 6 or 12 months ago,'' he said. ''It means more people sitting on the sidelines, perhaps.''
 But midway through the six-hour auction, the action picked up. About 350 people -- roughly 100 at Le Bernardin and another 250 absentee bidders -- took part. Mr. Kapon stood at the lectern, orchestrating the bidding as people dined on a four-course lunch, the selections including white tuna poached in extra virgin olive oil and bread-crusted red snapper with basil-scented tomato consomme.
 Men and women mingled in the restaurant's plushly carpeted, dimly lighted dining room, sipping Champagne, laughing, smiling. A brief bidding skirmish broke out over a double magnum of 1961 Chateau Palmer. Minute by minute, Mr. Kapon announced winning bids of $2,200 and $4,200 and $6,000 and $11,000.
 Bidders said one of the reasons the auction attracted such interest in these tight economic times was because of the source of the collection. The wines being sold were from the cellar of Wolfgang Grunewald, a renowned Swiss collector whose collection Mr. Kapon called ''one of the last great collections of the 20th century.''
 Wendy Agah, a wine consultant for private collectors, including Acker Merrall, bought a number of bottles, both for clients and for her personal collection. She spent $12,500 on a magnum of 2002 Romanee Conti. She said she was putting into practice words of wisdom from Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor who has famously spoken of being greedy when others are fearful. She said she spent $250,000 at the auction.
 Mrs. Agah, who lives in Westport, Conn., and has a second residence in Manhattan, bought a 1996 Romanee Conti for $14,000. That price was far lower than its bidding estimate of $15,000 to $20,000 in the auction catalog. She considered it a steal. ''I'm not going to sell it quickly,'' she said. ''But I know it's a great longer-term investment.''
 Some bidders seemed to be watching their wallets. ''Looking for $4,500,'' Mr. Kapon said of six magnums of 1996 Chateau Ausone. ''Anyone? 45?'' With no takers, he passed on the bottles.
 For other bottles, Mr. Kapon was looking for a $6,000 bid but only got $5,500, and looking for $2,200 but getting only $2,000. And there was at least one sign of a cutback. The four-course lunch accompanied by complimentary tastings at Le Bernardin, one of the most acclaimed and most expensive eating establishments in the world, was only $100. ''We were trying to give people a nice deal,'' Mr. Kapon said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Kapon, at the lectern, president of Acker Merrall & Condit, presided over the sale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); WINE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (69%)

COMPANY: ACKER MERRALL & CONDIT CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445310 BEER, WINE & LIQUOR STORES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



809 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; TBR; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: TBR: Inside the List

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
THE BACKLIST: Twenty years ago this week, on Oct. 16, 1988, the Bush-Dukakis race was in its final weeks and the No. 1 book on The Times's fiction list was ''The Cardinal of the Kremlin,'' a Jack Ryan thriller by Tom Clancy. That week's list also held novels by Anne Tyler (''Breathing Lessons''), Thomas Harris (''The Silence of the Lambs''), Tom Wolfe (''The Bonfire of the Vanities'') and Gabriel Garcia Marquez (''Love in the Time of Cholera''). What was on the nonfiction side? Here are the top 10, along with the descriptions that ran then: 
 1) ''A Brief History of Time,'' by Stephen W. Hawking. (Bantam, $18.95.) A British scientist's review of efforts to create a unified theory of the universe. 
 2) ''The Ragman's Son,'' by Kirk Douglas. (Simon & Schuster, $21.95.) The actor recalls his life as a poor immigrant's son, waiter, steel mill worker, haberdashery salesman, film star, father and man. 
 3) ''The Lives of John Lennon,'' by Albert Goldman. (Morrow, $22.95.) The rock 'n' roll star as legend and human being. 
 4) ''The Boz,'' by Brian Bosworth with Rick Reilly. (Doubleday, $17.95.) The autobiography of the Seattle Seahawks football player. 
 5) ''Surviving the Great Depression of 1990,'' by Ravi Batra. (Simon & Schuster, $18.95.) What Americans and their government should do in the face of economic disaster. 
 6) ''Senatorial Privilege,'' by Leo Damore. (Regnery Gateway, $19.95.) A reporter's reassessment of the 1969 accident on Chappaquiddick Island. 
 7) ''The Duchess of Windsor,'' by Charles Higham. (McGraw-Hill, $17.95.) The life of the woman from Baltimore who married King Edward VIII. 
 8) ''Landslide,'' by Jane Mayer and Doyle McManus. (Houghton Mifflin, $21.95.) Two Washington reporters on ''the unmaking of the president, 1984-1988.'' 
 9) ''Generation of Swine,'' by Hunter S. Thompson (Summit, $18.95.) Commentary on the current decade. 
 10) ''Transformation,'' by Whitley Strieber. (Beech Tree/Morrow, $18.95.) The author of ''Communion'' tells of more confrontations with ''intelligent nonhumans.'' 
 NOTES:''The Snowball,'' a 960-page biography of Warren Buffett, is the new No. 1 book on the nonfiction list, pushing Thomas L. Friedman's ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded'' down to No. 3. The book's author, Alice Schroeder, writes that Buffett told her about his own memories: ''Whenever my version is different from somebody else's . . . use the less flattering version.'' New and cute at No. 2: ''Dewey: The Small-Town Library Cat Who Touched the World.'' 
 IN TRANSLATION: The 2009 edition of the Guinness Book of World Records is No. 3 on the hardcover advice list. There are some notable new entries, like ''Largest Liquor Store,'' a shop called Daveco Liquors in Thornton, Colo. The store opened in 2006 and is big enough, the editors say, ''to accomodate 35 tennis courts!'' There are new literary entries as well. The ''most translated living author'' is revealed to be Paulo Coelho, whose novel ''The Alchemist'' has been issued in 67 languages.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); SPORTS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (51%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (79%); BRIAN KEITH BOSWORTH (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (70%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



810 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8603 words

HEADLINE: WILL GUN-TOTTING, CHURCHGOING WHITE GUYS PULL THE LEVER FOR OBAMA?

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
For a guy who just four years ago was running his first statewide campaign, Barack Obama has made startlingly few missteps as a presidential candidate. But the moment Obama would most like to take back now, if he could, was the one last April when, speaking to a small gathering of Bay Area contributors, he said that small-town voters in Pennsylvania and other states had grown ''bitter'' over lost jobs, which caused them to ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy toward people who aren't like them.'' That comment, subsequently posted by a blogger for the Huffington Post, undercut one of the central premises of Obama's campaign, an argument he first floated in his famous 2004 convention address -- that he could somehow erode the tired distinctions between red states and blue ones and appeal to disaffected white men who had written off national Democrats as hopelessly elitist. Instead, in the weeks that followed, white working-class primary voters, not only in industrial states like Pennsylvania but also in rural states like Kentucky and West Virginia, rejected his candidacy by wide margins, and he staggered, wounded, toward the nomination. 
''That was my biggest boneheaded move,'' Obama told me recently. We were sitting across from each other on his plane, the one with the big red, white and blue ''O'' on the tail, flying some 35,000 feet above Nebraska. ''How it was interpreted in the press was Obama talking to a bunch of wine-sipping San Francisco liberals with an anthropological view toward white working-class voters. And I was actually making the reverse point, clumsily, which is that these voters have a right to be frustrated because they've been ignored. And because Democrats haven't met them halfway on cultural issues, we've not been able to communicate to them effectively an economic agenda that would help broaden our coalition.''
Obama was wearing his classic starched white shirt (how many of those shirts does he have, exactly?), along with a tie the color of a robin's egg. One on one, he has a crisp and effortless conversational style; his answers are thoughtful, but you rarely glimpse the thought process itself, the internal calibrations that every politician is constantly making. The only outward sign that Obama is laboring over his formulations is the way he will often elongate the word ''and'' for several seconds, a processing hitch that enables him to preview in his own head what he is about to tell you, like one of those five-second delays the networks use so they can bleep out profanity.
''I mean, part of what I was trying to say to that group in San Francisco was, 'You guys need to stop thinking that issues like religion or guns are somehow wrong,' '' he continued. ''Because, in fact, if you've grown up and your dad went out and took you hunting, and that is part of your self-identity and provides you a sense of continuity and stability that is unavailable in your economic life, then that's going to be pretty important, and rightfully so. And if you're watching your community lose population and collapse but your church is still strong and the life of the community is centered around that, well then, you know, we'd better be paying attention to that.''
In a few minutes, Obama would arrive in Colorado for a campaign stop, followed by another in Nevada -- two critical states that neither of the previous two Democratic nominees, Al Gore and John Kerry, came all that close to winning, largely because of their abject failure to connect with white men, especially lower- and middle-class men in rural and exurban counties. A few weeks earlier, I watched Obama campaign in the coal country of Appalachian Virginia, where no one I talked to could remember ever seeing a Democratic nominee come through town. I asked Obama how he thought he could convey to these voters that he was not, in fact, an anthropological observer of the culture. Four years ago, Kerry, a man who was once actually pretty comfortable holding a semiautomatic weapon, donned his hunting gear and traipsed into the woods of Ohio, trailed by cameras, to shoot some geese. The stunt made him look absurd, like an investment banker at rock-'n'-roll fantasy camp.
''First,'' Obama said, ''you have to show up. I've been to Elko, Nev., now three times.''
''Elko?'' I asked twice, straining to hear him over the engine noise.
''E-L-K-O.'' He sounded vaguely annoyed, as if I had just confirmed something about the media he had long suspected. ''That, by the way, is the reason we got more delegates out of Nevada, even though we lost the popular vote there during the primary. We lost Las Vegas and Clark County, but we won handily in rural Nevada. And a lot of it just had to do with the fact that folks thought: Man, the guy is showing up. He's set up an office. He's doing real organizing. He's talking to people.
''No. 2 is how we talk about issues,'' Obama went on. ''To act like hunting, like somebody who wants firearms just doesn't get it -- that kind of condescension has to be purged from our vocabulary. And that's why that whole 'bittergate' episode was so bitter for me. It was like: Oh, this is exactly what I wanted to avoid. This is what for the last five or six years I've been trying to push away from.''
As we talked, consequential events were reshaping the world below. At that very moment, Republicans in Washington were scuttling a $700 billion emergency plan for Wall Street, causing the markets to hemorrhage more value in a single day, in terms of sheer dollar amounts, than at any time in American history and dragging the economy back into the center of the campaign -- precisely where John McCain and the Republicans didn't want it. And yet, what Obama and I were discussing, this cultural disconnect between Democrats and large swaths of white men, remained a lingering and crucial question. It now appeared that the only thing that could still threaten Obama's march to the presidency was the same resistance from these voters that had, at the last moment, dashed the dreams of both his Democratic predecessors. Gore and Kerry tried, somewhat dutifully, to prove their cultural affinity for regular white guys; when that didn't work, they tried to change the subject to policy platforms instead, hoping in vain that voters would just sort of forget about all that guns and church stuff. In both cases, that failure translated directly into defeat. According to exit polls in 2004, Kerry lost white men by a crushing 25-point margin.
Given the fact that he is not, in fact, a white male, Obama would seem to face an even-less-forgiving landscape among white-male voters. While voters overall give Obama the advantage over John McCain when asked which candidate is better equipped to navigate these tumultuous economic times, Gallup polls throughout the summer and into the fall consistently showed McCain with a double-digit lead among white men who haven't been to college.
And yet Obama has persevered, devoting far more time and money than either of the last two Democratic nominees on an effort to persuade working-class and rural white guys that he is not the elitist, alien figure they may be inclined to think he is. The Obama campaign has more than 50 state offices throughout Virginia, a state no Democrat has seriously contested since Obama was a teenager. In Indiana, there are 42 offices; in North Carolina, another 45.
Mathematically, Obama can probably win the election without winning any of these states -- or Nevada or Montana or any of the other conservative states where he has campaigned in the past several months. What he probably can't do, if he doesn't convert enough voters to throw at least a few traditionally red states into the blue column, is get beyond what he dismissively refers to as the ''50-plus-1'' governing model, the idea that a president need only represent 50 percent of the country (plus 1 additional vote) to command the office. From the start, Obama has aspired not simply to win but also to stand as a kind of generational break from the polarized era of the boomers, to become the first president in at least 20 years to claim anything more than the most fragile mandate for his agenda. Absent that, even if he wins, Obama could wake up on Nov. 5 as yet another president-elect of half the people, perched uncomfortably on the edge of an impassable cultural divide.
WHENLYNDON JOHNSONSIGNED the Civil Rights Act of 1964, he famously predicted that his party had just signed away the South for a generation to come. In truth, the outcome was more profound than Johnson could have imagined. The culture war, whose Bunker Hill was the campus quad of the 1960s, soon spread to just about every region of the country, where rural and working-class white voters, already anxious over economic change, recoiled at the vehement strain of antimilitary, antiestablishment liberalism that took hold of the Democratic Party in the era after Selma and Saigon. The effect, especially on the presidential level, was immediate and drastic. In the 32 years before Johnson made his pronouncement, Democrats controlled the White House for all but 8 of them, and only twice -- in 1948 and 1960 -- had the Democrat won by what could be considered a narrow margin. In the four decades since, only two Democrats have managed to get elected, and only one has claimed a majority of the popular vote. (This was Jimmy Carter, who eked out exactly 50.1 percent without winning a single state west of Texas.) By the turn of the century, almost completely driven from the South and West, Democratic presidential candidates had taken to focusing all their efforts on an ever-shrinking pool of coastal and industrial states.
Obama, though, has talked from the beginning about running a ''50-state'' campaign, and he has spent considerable time and money in more culturally conservative parts of the country where Democrats rarely, if ever, venture, from Elko and Appalachia to Billings, Mont., and Las Cruces, N.M. To a large extent, this reflects Obama's personal conviction about modern politics, which he first laid out in his 2004 convention speech when he talked about worshiping ''an awesome God in the blue states'' and having ''gay friends in the red states.'' He told me, when we talked, that Washington's us-versus-them divisions had made it impossible for any president to find solutions to a series of generational challenges, from Iraq to global climate change. ''If voters are similarly polarized and if they're seeing two different realities, a Sean Hannity reality and a Keith Olbermann reality, then we're not going to be able to get done the work we need to get done,'' Obama said.
It is also true, however, that a series of circumstances beyond his control have conspired to make a truly national campaign more feasible for Obama than for any Democrat since Carter ran in the dark days after Watergate. First, of course, there is the national sense of despair over the Bush era, which has made the president more of a uniter than he ever intended and which has enabled Democrats to get a hearing in parts of the country where they were being run off the land 10 years ago. Then there's the advent of the Internet as a veritable money vacuum, which has enabled Obama to raise more money than any Democrat in history (about $460 million, at last count), meaning he can afford to pour some resources into states he has only a remote chance of winning. Perhaps most important, though, Obama's campaign has also been able to take advantage of a drawn-out Democratic primary campaign that came through all 50 states before it was over -- a draining experience that nonetheless established networks of volunteers and newly registered Democratic voters in states that in any other year would have been overlooked. In three states -- Texas, Indiana and North Carolina -- more people voted in Democratic primaries this year than voted for Kerry on Election Day in 2004.
For Obama's political advisers, expanding the electoral map is not about making a philosophical statement; it is simply a strategic imperative. Presidential campaigns, after all, are about getting to 270 -- the minimum number of electoral votes needed to win. In relying on the same 20 or so winnable states over the past few elections, Democratic nominees have given themselves almost no margin for error. By contrast, Obama's campaign, in addition to fighting for the usual complement of about a dozen swing states, has shifted considerable resources into a group of states -- the list has, at one time or another, included Virginia, North Carolina, Indiana, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota and Georgia -- that haven't been strongly contested for at least three elections, if not longer. (Alaska was on the list, too, until McCain chose Sarah Palin as his running mate.) The idea here is that the more states you put in play, the more permutations there are that lead to victory.
''If you expand the map, you improve your chances,'' David Axelrod, Obama's lead strategist, told me recently. ''We didn't want to be in that same dreary position where the entire election hinges on three states, and you stay up all night waiting to see who won them.''
Let's assume, for the sake of argument, that Obama starts with the same relatively safe 19 states (plus the District of Columbia) Kerry won in 2004, along with Iowa, which Gore won and where polls have shown Obama comfortably ahead. He could actually prevail without winning either of the two big perennial battleground states, Ohio and Florida, simply by winning Indiana by itself or by winning both New Mexico and Virginia. It is McCain, in fact, who, having earlier this month abandoned a foray into blue-collar Michigan, seems now to be facing the more restrictive map, betting on the notion that he can hold just about every reliably Republican state while also winning in battlegrounds like Florida and Ohio.
At times during these final months of the campaign, though, Obama's optimism about the impermanence of blue and red shading has run up against the hard reality that after 40 years of culturally divisive politics, colors don't easily bleed. Before the conventions, for instance, most polls in North Dakota showed McCain in front by only a few points. When I spoke to Byron Dorgan, the Democratic senator from North Dakota, last month, he sounded ecstatic about Obama's multiple trips to the state and the more than $400,000 the campaign had already dumped into ads there. ''I think it's the first time you've turned on a television set and seen a persuasion ad for a Democratic candidate,'' Dorgan said.
Not a week later, however, a new round of post-convention polls showed McCain opening up a double-digit lead in North Dakota, and the Obama campaign abruptly pulled its ads. Dorgan called me back. ''I do think this is going to come back to be a fairly close race in North Dakota, but I understand we need the resources in some of the other battleground states at this point,'' he said, sounding resigned. ''I just called to say, 'Never mind.' ''
THE ONE STATE THAT NO ONE expects Obama to surrender before Election Day is Virginia, which may be the most critical of what the Obama campaign labels its ''nontraditional'' battleground states, both symbolically and mathematically. Like North Dakota, Virginia hasn't voted for a Democratic nominee since Johnson beat Goldwater. (It was the only state of the Old South to go with Gerald Ford over Carter in 1976.) But the onset of the postindustrial economy has probably wrought more change on Virginia in the last 15 years or so than the state saw in the half-century before that. The new technology corridor running along I-66 in Northern Virginia, just across the Potomac River from Washington, is one of the nation's most vibrant, and the self-sustaining exurbs growing up around it have rapidly transformed horizons of farmland into expensive town-house clusters and strip plazas. (The area now boasts such high-end stores as Tiffany, Gucci and Hermes.) New exurbs in the central part of the state aren't far behind, populated by commuters who work in corporate offices in Richmond, the capital of the old Confederacy. Of the 100 fastest-growing counties in the country, 6 of them are in Virginia.
The influx of new residents -- many of them highly educated, some of them recent immigrants -- has created in Northern Virginia one of the nation's more reliable and rapidly expanding Democratic voting blocs. In the more socially conservative south and southwest of the state, however, where manufacturing towns once thrived and coal miners once worked the Appalachian seam, the population has been falling steadily as high-school graduates strike out in search of stable work elsewhere. Not surprisingly, the number of statewide voters identifying themselves as Democrats has risen sharply over the last two years, far outpacing Republican growth. The last two governors have been Democrats, and come January -- when Mark Warner, the former governor, is widely expected to replace John Warner (no relation) in Washington -- both of its senators will likely be Democrats, too. John Kerry lost the state by nine points in 2004, but that was a relatively small margin when you consider that he never bothered to contest it. The McCain campaign is concerned enough about holding onto Virginia, where polls this month showed Obama pulling ahead, that it recently opened 10 new offices there.
Any Democrat who wants a general blueprint for how to win Virginia need only look to election maps from the last few statewide elections, in which the voters narrowly installed Tim Kaine as governor and Jim Webb in the Senate. First, you have to pile up huge margins among liberal voters in the state's Democratic strongholds, most notably the inner suburbs of Northern Virginia, where Kaine captured more than 60 percent of the vote in his race. (In the southeastern part of the state, black voters are a major Democratic constituency; overall, African-Americans could account for close to a fifth of the statewide vote.) Next, you want to pull off wins in the exploding exurban counties in Northern Virginia and at least come close in the exurbs outside Richmond. Finally, in order to make the overall math work, you have to hold down your losses in the rural areas to the south and southwest. That probably means capturing at least 40 percent in the economically devastated, gun-loving countryside that borders North Carolina and Tennessee to the south and Kentucky and West Virginia to the west.
Obama should have at least a good shot at achieving the first two of those objectives. His campaign says it's on pace to register as many as 200,000 new voters in reliably liberal parts of the state, and most analysts expect black voters to come to the polls in higher numbers for Obama than they have for other Democrats. For turnout, the campaign is relying on some 10,000 volunteers in the state, who are being trained to work in ''neighborhood teams'' that go door to door registering and lobbying voters. Obama's campaign seems to have patterned its turnout effort after George W. Bush's 2004 campaign, which employed a fervent volunteer network to churn out the suburban votes that put Ohio, among other states, into the Republican column.
In the mostly white exurbs, meanwhile, the economy alone should guarantee Obama a better hearing than Kerry could have expected. Like their counterparts in other states, young Virginians began moving into the exurbs over the last decade in search of something closer to their parents' version of the American dream. In the cities and suburbs where many of them grew up, housing prices were rising so rapidly that they couldn't afford to live in the towns with large lots and great schools. Farther out, however, in the brand-new exurbs that used to be farming towns, they found lower taxes, sprawling malls and affordable mini-mansions with driveways big enough for a couple of S.U.V.'s. For some Virginians, the extended commuting time to Richmond or Washington was worth the extra quality of life.
Perhaps no one is feeling as disoriented by the economic reversal of the past few years as these exurban voters, whose paradises are fast becoming prisons. They're watching as the value of their stocks and homes plummets, even as the cost of filling up the tank and heating the house soars. Traffic congestion along the state's main arteries has become a potent political issue, but fixing the problem requires more tax dollars. L. Douglas Wilder, the former Virginia governor and now mayor of Richmond, has seen the desperation rise. ''They're saying, 'I'm working as hard as I've ever worked in my life, but I can't save any money and I have to cut back, so what's gone wrong here?' '' Wilder told me recently. ''People who think they had it made -- doctors, lawyers, engineers -- everybody is feeling the pinch.''
FOR A NATIONAL DEMOCRAT, the hardest part of the electoral formula is probably the last piece -- holding one's own in the sea of small towns in the southern and Appalachian regions of the state that are far more similar to the rest of the Deep South than they are to Virginia's northern counties. Voters here haven't known economic expansion in decades, and they seem to have decided long ago that neither party was especially serious about stopping the decline, or even knew how. There is a strong sense in these communities, and not unreasonably, of suffering endless condescension -- a feeling that urbane America has already written off the rural lifestyle as a relic or, worse, as a joke. For that reason (and this is actually the point Obama says he was trying to make in San Francisco), cultural issues matter far more in the rural areas than they do in the exurbs, because voters see those issues as a test of whether politicians respect their values or mock them -- a construct that Republican strategists have become expert at exploiting.
Democrats running for governor or the Senate can spend a lot more time shaking hands in these parts, working to distance themselves from the national party's smug image, than can a presidential candidate, who also has to carry all of the extra baggage of the party's stands on social issues -- especially if he happens to be the first black nominee of either party. It probably isn't encouraging for Obama that in this year's Virginia primary, which he won easily, Hillary Clinton nonetheless dismantled him in the rural southwest. In tiny Dickenson County, along the western border with Kentucky, Clinton received 1,491 votes to Obama's 210. Next door in Wise County, it was Clinton 2,310; Obama, 459.
Obama has responded to this challenge principally by doing precisely what he told me he had to do: he has shown up. The first thing he did as his party's presumptive nominee in June, two days after closing out the final primaries in South Dakota and Montana, was to get on a plane and come to Bristol, Va., on the Tennessee border. He has returned twice more since then to the southern part of the state, and Joe Biden recently headlined a mineworkers' rally there. Local Democrats told me that Obama's campaign office in the old manufacturing town of Danville was so unusual for a candidate of either party that its opening was treated almost as a curiosity, as if a smoldering meteor had smashed into the town green.
No Virginia Democrat knows more about how to win over white rural voters than Mark Warner, whose ''Virginia story'' is now legend for national Democrats. Running for governor in 2001, when Republicans had a virtual monopoly in Virginia, Warner visited the southern areas of the state dozens of times, promising to revive local economies by bringing broadband lines through the region and luring high-tech companies. He not only cut his losses in those remote counties; he carried many of them outright. His proudest achievement as governor, or at least the one he talks about with the most enthusiasm, came just weeks before the end of his term (Virginia is the last state in the union to limit its governors to one term), when he induced two large high-tech companies to open facilities in the tiny southwestern town of Lebanon, bringing more than 700 jobs with them.
When I asked Warner, who has campaigned with Obama, what Obama needed to say to earn the trust of rural Virginians, he suggested Obama spend less time talking about economic despair and more time reminding voters of the hopeful things happening in southern Virginia.
''Celebrate Lebanon,'' he said. ''Celebrate that we've got a place for your community in the 21st century.'' ''Change'' was a good slogan, Warner told me, and people surely wanted it, but you also had to give them a sense that you understood the challenges specific to their communities. ''I'd like to hear him talk more about infrastructure, about broadband,'' Warner said. ''I think he's still got to make the case that your kids shouldn't have to leave your hometown to find a world-class job.
''People make a judgment about whether you really care or not. Is it just a drive-by, or are you really going to invest?''
IF YOU WANT TO GET TO LEBANON, a town of about 3,200, the easiest way is to fly into the Tri-City Airport on the Tennessee side of the Appalachians, then drive about 45 minutes northeast through some of the most gorgeous hill country in America. The back road that leads to Lebanon High School is lined with trailer-size houses on the edge of collapse, their front porches buckling in the sun. But then, as you approach the school, you see a few neat rows of brand new town houses, with prices in the high $200,000s -- the unmistakable landscape of the new economy. Lebanon is slowly becoming a symbol of hope for towns all over the region that dream of turning southwestern Virginia, with its abundant land and cheap labor, into the next high-tech hub. Local counties have raised up a half-dozen ''shell buildings'' -- essentially empty warehouses already connected to sewers and broadband lines -- to attract businesses looking for ready-made space. Inspired by the influx of tech jobs, officials in the area have started what they call the Return to Roots program, in which they aggressively seek out qualified graduates who have moved away for other jobs and try to lure them back home.
Barack Obama came to Lebanon High for a town-hall meeting with voters on the Tuesday after Labor Day, marking the first time any presidential candidate stepped foot in the area since Jimmy Carter came to nearby Castlewood in 1976. The campaign made tickets available to its local offices a few days before the event, and a lot of the roughly 2,400 attendees waited in line to get them. As a result, most of the voters in the school gymnasium seemed to be committed Obama backers already.
The program opened with the validators. This is a critical part of Obama's small-town strategy -- getting respected surrogates to stand up and say that Obama is a guy you can trust. The first person on stage was Ralph Stanley, the 81-year-old legendary bluegrass musician, who was born in nearby Stratton and makes his home in Dickenson County. He unfolded a piece of paper and read, in a shaky voice: ''I want to endorse Barack Obama as the next president of the United States. Thank you very much!'' The gymnasium exploded. (When the candidate met Stanley backstage, Obama told him that he had some of Stanley's banjo music on his iPod. Stanley nodded appreciatively, but a few minutes later he turned to a friend and asked, ''What's an iPod?'')
Stanley was followed by Cecil Roberts, the white-bearded president of the mineworkers' union, who preached as if he were at a revival, putting Obama's early years into a framework that southwestern Virginians could understand. ''Moses was a community organizer!'' Roberts thundered. ''And yes, Jesus was a community organizer!'' Then came Rick Boucher, the owlish congressman who represents Lebanon and its surrounding counties in Washington. ''Senator Obama is a friend of coal and the thousands of jobs it brings to Southwestern Virginia,'' Boucher assured the crowd. In fact, he repeated this line -- ''Barack Obama is a friend of coal'' -- no less than five times in 10 minutes.
Obama finally bounded onstage to an ovation that rocked the bleachers. He delivered a newly sharpened version of his basic rally speech, pacing the stage as he spoke, his pitch rising as he punctuated each point in a long list of indictments against the Bush years and John McCain. He stressed his own American story -- the mother on food stamps, the grandfather who fought in ''Patton's army,'' the father-in-law who worked a shift job with multiple sclerosis and never missed a day. The speech wasn't appreciably different from one he would have given at an arena packed with 20,000 people in Philadelphia or St. Louis.
It was only after the speech, prompted by questions from the audience, that Obama tried to reassure the crowd -- without ever referring to the ''bitter'' comment, of course -- that he was not some San Francisco liberal who pitied rural people for their religiosity and their pastimes. One man wanted to know what Obama thought of those who looked down on Sarah Palin because she was evangelical. No doubt thinking of the persistent rumors still flying around the Internet that say he is a closet Muslim, Obama reiterated, for about the seven millionth time this year, that he, too, is a practicing Christian. ''This is a nation of believers,'' he said, ''and I'm one of them.''
A teenage girl asked Obama what he might do specifically for rural America. I found it odd that Obama had to be prompted to address this question, but he warmed to it immediately, ticking off a list of public investments that his administration could bring to the region: broadband lines, school financing, the development of biodiesel fuels. He talked about creating more jobs for local students, ''so when they graduate from college those kids can stay here and live in Lebanon instead of having to go and work someplace else.''
Having finished that thought, Obama suddenly straightened up, as if something else important had just occurred to him. ''One thing I want to make clear while we're on this topic of rural America,'' he said, looking around the gym. ''There are a lot of folks who come up to me and say, 'You know, Barack, I like your economic plan, and I'm tired of George Bush, but you know, I got my N.R.A. mailing, and I'm worried you're gonna take my gun away.' '' Obama likes to do this -- to momentarily inhabit the mind of some composite character and act out his side of the conversation -- and he was met with knowing chuckles.
''I just want to be absolutely clear, O.K.? I just don't want any misunderstanding when you all go home and you talk with your buddies, and they say, 'Oh, he wants to take my gun away.' You heard it here, and I'm on television, so everybody knows. I believe in the Second Amendment. I believe in people's lawful right to bear arms. I will not take your shotgun away. I will not take your rifle away. I won't take your handgun away.
''So if you want to find an excuse not to vote for me, don't use that one!'' Obama said, eliciting laughter and cheers from the crowd. ''It just ain't true!''
OBAMA ACHIEVED his main objective in Lebanon: he showed up where no modern Democratic nominee had before, taking on social issues and planting himself squarely in the mainstream, and he hit on the list of issues that Warner and others urged him to mention. When I caught up with Congressman Boucher not long after the event, he told me it had been ''terribly important.'' Boucher had recently commissioned a poll in his district, which he gave to the Obama campaign, and while he wouldn't tell me any of the specifics, he did volunteer that McCain was ''significantly ahead.'' Still, the poll showed an unusually high number of undecided voters -- perhaps not surprising given that in the Republican primary McCain lost badly to Mike Huckabee in the southwestern counties. ''People are not enthusiastic about McCain,'' he told me. ''They want to get to know Barack Obama better. They're waiting to be persuaded.
''The grapevine is the single most powerful form of communication in my district,'' Boucher continued. ''All those people in that gymnasium, I'll bet every one of them went out and told 10 people, 'Hey, he was terrific.' ''
Still, it occurred to me that during his appearance in Lebanon, Obama did little more than briefly nod to a series of local concerns, as if he had been carrying around a list that needed to be checked off before he got back on his plane and headed east to Norfolk. ''Keeping jobs at home'' was a great applause line, but Obama didn't betray any awareness of the novel public programs that might make that goal possible, like the shell buildings or the Return to Roots campaign. Far from celebrating Lebanon, as Warner suggested, Obama made only passing reference to the new jobs that were revitalizing the town, a success story that would seem to have justified his coming there in the first place. Obama mostly made the same general appeal he was making in more diverse and liberal parts of the country, with a few perfunctory detours along the way.
It is often said in politics that a candidate's strength is also his weakness. Obama's greatest asset as a candidate, the trait that has enabled him to overcome both a thin resume and the resistance of his own party's establishment, is his placidity. Even more than through his ability to give a rousing speech (plenty of other candidates, from Ted Kennedy to Howard Dean, could do that), Obama has differentiated himself from recent Democrats by conveying a sense of inner security that is highly unusual in a business of people who have chosen to spend every day asking people to love them. He does not seem like a candidate who's going to switch to earth tones in his middle age or who's going to start dressing up in camouflage to rediscover his inner Rambo. Obama is content to meet the world on his terms, and something about that inspires confidence.
And yet that same lack of pathetic neediness may in fact be a detriment when it comes to persuading voters who, culturally or ideologically, just aren't predisposed to like him. I once heard a friend of Obama's compare him with Bill Clinton this way: if Clinton sees you walking down the other side of the street, he immediately crosses over to shake your hand; if Obama sees you coming, he nods and waits for you to cross. That image returned to me as I watched Obama campaign in Lebanon. Clinton wouldn't have wanted to leave that gym until every last voter had been converted, even if that meant he had to memorize the scheduled sewer installation for every home in Russell County. Mark Warner, a similarly tenacious glad-hander, went to rural Virginia again and again because, deep down, he needed to change people's perceptions of who he was. Obama doesn't connect to the world that way, which is probably why his campaign has always preferred big rallies to hand-to-hand venues. Obama gives the impression that he's going to show up and make his case, and if you don't fall in love with him, well, he'll just have to pick up the pieces and go on.
In some other election year, that probably wouldn't have been enough to sway the subset of undecided voters who came to see Obama at Lebanon High. But this isn't any other election year. Bush's approval ratings are the lowest on record, the Republican nominee is an erstwhile foe of the N.R.A. and taxpayers are doling out loans to Wall Street while their own credit suddenly dries up. As this campaign's symbol of change (the word is all but tattooed on his forehead), Obama has become, in a sense, the default candidate -- the guy you choose if he can clear even a modest threshold of acceptability. Voters in places like Lebanon were not, as Obama joked, looking for excuses not to vote for him; they were looking for reasons they should. The uncommitted voters in the gymnasium might not have run back home to tell their friends how ''terrific'' Obama had been, but they may well have said that Obama didn't seem alien or condescending -- that he wasn't the contemptuous, tax-loving liberal they had heard so much about. And maybe, this time, that would be enough.
A WEEK AFTER OBAMA VISITED Lebanon and Norfolk, I went to see Jim Webb in his Capitol Hill office. Obama's campaign considers Webb, a war hero and former Republican, to be one of its most critical validators all over Virginia, specifically because he appeals to white men who are skeptical of Democrats in general. In fact, Webb's Scots-Irish family hails from coal country. Not long after he entered the Senate, he became embroiled in a mini-controversy when an aide accidentally carried one of Webb's favorite guns onto the Capitol grounds.
I was surprised, then, when Webb told me that while he was enthusiastic about Obama and would campaign for him, he did not intend to vouch for him on social issues. ''I believe that Barack Obama has the temperament and the intellect and the ideas to be president,'' Webb said. ''But I don't talk about his positions, and I don't defend his positions.'' When I commented that Webb wasn't where Obama was on gun rights (Obama favors what he calls some ''common sense'' restrictions), Webb cut me off. ''No, he's not where I am on guns,'' he said pointedly. It occurred to me that this was probably the kind of validation Obama could do without. (Webb appears to have softened his stance. A few weeks later, he decided to tape an ad promising voters in southwestern Virginia that Obama would not, in fact, confiscate their guns.)
Webb and I discussed the conventional wisdom taking hold -- in discussions not only about Virginia but about Pennsylvania and Ohio and Michigan as well -- that white men weren't breaking Obama's way mostly because he's black. Webb disagreed. When it came to white working-class and rural voters, Webb said, what mattered was whether Obama seemed to share the same basic small-town values. ''Does he understand me?'' Webb said. ''Can I trust him?''
At one point, when we were talking about the southwestern part of the state, Webb suggested, half seriously, that I should talk to his cousin Jimmy, who writes a column for The Lebanon News. (The number of Webb's cousins is something of a joke in Virginia; he's basically related in some way to the entire western part of the state.) So when I got back to my office, I tracked down cousin Jimmy, who, it turns out, is 78 years old and knows Virginia politics as well as he knows the old coins he sells to collectors. Jimmy Webb told me he was a strong Obama supporter, but he had a slightly different take on things than his famous cousin.
''When you get past Roanoke and out this way,'' he told me, ''in southwestern Virginia and eastern Tennessee, blacks are just not that popular. That's one of Obama's problems. I've had Democrats tell me that they're not even going to the polls.'' I heard much the same thing from Steve Cochran, the Democratic committee chairman in Montgomery County. (Believe it or not, Cochran, too, is somehow a distant cousin of Webb's.) ''I think if the people of southwestern Virginia had the opportunity to meet Barack Obama and see how intelligent he is and how genuine he is and how caring he is, there would be no question,'' Cochran said. ''But there is still this little bit of skepticism in Appalachian Virginia, as there is in a lot of other parts of the country, that this guy is still just a little bit not like me. I see people having a little trouble getting around that color barrier.''
How race affects Obama's effort to broaden the electoral map is the most persistent question surrounding his campaign -- and perhaps the least answerable. A bracing poll released last month by The Associated Press and Yahoo, in conjunction with Stanford University, concluded that Obama might be losing as many as six percentage points nationally because he's black. This was based on the finding that 40 percent of white Americans admitted to some negative views toward blacks. Such polls are frequently cited as proof that Obama would be walking away with the election were he more than half white.
And yet from all available data Obama isn't actually doing any worse with white men than the last two Democratic nominees, both of whom also ran at a time when the national climate offered considerable advantages -- Gore because the country had enjoyed a long period of prosperity, Kerry because of the failing war in Iraq. According to exit polls, Kerry lost the overall white vote by 17 points in 2004. Recent Gallup tracking polls, while somewhat erratic from week to week, have shown Obama running above that level; polling in early October had him down by only eight points among white voters. ''Obama's doing better than Gore or Kerry,'' says Dee Davis, who founded the Center for Rural Strategies in Whitesburg, Ky. ''And I think both of those guys were white the last time I looked at the paper.'' According to exit polls, Kerry received only 27 percent of the white-male vote in Virginia in 2004, a figure Obama is poised to surpass, according to a pollster from another campaign who is working in the state.
Perhaps the problem with this entire discussion about race is that it begins with the wrong question. Most polls focus on determining the prevalence of racial bias among white voters and whether it will affect their choices on Election Day. This may be the best way we have to measure the impact of race, but it is hardly revelatory; no one should be surprised to learn that racial stereotypes exist, particularly among lower-income and less-educated white men, or that such stereotypes affect the way voters see Obama. The more important question is not whether race is a factor in people's votes but whether it is a determinative factor -- that is, whether Obama's being black is the disqualifying fact for white voters that it might have been 20 years ago or whether it has now been reduced to one of those surmountable obstacles that any candidate has to overcome.
When Al Smith, New York's Democratic governor, ran for president in 1928, his Catholicism was a deal breaker. When John F. Kennedy ran in 1960, the prejudice remained, but it had lost its defining intensity. Kennedy felt sufficiently disadvantaged by his religion to address it in a major speech, just as Obama did on race during the primaries, but in the end, some sizable segment of Protestant voters who had concerns about pulling the lever for a Catholic did so anyway. In other words, it may be possible for racial prejudice to exist, as all the polls suggest it does, but for it to be only one significant influence among many, including voters' views on the economy and on McCain as an alternative.
There is another parallel in the Kennedy example that may prove relevant if Obama's strategists have their way. While Kennedy undoubtedly lost the votes of some Protestants who feared papal influence over the White House, their numbers were more than canceled out by the Catholic voters who came to the polls at a level never before seen. Obama's strategists accept that there will be some number of voters -- particularly white men -- who will reject Obama solely because he is black. But they are betting, first, that most of these voters wouldn't have voted for a Democrat in any event and, second, that the groundswell of black support for Obama will produce enough new African-American votes in a lot of states to offset them.
In 2004, 60 percent of voting-age black Americans went to the polls (compared with 67 percent of white voters), and about 88 percent of them voted for Kerry. Those are pretty impressive numbers, historically. And yet, with Obama on the ticket, it is not unrealistic to think that black turnout could increase by as many as five points and that Obama could increase the Democratic share of that vote to well over 90 percent. All of which means that if Obama can perform at least as well as Kerry among white men in some of the reliably red states he's trying to turn blue, most notably Virginia and North Carolina, race as an overall factor in the election could end up winning Obama more votes than it takes away.
WHEN I SAT WITH OBAMA on his plane, just three days after his first debate with McCain and not quite a week since the nation's credit system went into meltdown, the White House must have felt, finally, within his reach. National tracking polls showed him holding a consistent lead of four to six points for the first time in the campaign. In a string of familiar battleground states where Obama had been struggling to capitalize on anti-Bush sentiment and economic angst, a new round of polls showed him breaking out at last. He had finally put some distance between himself and McCain in Pennsylvania and Michigan, and he was on the verge of driving the Republicans from the latter state altogether. In Ohio and Florida, states that Bush carried twice, Obama appeared to have broken a stalemate and moved solidly into the lead. Such readings were merely snapshots, of course, subject to change at any moment, but even so, both campaigns seemed to sense that McCain's window for taking command of the campaign was beginning to close.
In Virginia, according to both private and public polling, the shift was especially pronounced. Several polls would soon show Obama pulling ahead of McCain by a significant margin, and two would have his lead in the state soaring into double digits. More staggering was the data concerning white voters and, specifically, men. According to a random telephone poll by SurveyUSA (though often derided by rival pollsters, the outfit compiled a surprisingly strong track record in the primaries), McCain was leading among men in Virginia by 10 points just after the conventions; by the beginning of October, Obama was leading by 11. Among white voters in the state overall, McCain's 22-point September lead had shrunk to single digits. In the rural Shenandoah Valley region, running along the state's western border and down into coal country, McCain had led by 24 points in September. Now he and Obama were tied.
And yet it seemed fair to question whether anything about this sudden movement actually validated Obama's central argument about American politics -- this notion that the cultural fault line in the electorate can somehow be bridged by a generational change in leadership -- or whether it spoke to some more immediate, more desperate impulse in a shaken electorate. The campaign had become pretty much a referendum on the current economic carnage and eight years of mostly bad news turning to worse, and for the moment, at least, the crisis on Wall Street appeared to have accomplished what Obama's strategists had been unable to do for months leading up to it: change the focus from Obama's readiness and supposed elitism to George W. Bush's myriad failures. In 2004, voters in the newly influential exurbs chose cultural identity over their concerns about war and the economy, and this choice cost John Kerry Ohio and the presidency; this year, it seemed increasingly likely that those voters might tip the other way -- and take the election with them.
OBAMA WOULD gladly take that outcome, of course. But it would not be the transformational victory he envisioned when he set out to run, the one in which white men in exurbs and rural counties wouldn't just grudgingly vote for a Democrat out of frustration with the alternative but actually come around to the idea that a Democrat can share their values. ''If I'm able to change this,'' he told me on his plane, meaning the cultural breach in our politics, ''then it's probably going to be most powerful after I'm elected, when you're no longer in the context of day-to-day battle, and I can prove it by what I do.''
I asked Obama if it was frustrating to have seen, throughout the campaign, so many polls that showed him trailing badly among white men with lower incomes or less education.
''It's not frustrating,'' Obama said, shaking his head. I found this believable; Obama seems almost impervious to frustration. ''There are a couple of things at work here. No. 1, let's face it -- I'm not a familiar type.'' He laughed. ''Which means it would be easier for me to deliver this message if I was from one of these places, right? I've got to deliver that message as a black guy from Hawaii named Barack Obama. So, admittedly, it's just unfamiliar.
''Which, by the way, is a different argument than race,'' Obama continued, pausing to make sure I understood. ''I'm not making an argument that the resistance is simply racial. It's more just that I'm different in all kinds of ways. I'm different even for black people. I went through similar stuff when I ran against Bobby Rush on the all-black South Side of Chicago.'' In that race, a Democratic primary for Congress in 2000, Rush, the black incumbent, handed Obama his first and only political defeat. ''It's like: 'Who is this guy? Where'd he come from?' So that's part of it.
''The second part of it is that I'm trying to do this in an environment where the media narrative is already set up in a certain way. So it's hard to not be dropped into a box.''
He reminded me that back in March, for instance, he accepted a spontaneous invitation from a voter in Altoona, Pa., to bowl a few frames, and it turned out Obama was basically a god-awful bowler. Some commentators gleefully used this deficiency to portray him as out of touch with the common man, in a John Kerry-windsurfing sort of way. (Joe Scarborough, on MSNBC, used the word ''prissy.'') To Obama, this brought home the bleak reality that, as a Democratic nominee, he was going to be typecast, fairly or not.
''I am convinced that if there were no Fox News, I might be two or three points higher in the polls,'' Obama told me. ''If I were watching Fox News, I wouldn't vote for me, right? Because the way I'm portrayed 24/7 is as a freak! I am the latte-sipping, New York Times-reading, Volvo-driving, no-gun-owning, effete, politically correct, arrogant liberal. Who wants somebody like that?
''I guess the point I'm making,'' he went on, ''is that there is an entire industry now, an entire apparatus, designed to perpetuate this cultural schism, and it's powerful. People want to know that you're fighting for them, that you get them. And I actually think I do. But you know, if people are just seeing me in sound bites, they're not going to discover that. That's why I say that some of that may have to happen after the election, when they get to know you.''
Hearing him say this a second time, it seemed to me a remarkable admission -- if not a retreat from his driving vision, then at least a deferral. Normally, in political campaigns, you hope people get to know you and then decide to vote for you; Obama now believed that perhaps only the inverse was possible. Once, he might have thought that if he could only win a bunch of red states and pile up 350 electoral votes, he could obliterate the red-blue paralysis of the last decade and wield his mandate like a machete against the culture warriors in Washington. Now, it seemed, he understood that even a Reaganesque triumph wouldn't suddenly erase the effect of 40 years of exploiting peoples' darkest fears or ignoring their legitimate anxieties, the twisted and bipartisan legacy of a lost political generation. If he won, Obama would likely start out as a 50-plus-1 president, no matter what the map had in store. And then the campaign would begin again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lunchtime stop at O'Keefe's Tavern in Clearwater, Fla.,last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS) (MM38-39)
After midnight at an automotive plant in Indianapolis in May as a late shift ends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM42-43)
 Boarding his campaign plane on the way to Green Bay, Wis., last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MEN (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (59%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011



811 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Obama Attacks McCain on Health Care and Medicare, in Some Ways Inaccurately

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
In a coordinated air and ground attack, Senator Barack Obama is charging that his Republican rival for the presidency, Senator John McCain, would make $882 billion in ''drastic cuts to Medicare'' to pay for his health care proposal.
 That assertion, which could resonate among elderly voters in swing states like Florida, is being angrily disputed by the McCain campaign. Mr. McCain's top domestic policy adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, said Friday that the Democrat's latest assault on the McCain health plan capped the ''worst and most sustained distortion of policy in this entire campaign.'' 
 In fact, the Obama campaign's new television advertisement, which Mr. Obama reinforced on the stump in Virginia on Friday and again in Missouri on Saturday, may mischaracterize Mr. McCain's plan by making assumptions that are stitched together from news reporting and rough back-of-the-envelope calculations by a partisan policy group.
 The advertisement asserts that the McCain plan would require ''cuts in benefits, eligibility or both.'' In his speech Friday, Mr. Obama added that ''it would mean a cut of more than 20 percent in Medicare benefits next year.'' 
 But Mr. McCain has not proposed benefit cuts, though he may find it necessary to make his plan pay for itself. Rather, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said Friday that Mr. McCain would fill any budget hole in the plan through a variety of changes that would leave seniors with ''exactly the same benefits.'' And he pointed out that Mr. Obama supports many of the same changes.
 Among the measures he listed were accelerating the computerization of health records, eliminating fraudulent Medicare claims, requiring high-income beneficiaries to pay more for pharmaceuticals, speeding the use of generic drugs and eliminating government subsidies for private Medicare Advantage plans. He also spoke, as Mr. Obama often does, of saving money through more effective treatment of chronic diseases and reconfiguring the Medicare payment system to emphasize prevention. 
 Economists agree that many of those initiatives should save money over the long term, but estimates of how much and how fast are varied and speculative. Nonetheless, both candidates rely on such guesswork. 
 The centerpiece of Mr. McCain's plan, which is intended to make the insurance markets more equitable and competitive, is the elimination of the income tax exclusion of employer-sponsored health benefits. That tax advantage, often worth thousands of dollars a year, is not available to those who buy insurance individually. In exchange, Mr. McCain would offer all consumers tax credits of $2,500 per individual or $5,000 per family to buy coverage.
 Mr. McCain's aides assert that his plan would not add to net government spending. But in July, the Tax Policy Center, a group of analysts from the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution, estimated that the change in tax treatment would cost the government $1.3 trillion over 10 years. 
 The analysts did not evaluate whether the health care savings proposed by Mr. McCain would be sufficient to fill the gap.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin has declined to accept or reject the Tax Policy Center estimate. But this month, The Wall Street Journal reported that he said -- without providing much detail -- that Mr. McCain had always planned to help pay for the tax credits with reductions to Medicare and Medicaid. The next day, the Center for American Progress Action Fund, which is led by John D. Podesta, who was a chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, asserted that a proportional cut would mean eliminating $882 billion from Medicare and $419 billion from Medicaid. The Obama advertisement cites both the Journal article and the center's study.
 Jason Furman, Mr. Obama's economic policy director, said Saturday that the center's estimate was ''extremely conservative'' given Mr. McCain's pledge to balance the budget. Mr. Furman said there would be no way to fill a $1.3 trillion hole without significant cuts to benefits. He also said the McCain plan would save less than the Obama plan from advances in computerization because it would invest less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MEDICARE (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MEDICARE FRAUD (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); NEWS REPORTING (68%); GENERIC DRUGS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); INSURANCE (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



812 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: He Just Can't Quit W

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
OLD Mr. Straight Talk has become so shaky a speaker that when he does talk straight, it's startling. On Wednesday night, John McCain mustered exactly one such moment of clarity: ''Senator Obama, I am not President Bush. If you wanted to run against President Bush, you should have run four years ago.''
 Thanks largely to this line, McCain's remaining base in the political press graded his last debate performance his best. The public, not so much. As with the previous debates, everypollfound Barack Obama the winner, this time by as much as two-to-one ratios. Obama even swept the focus group convened by the G.O.P. pollster Frank Luntz in the once-impregnable McCain bunker of Fox News.
 Perhaps voters were unimpressed by McCain's big moment because they can figure out the obvious rejoinder: Why didn't McCain run against President Bush four years ago -- as he had four years before that? Instead McCain campaigned for Bush's re-election, cheered for Bush policies he once opposed and helped lower himself and America into the pit where we find ourselves today. 
 The day after the debate, McCain put up a new ad trying yet again to shake the president. ''The last eight years haven't worked very well, have they?'' he asks, as if he were an innocent bystander the entire time. But no matter what McCain says or does, he still can't quit the guy. Heading from a Midtown hotel to a fund-raiser the night before facing Obama onstage on Long Island last week, the McCain motorcade lined up right next to the New York red-carpet premiere of Oliver Stone's ''W.'' A black cat would have been a better omen.
 The election isn't over, but there remain only three discernible, if highly unlikely, paths to a McCain victory. A theoretically mammoth wave of racism, incessantly anticipated by the press, could materialize in voting booths on Nov. 4. Or newly registered young and black voters could fail to show up. Or McCain could at long last make good on his most persistent promise: follow Osama bin Laden to the gates of hell and, once there, strangle him with his own bare hands on ''Hannity & Colmes.'' 
 Even Republicans are rapidly bailing on a McCain resuscitation. It's a metaphor for the party's collapse that on the day of the final debate both Nancy Reagan and Dick Cheney checked into hospitals. Conservatives have already moved past denial to anger on the Kubler-Ross scale of grief. They are not waiting for votes to be counted before carrying out their first round of Stalinist purges. William F. Buckley's son Christopher was banished from National Review for endorsing Obama. Next thing you know, there will be a fatwa on that McCain-bashing lefty, George Will. 
 As the G.O.P.'s long night of the long knives begins, myths are already setting in among the right's storm troops and the punditocracy alike as to what went wrong. And chief among them are the twin curses of Bush and the ''headwinds'' of the economy. No Republican can win if the party's incumbent president is less popular than dirt, we keep being told, or if a looming Great Depression 2 is Issue No. 1.
 This is an excuse, not an explanation. It absolves McCain of much of the blame and denies Obama much of the credit for their campaigns. It arouses pity for McCain when he deserves none. It rewrites history. 
 Bush's impact on the next Republican presidential candidate did not have to be so devastating. McCain isn't, as he and his defenders keep protesting, a passive martyr to a catastrophic administration. He could have made separating himself from Bush the brave, central and even conservative focus of his campaign. Far from doing that, he embraced the Bush ethos -- if not the incredible shrinking man himself -- more tightly than ever. The candidate who believes in ''country first'' decided to put himself first and sell out his principles. That ignoble decision is what accounts for both the McCain campaign's failures and its sleaze. It's a decision McCain made on his own and for which he has yet to assume responsibility. 
 Though it seems a distant memory now, McCain was a maverick once. He did defy Bush on serious matters including torture, climate change and the over-the-top tax cuts that bankrupted a government at war and led to the largest income inequality in America since the 1930s. But it isn't just his flip-flopping on some of these and other issues that turned him into a Bush acolyte. The full measure of McCain's betrayal of his own integrity cannot even be found in that Senate voting record -- 90 percent in lockstep with the president -- that Obama keeps throwing in his face. 
 The Bushian ethos that McCain embraced, as codified by Karl Rove, is larger than any particular vote or policy. Indeed, by definition that ethos is opposed to the entire idea of policy. The whole point of the Bush-Rove way of doing business is that principles, coherent governance and even ideology must always be sacrificed for political expediency, no matter the cost to the public good. 
 Like McCain now, Bush campaigned in 2000 as a practical problem-solver who could ''work across the partisan divide,'' as he put it in his first debate with Al Gore. He had no strong views on any domestic or foreign issue, except taxes and education. Only after he entered the White House did we learn his sole passion: getting and keeping power. That imperative, not the country, would always come first.
 One journalist who detected this modus operandi early was Ron Suskind, who, writing for Esquire in January 2003, induced John DiIulio, the disillusioned chief of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, to tell all. ''There is no precedent in any modern White House for what is going on in this one: a complete lack of a policy apparatus,'' DiIulio said. ''What you've got is everything -- and I mean everything -- being run by the political arm. It's the reign of the Mayberry Machiavellis.''
 If politics strongarm everything, you end up with the rampant cronyism, nonexistent long-term planning and abrupt, partisan policy improvisations that fed the calamities of Iraq, Katrina and the economic meltdown. Incredibly, McCain has nakedly endorsed the Bush-Rove brand of governance in his own campaign by assembling his personal set of lobbyist cronies and Roveoperatives to run it. They have not only entangled him in a welter ofconflicts of interest, but they've furthered cynical political stunts like the elevation of Sarah Palin. At least Bush and Rove didn't try to put an unqualified hack like, say, Alberto Gonzales half a heartbeat away from the presidency. 
 As if the Palin pick weren't damning enough, McCain and his team responded to the financial panic by offering their own panicky simulation of the Bush style of crisis management in real time. Fire the S.E.C. chairman and replace him with Andrew Cuomo! Convene a 9/11 commission to save Wall Street! Don't bail out A.I.G.! Do bail out A.I.G.! Reacting to polls and the short-term dictates of 24-hour news cycles, McCain offered asmanyeconomic-policyrebootsin amonth as Bush offered ''Plans for Victory'' during the first three years of the Iraq war. 
 Now McCain is trying to distract us from his humiliating managerial ineptitude by cranking up the politics of fear -- another trademark Bush-Rove strategy. But the McCain camp's quixotic effort to turn an ''old washed-up terrorist'' into a wedge issue as divisive as same-sex marriage is too little, too late and too tone-deaf at a time when Americans are suffering too much to indulge in 1960s culture wars. Voters want policies that might actually work rather than another pandering, cynical leader who operates mainly on the basis of his ''gut'' and political self-interest. 
 The former Bush speechwriter David Frum has facetiously written that McCain could be rescued by ''a 5,000-point rise in the Dow and a 20 percent jump in home prices.'' But the economy, stupid, can't be blamed for McCain's own failures, any more than Bush can be. Even before the housing bubble burst and Wall Street tumbled, voters could see that the seething, impulsive nominee isn't temperamentally fit to be president. 
 That's where the debates have come in. There may have been none of those knockout blows the press craves, but the accretional effect has been to teach the public that McCain isn't steady enough to run the country even if the economy were sound, and that Obama just might be.
 In Debate No. 1, you could put the volume on mute and see what has proved to be the lasting impressions of both candidates start to firm up. In Debate No. 2, McCain set the concrete: he re-enacted the troubling psychological cartography of his campaign ''suspension'' by wandering around the stage like a half-dotty uncle vainly trying to flee his caregiver. After the sneering and eye-rolling of McCain's ''best'' debate on Wednesday, CNN's poll found the ever-serene Obama swamping him on ''likeability,'' 70 to 22 percent. 
 At least McCain had half a point on Wednesday night when he said, ''I am not President Bush.'' What he has offered his country this year is an older, crankier, more unsteady version of Bush. Tragically, he can no sooner escape our despised president than he can escape himself. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); RACE & RACISM (62%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); DICK CHENEY (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



813 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Leaders Move Toward Conferences on Economic Crisis

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush and European leaders, who have been tussling over whether to revamp the regulatory framework for global finance, agreed Saturday night to take steps toward a series of international meetings to address the economic crisis, the White House said.
 After a private dinner at Camp David, Mr. Bush, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and the president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, issued a joint statement saying they agreed to ''reach out to other world leaders'' to propose an international summit meeting to be held soon after the United States presidential election, with the possibility of more gatherings after that. 
 The statement was delicately worded. In it, the leaders said the goal of the first meeting would be to ''review progress being made to address the current crisis and to seek agreement on principles of reform needed to avoid a repetition and assure global prosperity in the future.'' 
 With the American economy in its deepest crisis since the Great Depression, Mr. Bush has been under intense pressure from European leaders to take steps to tighten oversight and better coordinate financial market regulation around the world. 
 But any discussion of international oversight of financial markets is delicate and, in the White House's view, problematic. American officials do not want other nations to control this country's banking system.
 Just hours before the joint statement, Mr. Bush, in an appearance with Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Barroso at Camp David, warned that any effort to overhaul the international financial system must ''preserve the foundations of democratic capitalism -- a commitment to free markets, free enterprise and free trade.''
 The Europeans had been pressing for a meeting of the Group of 8 industrialized nations, but Mr. Bush went one step further, calling for a broader global conference that would include ''developed and developing nations'' -- among them China and India, a senior White House official said. 
 The White House will seek the president-elect's input, said the official, who was not authorized to discuss the plans publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Mr. Bush, with Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Barroso at his side, said, ''Given that the world has never been more interconnected, it is essential that we work together because we're in this crisis together.'' He added, ''For this meeting to be a success, we must welcome good ideas from around the world.'' 
 Mr. Barroso said, ''Together, we should show the way towards an international response,'' adding, ''We need a new global financial order.''
 Mr. Sarkozy said, ''This may be a great opportunity if we do not fall back into the hateful practices of the past, practices that have led us exactly where we are right now.'' He added, ''We cannot continue along the same lines, because the same problems will trigger the same disasters.''
 Mr. Bush's offer to hold a summit meeting in the United States appeared to be an effort by the administration to wrest control of the proceedings from Mr. Sarkozy. Earlier Saturday, Mr. Sarkozy secured the agreement of the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, to host a meeting in December. But the senior White House official said that offer was now moot.
 ''We appreciate the suggestion by the secretary general, but the United States has committed to hosting the summit,'' the official said. ''There's lots of force out there coming from the Europeans for ideas on what ought to be on the agenda, but there are lots of very important countries in the world that have a stake in this, and they have their views, and we have our own views.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



814 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2697 words

HEADLINE: Building Flawed American Dreams

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and GRETCHEN MORGENSON; David Streitfeld reported from San Antonio, and Gretchen Morgenson from New York.. 
Gretchen Morgenson reported from New York.

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- A grandson of Mexican immigrants and a former mayor of this town, Henry G. Cisneros has spent years trying to make the dream of homeownership come true for low-income families.
As the Clinton administration's top housing official in the mid-1990s, Mr. Cisneros loosened mortgage restrictions so first-time buyers could qualify for loans they could never get before.
Then, capitalizing on a housing expansion he helped unleash, he joined the boards of a major builder, KB Home, and the largest mortgage lender in the nation, Countrywide Financial -- two companies that rode the housing boom, drawing criticism along the way for abusive business practices.
And Mr. Cisneros became a developer himself. The Lago Vista development here in his hometown once stood as a testament to his life's work. 
Joining with KB, he built 428 homes for low-income buyers in what was a neglected, industrial neighborhood. He often made the trip from downtown to ask residents if they were happy.
''People bought here because of Cisneros,'' says Celia Morales, a Lago Vista resident. ''There was a feeling of, 'He's got our back.' ''
But Mr. Cisneros rarely comes around anymore. Lago Vista, like many communities born in the housing boom, is now under stress. Scores of homes have been foreclosed, including one in five over the last six years on the community's longest street, Sunbend Falls, according to property records.
While Mr. Cisneros says he remains proud of his work, he has misgivings over what his passion has wrought. He insists that the worst problems developed only after ''bad actors'' hijacked his good intentions but acknowledges that ''people came to homeownership who should not have been homeowners.''
They were lured by ''unscrupulous participants -- bankers, brokers, secondary market people,'' he says. ''The country is paying for that, and families are hurt because we as a society did not draw a line.''
The causes of the housing implosion are many: lax regulation, financial innovation gone awry, excessive debt, raw greed. The players are also varied: bankers, borrowers, developers, politicians and bureaucrats.
Mr. Cisneros, 61, had a foot in a number of those worlds. Despite his qualms, he encouraged the unprepared to buy homes -- part of a broad national trend with dire economic consequences.
He reflects often on his role in the debacle, he says, which has changed homeownership from something that secured a place in the middle class to something that is ejecting people from it. ''I've been waiting for someone to put all the blame at my doorstep,'' he says lightly, but with a bit of worry, too.
The Paydays During the Boom
After a sex scandal destroyed his promising political career and he left Washington, he eventually reinvented himself as a well-regarded advocate and builder of urban, working-class homes. He has financed the construction of more than 7,000 houses.
For the three years he was a director at KB Home, Mr. Cisneros received at least $70,000 in pay and more than $100,000 worth of stock. He also received $1.14 million in directors' fees and stock grants during the six years he was a director at Countrywide. He made more than $5 million from Countrywide stock options, money he says he plowed into his company.
He says his development work provides an annual income of ''several hundred thousand'' dollars. All told, his paydays are modest relative to the windfalls some executives netted in the boom. Indeed, Mr. Cisneros says his mistake was not the greed that afflicted many of his counterparts in banking and housing; it was unwavering belief.
It was, he argues, impossible to know in the beginning that the federal push to increase homeownership would end so badly. Once the housing boom got going, he suggests, laws and regulations barely had a chance.
''You think you have a finely tuned instrument that you can use to say: 'Stop! We're at 69 percent homeownership. We should not go further. There are people who should remain renters,' '' he says. ''But you really are just given a sledgehammer and an ax. They are blunt tools.''
From people dizzily drawing home equity loans out of increasingly valuable houses to banks racking up huge fees, few wanted the party to end.
''I'm not sure you can regulate when we're talking about an entire nation of 300 million people and this behavior becomes viral,'' Mr. Cisneros says.
Homeownership has deep roots in the American soul. But until recently getting a mortgage was a challenge for low-income families. Many of these families were minorities, which naturally made the subject of special interest to Mr. Cisneros, who, in 1993, became the first Hispanic head of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
He had President Clinton's ear, an easy charisma and a determination to increase a homeownership rate that had been stagnant for nearly three decades.
Thus was born the National Homeownership Strategy, which promoted ownership as patriotic and an easy win for all. ''We were trying to be creative,'' Mr. Cisneros recalls.
Under Mr. Cisneros, there were small and big changes at HUD, an agency that greased the mortgage wheel for first-time buyers by insuring billions of dollars in loans. Families no longer had to prove they had five years of stable income; three years sufficed.
And in another change championed by the mortgage industry, lenders were allowed to hire their own appraisers rather than rely on a government-selected panel. This saved borrowers money but opened the door for inflated appraisals. (A later HUD inquiry uncovered appraisal fraud that imperiled the federal mortgage insurance fund.)
''Henry did everything he could for home builders while he was at HUD,'' says Janet Ahmad, president of Homeowners for Better Building, an advocacy group in San Antonio, who has known Mr. Cisneros since he was a city councilor. ''That laid the groundwork for where we are now.''
Mr. Cisneros, who says he has no recollection that appraisal rules were relaxed when he ran HUD, disputes that notion. ''I look back at HUD and feel my hands were clean,'' he says.
Lenders applauded two more changes HUD made on Mr. Cisneros's watch: they no longer had to interview most government-insured borrowers face to face or maintain physical branch offices. The industry changed, too. Lenders sprang up to serve those whose poor credit history made them ineligible for lower-interest ''prime'' loans. Countrywide, which Angelo R. Mozilo co-founded in 1969, set up a subprime unit in 1996.
Mr. Cisneros met Mr. Mozilo while he was HUD secretary, when Countrywide signed a government pledge to use ''proactive creative efforts'' to extend homeownership to minorities and low-income Americans.
He met Bruce E. Karatz, the chief executive of KB Home, when both were helping Los Angeles rebuild after the Northridge earthquake in 1994.
There were real gains during the Clinton years, as homeownership rose to 67.4 percent in 2000 from 64 percent in 1994. Hispanics and African-Americans were the biggest beneficiaries. But as the boom later gathered steam, and as the Bush administration continued the Clinton administration's push to amplify homeownership, some of those gains turned out to be built on sand.
Mr. Cisneros left government in 1997 after revelations that he had lied to federal investigators about payments to a former mistress. In the following years, HUD continued to draw attention in the news media and among consumer advocates for an overly lenient posture toward the housing industry.
In 2000, Mr. Cisneros returned to San Antonio, where he formed American CityVista, a developer, in partnership with KB, and became a KB director. KB's board also included James A. Johnson, a prominent Democrat and the former chief executive of Fannie Mae, the mortgage giant now being run by the government. Mr. Johnson did not return a phone call seeking comment.
It made for a cozy network. Fannie bought or backed many mortgages received by home buyers in the KB Home/American CityVista partnership. And Fannie's biggest mortgage client was Countrywide, whose board Mr. Cisneros had joined in 2001.
Because American CityVista was privately held, Mr. Cisneros's earnings are not disclosed. He held a 65 percent stake, and KB had the rest. In 2002, KB paid $1.24 million to American CityVista for ''services rendered.''
'A Little Too Ambitious'
One of American CityVista's first projects, unveiled in late 2000, was Lago Vista -- Spanish for ''Lake View.'' The location was unusual: San Antonio's proud and insular South Side, a Hispanic area home to secondhand car dealers, light industry and pawnshops.
Mr. Cisneros and KB pledged to transform an overgrown patch of land into a showcase. Homes were initially priced from $70,000 to about $95,000, and Mr. Cisneros promised that Lago Vista would be ringed with jogging paths and maple trees.
The paths were never built, and few trees provide shade from the Texas sun. The adjoining ''lake'' -- at one point a run-off pit for an asphalt plant -- is fenced off, a hazard to neighborhood children. The houses are gaily painted in pink, blue, yellow or tan, and most owners keep their yards green and tidy.
KB considers Lago Vista a ''model community,'' a spokeswoman said.
To get things rolling in Lago Vista, traditional bars to homeownership were lowered to the ground. Fannie Mae, CityVista and KB promoted a program allowing police officers, firefighters, teachers and others to get loans with nothing down and no closing costs.
KB marketed its developments in videos. In one from 2003, Mr. Karatz declared: ''One of the greatest misconceptions today is people who sit back and think, 'I can't afford to buy.' '' Mr. Cisneros appeared -- identified as a former HUD director -- saying the time was ripe to buy a home. Many agreed.
Victor Ramirez and Lorraine Pulido-Ramirez bought a house in Lago Vista in 2002. ''This was our first home. I had nothing to compare it to,'' Mr. Ramirez says. ''I was a student making $17,000 a year, my wife was between jobs. In retrospect, how in hell did we qualify?''
The majority of buyers in Lago Vista ''were duped into believing it was easier than it was,'' Mr. Ramirez says. ''The attitude was, 'Sign here, sign here, don't read the fine print.' '' He added that some fault lay with buyers: ''We were definitely willing victims.'' (The Ramirez family veered close to foreclosure, but the couple now have good jobs and can make their payments.)
KB and Mr. Cisneros eventually built more than a dozen developments, primarily in Texas. But the shine slowly came off Lago Vista.
''It started off fabulously,'' Mr. Karatz recalled. Then sales slowed considerably. ''It was probably, looking back, a little too ambitious to think that there would be sufficient local demand.''
And then the foreclosures started. ''A lot of people got approved for big amounts,'' says Patricia Flores, another Lago Vista homeowner. ''They bit off more than they could chew.'' Families split up under the strain of mortgage payments. One residence had so much marital turmoil that neighbors nicknamed it ''The House of Broken Love.''
Some homes were taken over and sold at a loss by HUD, which had insured them. KB was also a mortgage lender, a business many home builders pursued because it was so profitable. At times, it was also problematic.
Officials at HUD uncovered problems with KB's lending. In 2005, about two years after Mr. Cisneros left the KB board, the agency filed an administrative action against KB for approving loans based on overstated or improperly documented borrower income, and for charging excessive fees. Because HUD does not specify where improprieties take place, it is not clear if this occurred at Lago Vista.
KB Home paid $3.2 million to settle the HUD action without admitting liability or fault, one of the largest settlements collected by the agency's mortgagee review board. Shortly afterward, KB sold its lending unit to Countrywide. Then they set up a joint venture: KB installed Countrywide sales representatives in its developments.
By 2007, almost three-quarters of the loans to KB buyers were made by the joint venture. In Lago Vista, residents secured loans from a spectrum of federal agencies and lenders.
During years of heady growth, and then during a deep financial slide, Countrywide became a lightning rod for criticism about excesses and abuses leading to the housing bust -- which Countrywide routinely brushed off.
Mr. Cisneros says he was never aware of improprieties at KB or Countrywide, and worked with them because he was impressed by Mr. Karatz and Mr. Mozilo. Mr. Mozilo could not be reached for comment.
Still, Countrywide expanded subprime lending aggressively while Mr. Cisneros served on its board. In September 2004, according to documents provided by a former employee, lending audits in six of Countrywide's largest regions showed about one in eight loans was ''severely unsatisfactory'' because of shoddy underwriting.
HUD required such audits and lenders were expected to address problems. Mr. Cisneros was a member of the Countrywide committee that oversaw compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. But he says he did not recall seeing or receiving the reports.
Nor, he says, was there ever a board vote about the wisdom of subprime lending.
''The irresistible temptation to engage in subprime was Countrywide's fatal error,'' he says. ''I fault myself for not having seen it and, since it was not something I could change, having left.''
Mr. Cisneros left Countrywide's board last year. At the time, he expressed ''enormous confidence in the leadership.'' In 2003, Mr. Cisneros ended his partnership with KB because, he says, he felt constrained working with just one builder. He formed a new company with the same mission, CityView, that has raised $725 million.
Mr. Karatz has a different recollection of why the partnership ended.
''It didn't become an important part of KB's business,'' he says. ''It was profitable but I don't think as profitable in those initial years as Henry's group wanted it to be.''
Troubles in Lago Vista
Today in Lago Vista, many are just trying to get by. Residents say crime has risen, and with association dues unpaid, they cannot hire security. Salvador Gutierrez, a truck driver, woke up recently to see four men stealing the tires off his pickup. Seventeen houses are for sale, but there are few buyers.
Hugo Martinez, who got a pair of Countrywide loans to buy a two-bedroom house with no down payment, recently lost his job with a car dealership. He has a lower-paying job as a mechanic and can't refinance or sell his house.
''They make it easy when you buy,'' Mr. Martinez says. ''But after a while, the interest rate goes up. KB Home says they cannot help us at all.''
Five years ago, Carlo Lee and Patricia Reyes bought their first home, a three-bedroom house in Lago Vista.
After Mrs. Reyes became ill last year and lost her job, they fell behind on their payments. Last month, Mr. Reyes was laid off from one of his jobs, assembling cabinets. He still works part time at a hospital, but unless the couple come up with missed payments and fees, they will lose their home.
''Everyone isn't happy here in Lago Vista,'' Mr. Reyes says. ''Everyone has a lot of problems.''
Countrywide was bought recently at a fire-sale price by Bank of America. Mr. Cisneros describes Mr. Mozilo as ''sick with stress -- the final chapter of his life is the infamy that's been brought on him, or that he brought on himself.''
Mr. Karatz was forced out of KB two years ago amid a compensation scandal. Last month, without admitting or denying the allegations, he settled government charges that he illegally backdated stock options worth $6 million.
For his part, Mr. Cisneros says he is proud of Lago Vista. ''It is inaccurate to say that we put people into homes that they couldn't afford,'' he says. ''No one was forcing people into homes.''
He also remains bullish on home building, despite the current carnage.
''We're not selling cigarettes,'' he says. ''We're not drawing people into casino gambling. We're building the homes they're going to raise their families in.''
The Reckoning: Articles in this series are exploring the causes of the financial crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, 1993-97, and former member of the boards of KB Home and Countrywide Financial (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
THE DEVELOPER: Henry Cisneros in his office in San Antonio with Sylvia Arce-Garcia, an executive assistant. He is the head of CityView, a developer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE HUD CHIEF:Mr. Cisneros, second from left, when he was HUD secretary. Others, from left, are Donna Shalala, Leon Panetta and President Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1996) CHART: UNITED STATES HOME OWNERSHIP RATES (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); FAMILY (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (76%); TRENDS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); LEON E PANETTA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2011



815 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: When Others Are Queasy, Buffett Shows Confidence

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Buy American. I Am,'' by Warren E. Buffett (Op-Ed, Oct. 17):
 Mr. Buffett is a great American. He has dedicated the majority of his vast fortune to philanthropy, money that will help millions for generations to come. And now, in the midst of a violent and unprecedented economic storm, he calmly urges Americans to continue to believe, and invest, in ourselves. 
 I don't know how the Dow will react to Mr. Buffett's remarks about the stock market, but his plea that we pay heed to the lessons of history, and remain faithful to and confident of the fundamental strength of our nation, bespeaks a quality that has been sorely lacking in our political leaders recently: leadership.
 We owe Mr. Buffett our thanks, for standing firm when so many are running scared, and for inspiring us to do the same.
 Joseph J. Saltarelli New York, Oct. 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I would be delighted to emulate Warren E. Buffett and heed his advice to buy American equities if I could also buy preferred shares of Goldman Sachs paying a 10 percent dividend. 
 Martin Torodash Stockbridge, Mass., Oct. 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Warren E. Buffett's ''Buy American. I Am'' is a thoughtful, well-intended article trumpeting the long-term benefits of investing in the stock market now. The flaw in Mr. Buffett's theory is that most Americans don't feel that they have sufficient assets remaining to be able to ''park'' monies in the market for the next 15 to 20 years before seeing their investment pay off.
 Unless you were lucky or smart enough to have sold high and now are in position to buy low, you have seen your net worth plummet in the past months.
 Unlike Mr. Buffett, we don't have the luxury of taking whatever we have not invested in the markets and plunking a portion of it into a raging inferno. We need the safety net in our pockets to get us through these difficult times.
 So, Mr. Buffett, while I applaud your desire to give us sage advice, I am afraid for most of us it is too little too late.
 Robert S. Nussbaum Fort Lee, N.J., Oct. 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2008



816 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; METRICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Can a President Tame the Business Cycle?

BYLINE: By KEVIN QUEALY

 BODY:
TODAY, Americans save less andearn a lower minimum wage -- inreal, or inflation-adjusted, terms-- than at nearly any other time since1950. Can voters reasonably expectthese and other indicators to changesignificantly after a new presidenttakes office in January?As important as the economymay be for voters when they go tothe polls, many economists contendthat presidents have little power overgeneral economic performance duringtheir terms of office, even though somethings, like the minimum wage, are setby the government.David Backus, an economist at NewYork University, recently wrote onthe blog of the economist N. GregoryMankiw that while presidents mightcontribute to long-term performance,the normal ups and downs of thebusiness cycle had more of an effecton the economy in the short term.''There's some debate about wherebusiness cycles come from, but thepresident's actions are rarely on thelist,'' he wrote. 
Changes in incomes,jobs and home prices reflect this cyclicalbehavior, while other indicators,like personal savings as a percentageof disposable income, have shown agradual decline over decades. If thereis a president to praise -- or blame --for longer-term trends, he is probablynot in office now.Kevin Feltes, associate director ofthe Jerome Levy Forecasting Centerin Mount Kisco, N.Y., said that the nextpresident would most likely be reactingto the economy -- not the other wayaround.''Given the current condition of theeconomy, the next president could verywell end up running trillions of dollarsin federal deficits over the next severalyears,'' he said, ''whether he likes itor not.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How to read this graphic: These charts show yearly estimates for seven economic indicators. The values are sorted from lowest to highest, assigned a color based on their order and plotted chronologically.
For example : Deficits soared and income inequality rose during President Ronald Reagan's two terms, while personal savings were at an all-time high and job growth rose. Mr. Reagan supported tax cuts and increased military spending 40 percent in his first five years. But other factors, such as the cold war and the end of the Middle East oil crisis, also affected the economy during his presidency. (Sources: U.S. Census
Bureau of Labor and Statistics
Bureau of Economic Analysis
Haver Analytics
Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez
American Political Science Review
 Robert J. Shiller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); HOME PRICES (53%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011



817 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Museums Fear Lean Days Ahead

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Since it opened last month at the Museum of Modern Art, ''Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night'' has been attracting several thousand people each day to the second-floor galleries. Visitors can be seen waiting in line for tables at all three of the museum's restaurants, and MoMA's shops are reporting a 5 percent increase in sales over a year ago. 
 But in executive offices several floors above the bustle, officials are wondering how long the good times will last. 
 ''We know there's a storm at sea and we know it's going to hit land and it could get ugly,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, the museum's director. ''But we don't know how hard it will be or when it's coming. So we are trying to make educated guesses.'' 
 As a result, the museum instituted a temporary hiring freeze last week as well as a 10 percent cut in its general operating budget that will be revisited in December. 
 Across the country directors like Mr. Lowry are bracing for the effects of an economic crisis that could change everything from the size and kinds of exhibitions a museum presents to the acquisitions it could afford and the merchandise it should offer in its shops. 
 Already the financial-market meltdown has diminished the endowment funds that cover museums' day-to-day operating expenses. Lehman Brothers, for years a crucial sponsor for museums across the country, is no more. Surviving banking institutions and corporations that also have been the bedrock of exhibition support are likely to give far less or cut off gifts altogether. 
 Even the most beneficent of museum trustees are feeling the pinch. So are paying members, like the 115,000 signed up by MoMA who fork out anywhere from $50 (student membership) to $60,000 for their privileges. Directors and curators are thus in a holding pattern, waiting to see if year-end gifts materialize or membership revenues take a tumble.
 ''Caution is the word of the moment,'' Mr. Lowry said. 
 At the Brooklyn Museum, which opened a critically praised retrospective of the British artists Gilbert and George two weeks ago, officials are already fretting about a midcareer retrospective next June devoted to the British-Nigerian artist Yinka Shonibare. So far no money has been raised for the show, said the museum's director, Arnold L. Lehman.
 ''There is no safety net,'' he added. ''We're being squeezed at every end.''
 Yet slowly and methodically, museums have been mapping out strategies for dealing with the potential shortfall. 
 Although few anticipated the global shock waves that accompanied the market slide, internal planners had long been aware that a downturn was in the making. Even as far back as late-2001, when terrorism insurance became a major issue, museums predicted a drop in loans and urged curators to focus on inventive shows drawing from their permanent collections. 
 Evidence that museums have been more creative with their holdings ranges from MoMA's van Gogh exhibition, which uses the museum's ''Starry Night'' as its centerpiece, to ''Kirchner and the Berlin Street,'' which revolves around two seminal paintings owned by the museum, although both shows include loans from the United States and abroad. The Metropolitan Museum of Art, which for years has been presenting shows based on its holdings, will open ''Reality Check: Truth and Illusion in Contemporary Photography'' on Nov. 4, featuring 30 works from its holdings. 
 Many predict that the impact of the slowdown will become far clearer at the end of the year, by which time most individuals will have made their annual tax-deductible donations. Museum officials will also be holding their breath to see whether loyal donors continue to give art or will be forced to sell part of their collections to raise capital for themselves. 
 ''There is bound to be belt-tightening across the board,'' said Michael Govan, director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. ''I imagine a lot of donors who are leveraged will probably be postponing decisions until the first of the year. A lot of people are waiting to see what happens, which means things will be put on hold.'' 
 Mr. Govan said that he also wondered how the economic crisis would affect memberships, a crucial revenue stream for all museums. ''We're competing with buying gas and going out to dinner,'' he said. 
 The Los Angeles museum's memberships, which bring in about $8 million a year, range from $25 at the student level to $50,000 for members of the Director's Circle (a status that affords what the museum terms ''intimate dinners with artists and the director'').
 In New York, meanwhile, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office has asked the department of cultural affairs, which decides how much city money each museum receives, along with other city agencies, to reduce its spending by 2.5 percent in the current fiscal year, which ends June 30, and make an additional 5 percent cut in the next one. 
 Since most of the museums' big loan shows are planned years ahead, development offices are scrambling to arrange financing for exhibitions that won't open for several years. While few officials will discuss the matter for attribution, most admit that the effort is more difficult than ever.
 Still, not all supporters are cutting back. So far the discount retailer Target, for instance, continues to finance 1,500 free days a year at more than 70 museums across the country even though it reported that its sales are down 3 percent from this time last year. 
 Supporters like U.B.S. and Bank of America said last week that they were still planning support for museums next year, although they declined to provide figures. Many point out that cultural philanthropy is not only a way of building good public relations with arts audiences but also a way to telegraph that they are still in business and confident. 
 At Bank of America, which announced this month that it wanted to raise $10 billion in additional capital because of weaker-than-expected earnings, officials said they had no plans to stop supporting cultural institutions. ''In times like these it's especially important,'' said Rena M. DeSisto, Bank of America's arts and culture executive.
 Customer surveys indicate that clients appreciate the company's support of the arts, she said, so ''it's a marketing decision.'' 
 Although she declined to say how much the bank has invested in the arts over the last few years or intended to spend in 2009, Ms. DeSisto said the bank had helped to finance ''Monet to Dali: Modern Masters From the Cleveland Museum of Art,'' which opened last week at the Detroit Institute of Arts; ''Pompeii and the Roman Villa: Art and Culture Around the Bay of Naples,'' which opened on Sunday at the National Gallery of Art in Washington and goes to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in May; and ''Becoming Edvard Munch: Influence, Anxiety and Myth,'' which arrives Feb. 14 at the Art Institute of Chicago. 
 U.B.S., which is perhaps best known in the art world for sponsoring the Art Basel fair in Switzerland and its counterpart Art Basel Miami Beach, said it planned to continue supporting such contemporary-art projects. ''But this year we have to be more diligent with every dollar spent, '' said Peter Dillon, head of sponsorship at U.B.S. in America. ''And get more for our money.'' 
 Typically corporate museum members, who spend $25,000 to $40,000 for their subscriptions, gain free admission for their employees and, at the higher end of largess, use of the museum for parties. Now as these corporations go to the bargaining table, they are asking for more -- advertising on bus shelters and street banners, in magazines and online -- in exchange for less. 
 From the museums' side, gift shops that in good times offered expensive jewelry, china or furniture are beginning to lower their price points, several directors said. 
 But even in the face of leaner times, some directors are trying to find an upside. 
 ''Making the best of our permanent collections is no bad thing,'' said William M. Griswold, director of the Morgan Library and Museum in Manhattan. 
 And if art prices start to nosedive, said Mr. Govan in Los Angeles, ''maybe we'll finally be able to afford to buy things.'' 
 Mr. Govan and others said that in tough times, museums that viewed one another as competitors might find themselves working better together. 
 And some directors argue that museums are not simply a great escape, but good value compared with a movie that can cost about $12 and end in two hours. At a museum, many said, visitors can spend an entire day and often take in a movie, too. 
 Then there's the more cosmic view. ''Art doesn't lose its emotional or artistic value,'' Mr. Govan said. ''That doesn't change no matter what the economy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The current ''Gilbert & George'' show at the Brooklyn Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



818 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Collateral Damage

 BODY:
Developing countries have sparked their share of international financial crises over the years. But this time it is not their fault. 
 As the world's richest nations spend trillions to rescue their own financial systems from the maelstrom caused by years of excess, they must also be prepared to provide billions to poorer countries that did not cause this crisis but are nevertheless its victims. 
 The developing world has been caught up big time in the global credit squeeze, as beleaguered foreign banks have cut their credit lines and panicked foreign investors have pulled their money out. Private capital flows to emerging markets are expected to plummet 30 percent this year. 
 Exports are suffering as rich economies slow and commodity prices retreat. Remittances from migrant workers -- a core source of earnings for many developing countries -- are falling fast. 
 Eastern and Central Europe, where much of the banking system is controlled by Western banks, is in particularly dire straights. Ukraine asked the International Monetary Fund for $14 billion to prop up its financial system as money flees. Hungary got 5 billion euros from the European Central Bank. 
 Pakistan -- America's hoped-for ally in the fight against Al Qaeda that also has nuclear weapons -- is said to need $3 billion to $4 billion to finance a gaping trade deficit.
 Even robust economies with strong budgets and ample reserves have been walloped by the capital crunch. Two weeks ago, the Mexican peso suffered its steepest drop since the peso crisis of December 1994. The Brazilian real and the Korean won have plunged by a quarter against the dollar.
 Given the depth of the crisis here, it might be tempting to ignore the plight of developing economies. But it is in the clear economic interest of wealthy nations to help. The I.M.F. expects these countries to be the only engine of global growth in the next year or so. 
 Fortunately, some people are thinking ahead. The International Finance Corporation, an arm of the World Bank, is mulling a $3 billion fund to help recapitalize shaky banking systems in the world's poorest countries. The Inter-American Development Bank said it would increase its lending and announced a $6 billion facility to help companies in smaller Latin American countries that lose access to funding.
 The I.M.F. said it is flush with cash --$200 billion plus an additional $50 billion in standing credit arrangements with donor countries -- to mobilize if needed. For that it will need the go-ahead from the United States and other big contributors. The I.M.F. must also be ready to relax -- within reason -- the battery of preconditions it usually attaches to its help. 
 The world's richest countries have exhibited enormous myopia throughout this crisis -- originally scurrying for ad hoc individual ''solutions'' that worsened the collective mess. Less than two weeks ago, Washington and Brussels allowed Iceland to go bust.
 As the world's financial powers struggle to contain the disaster, they should not lose sight of its effect on other countries. Every economy for itself makes no sense -- and could prove highly dangerous -- in today's interconnected world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); EURO (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (54%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); MEXICO (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



819 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Far From Home and Losing Hope

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -- More than 50 day laborers stood, bored, anxious and mostly silent, in the sun-blasted parking lot of a Home Depot here last week, tracking the ebb and flow of customers and hoping for work. The hours crawled by. Six, maybe seven men scored jobs. The rest just waited.
''To stand here doesn't make a lot of sense to a lot of people,'' Jairo Mancillas, 29, a day laborer from El Salvador, said glumly as he waited on a grassy median in the parking lot. ''But to us, it's a very important thing. It means a lot.''
This bleak scene is playing out at scores of day laborer sites across the region. Here on Long Island; under the elevated No. 7 line on Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson Heights, Queens; at the intersection of Port Richmond Avenue and Castleton Avenue on Staten Island; along Bay Parkway in Brooklyn; near highway on-ramps in Westchester County; and into New Jersey and Connecticut, clusters of day laborers, their numbers swelled by people laid off from full-time jobs, wait for work that, more often than not, never comes. 
Two years ago, when the economy was booming and home-building was thriving, many of these same laborers were working every day. Now, they are lucky if they work twice a week, many of them say. Their lives have become a test of wits, patience and hope.
Simple lives have become simpler. The laborers, most of them illegal immigrants, said they had stopped eating in restaurants, buying new clothes and sending money home to their families. In interviews with more than a dozen laborers in New York City and its suburbs, many said they were thinking about returning to their homelands.
Carmelo Pena Garcia, 59, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who waits for work every day at Roosevelt Avenue and 69th Street in Queens, said he was trying to make just enough money to buy a plane ticket home. ''Sometimes you don't sleep because you are thinking about work and nothing else,'' he said on a recent morning.
Here in Hempstead, Mr. Mancillas said, ''The American dream isn't an American dream.''
The amount of money sent by immigrants in the United States to Latin America and the Caribbean is expected to increase this year over last year, according to the Inter-American Development Bank, which has been tracking remittances since 2000. But when adjusted for inflation, the value of the remittances is actually expected to decline. The bank attributed the drop to several factors, including the economic downturn in the United States, inflation and a weaker dollar.
Like other day laborers, Mr. Mancillas came to the United States with the intention of making money to help his family. In his village of Ahuachapan, El Salvador, he was a tailor and worked from home, making trousers for adults and children. But he was barely scraping by and decided to try his luck in the United States.
He left his wife and two young daughters behind, and with the help of a smuggler, whom he paid $2,500, traveled through Guatemala and Mexico, sneaked across the border into California, then made his way to Hempstead in 2005.
Work came quickly at first, he said. Every morning just after dawn he and many other day laborers would gather outside a Home Depot, and most days, he was hired. In flush times, he made as much as $800 a week. He would send $600 home and use the balance for food, clothes and his half of the $500 monthly rent for a tiny room he shared with another laborer in a rooming house in Hempstead.
He and his friends made enough to be able to eat meals in restaurants and buy clothes -- for themselves and their families -- at the mall. Mr. Mancillas would fill boxes with toys and other goods and ship them to his daughters in El Salvador.
But work slowed last year and now has nearly dried up: In the past several months, like many other laborers, he has been working once or twice a week, making between $80 and $200.
The drop in wages for Mr. Mancillas has resulted in sacrifices, large and small.
Mr. Mancillas said he now shops for clothes at the Salvation Army. He no longer eats out and instead subsists on basic home-cooked food or rice and beans from Latino delicatessens. He has also stopped buying clothes and toys for his family.
Most significantly, he said, the remittances home are much smaller and less frequent. Some weeks he does not send any money at all.
As the economy has worsened, the number of laborers gathering at the Home Depot here has grown, making the competition for fewer jobs that much fiercer. The newcomers have arrived from other cities, thinking things would be better in New York. Or they have been laid off from longer-term jobs in manufacturing and construction, either as a result of the economy or because of tougher crackdowns on illegal immigrants.
As demand for day labor has plunged, some employers have taken advantage of the glut of workers by paying them less or not paying them at all, several workers said.
One of Mr. Mancillas's friends, David, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, said a contractor did not pay him for several days of work soon after he arrived last year in Hempstead. But he did not seek help from the authorities because he was afraid of being deported.
''He owed me $1,000,'' said David, who refused to give his last name. ''But fear kept my mouth shut.''
The crowd thinned throughout the day as workers gave up and went home, most to shared rooms in houses full of other laborers with little to do but watch television. By midafternoon, fewer than 20 remained. Some sat alone on the curbs of the medians, seemingly lost in their thoughts, but still keeping an eye out for potential employers.
''When you return to the house and you haven't worked and you can't provide for your family, you feel really bad,'' Mr. Mancillas said.
Another of Mr. Mancillas's friends, a 23-year-old Salvadoran named Junior Garcia, spotted a Home Depot customer trying to wrestle some lumber into the back of a van and sprinted over to help him. (Mr. Garcia would get a $10 tip out of it, a small windfall.)
A few minutes passed. The men watched cars drive by.
Wilfredo Hernandez, 38, who was also from El Salvador, broke the silence. ''I used to go to restaurants all the time, drink beers,'' he said. ''One night I went to the restaurant Hooters. You know Hooters?'' He itemized his meal from that night: a hamburger ($10) and four beers ($20). ''I gave the waitress $36,'' he said wistfully.
The men said they did not know much about the turmoil in the financial markets. ''The investment in the war in Iraq is the reason, right?'' Mr. Mancillas asked. But while the details might have been obscure to them, the realities of the country's economic malaise were plainly, and painfully, evident.
''The situation in the United States has gotten bad,'' Mr. Garcia said, fiddling with a paint-splattered tape measure he carried on his belt. ''I didn't think it was going to come to this.''
''Let's see what sort of changes a new president brings,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''If it continues the same, I'll go back.''
The men grew silent again and continued to scan the lot. The idea of returning home was not a popular topic. And anyway, the day was not over yet, and there was still a chance, however slight, of work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEST OF WITS AND PATIENCE: A day laborer eats ramen for lunch while waiting for a job outside Home Depot in Hempstead, on Long Island.
 A RUSH FOR WORK: A scrum of laborers rushes to a potential employer at Home Depot. Two years ago, many worked every day. Now, few do. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEATRICE de GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (80%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (80%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



820 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: Some Papers in Financial Trouble Are Leaving The A.P. to Cut Costs

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
For most of its 137-year history, The Columbus Dispatch has carried articles and images from The Associated Press. Like most big American newspapers, it supplements the work of its own staff with dozens of items daily from The A.P.
 That may end soon.
 Unhappy with both the A.P. service and its price -- more than $800,000 a year at a time when The Dispatch's finances are severely pinched -- the paper on Friday took the once-unthinkable step of saying it would drop the service. 
 What had been a minor newspaper rebellion against The A.P. suddenly grew much more serious last week, when the Tribune Company, one of the largest newspaper chains, said on Thursday that it would drop out of the association, followed by The Dispatch's announcement. A handful of papers have made the same move over the last few months, but with the exception of The Star Tribune of Minneapolis, they were relatively small. 
 Tribune, in disclosing the plan to sever its ties with The A.P., voiced no complaints about the service, saying only that it needed to cut costs. The move raised the prospect of major Tribune papers like The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune publishing without the aid of a wire service that has been an essential part of American journalism since the cooperative was established more than a century and a half ago. 
 But editors and publishers at some other papers have become vocal critics of the way The A.P. operates, saying that it charges more than they can afford, delivers too little of what they need and -- particularly galling to them -- is sometimes acting as their competitor on the Internet.
 ''They seem to have forgotten that they are there to serve us,'' said Benjamin J. Marrison, editor of The Dispatch.
 That anger spilled into public view in April at a meeting in Washington when the president and chief executive of The A.P., Tom Curley, discussed his plans to cut prices and add new services -- and then watched as editor after editor stood to scold him.
 The A.P. says it is trying to save money for its more than 1,400 member newspapers, and all the changes under way will benefit them. Kathleen Carroll, executive editor of The A.P., said the protests came from a small number of papers and stem from ''some element of misunderstanding about what A.P. is trying to do'' and frustration over the papers' finances.
 ''I don't think any of us can ignore the economic circumstances newspapers are in now,'' Ms. Carroll said. ''Being the editor of a newspaper in the United States right now is really hard.''
 Contractually, newspapers must give two years' notice to drop the service, so those that recently opted out have until 2010 to change their minds. A.P. executives say they suspect that some papers are using that notice as leverage to bargain for lower rates.
 In addition to the papers that said they would leave the wire, others are considering it, and still others have set up regional cooperatives meant to supplant part of their relationship with The A.P. -- a trial run for life after the wire service. 
 Newspapers are going through their most wrenching time since the Depression, with advertising revenue falling about 25 percent over the last two years. But the balance sheet of The A.P., a nonprofit company, is healthy; last year its profit rose 81 percent, to $24 million, on revenue of $710 million, according to a financial statement issued to its members.
 It remains to be seen whether defections become a major problem for The A.P., the world's largest news-gathering organization with more than 3,000 journalists in about 100 countries. Without the rich diet of articles, photographs, audio and video it feeds its clients, most American newspapers would be much slimmer and their coverage less expansive.
 Newspapers banded together 162 years ago to create The Associated Press. Only daily papers in the United States can be members, giving them ownership and a vote in elections for the board. The company has more than 5,000 other domestic clients -- broadcasters, Web sites, weekly papers and magazines -- and roughly 8,500 abroad. 
 In addition to the news that A.P. reporters produce, the wire also takes breaking news articles from its members and distributes them to other clients.
 For many members, The A.P. is one of their biggest expenses.
 ''We pay in excess of $1 million a year to The A.P., which is equal to 10 to 12 reporters in the newsroom,'' said Nancy Barnes, editor of The Star Tribune. 
 Several editors interviewed for this article said they could find other sources for written material -- wire services like Reuters or Bloomberg News, or the news services sold by major newspaper companies. But other A.P. products, especially photography, would be harder to replace, they said.
 ''We thought, 'We have two years to try and figure this out,' '' Ms. Barnes said. Her paper is one of the industry's most troubled; it recently stopped making payments on its debt.
 This summer, dissatisfied with the way The A.P. handles local news, eight papers in Ohio formed a cooperative to share articles, and some of those papers say they might drop the wire service. Newspapers in Pennsylvania are exploring a similar arrangement.
 ''We're facing terrible economic challenges, so naturally we're looking at one of our biggest costs,'' said David Shribman, executive editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
 The editors in Ohio, in particular, say The A.P. has retreated from one of its traditional roles: producing a lot of routine, breaking-news articles.
 The A.P. wants to make its work more engaging, with more enterprise journalism like features, investigations and analyses -- but that is also the direction many papers are going. 
 Mr. Marrison of The Columbus Dispatch said that course had forced newspapers to devote more resources to small stories that used to be covered by The A.P. ''Then The A.P. rewrites our story and sends it out,'' he said. ''So we're sacrificing our enterprise so that A.P. can do its enterprise? No, no, no. We're the owners.''
 Ms. Carroll of The A.P. said it had only ''trimmed back on things that weren't getting much use.''
 ''We're not trying to absolve ourselves from nuts-and-bolts news, but we cannot survive if we are spending our day doing the mark-up of some legislative measure that is of interest to one part of the state but not another,'' she said.
 The A.P. does not release details about what clients pay, but newspapers' fees vary based on their circulation and the services they receive. For the last three years, the company has held those fees flat. The A.P. says the fees are partly subsidized by the higher prices it charges to nonmember clients, which account for about three-quarters of its revenue. 
 The A.P. says that a new price structure, set to go into effect in January, will give papers a 10 percent price cut on average. But even that plan caused complaints, leading to multiple revisions since it was first announced last year.
 Papers object to a requirement that they allow The A.P. to apply its electronic tags to the articles they publish in order for the papers to qualify for the discounted fees. 
 The tags are bits of computer code, invisible to readers, that are intended to make Web pages rank high in Internet searches. While The A.P. says that most member papers have signed up for the tagging program, the largest newspapers, including The New York Times, have developed their own tagging systems and so far have not switched to The A.P.'s.
 The A.P. recently introduced an ad-supported mobile Internet service, fed by its own work and that of newspapers in the tagging program. To some newspaper executives, the mobile service looks like a bid by The A.P. to make money from their work -- and to compete with the papers' own mobile services.
 ''If you want our content, you should have to come to us for it,'' said Ms. Barnes of The Star Tribune. 
 Similarly, some editors and publishers dislike The A.P.'s practice of selling a news service to aggregators like Google and Yahoo; they want their own articles on those sites instead.
 Jim Kennedy, an A.P. vice president and its director for strategic planning, said that papers should not see The A.P. as a competitor. He said the mobile network would share ad revenue with participating papers -- many of which do not have the resources to develop such services -- and drive Internet traffic to those papers.
 ''We're trying to be the portal, linking back to the contributors,'' he said. ''We know there are members who would rather we didn't license our content to Google,'' he said, ''but the money The A.P. gets from that helps defray the costs that members don't pay.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Curley, the chief executive of The Associated Press, answered complaints from newspaper editors last April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Benjamin J. Marrison, the editor of The Columbus Dispatch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RUSSELL/THE COLUMBUS DISPATCH) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



821 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Artist of Rich Shoppers Has Madison Ave. as a Storefront

BYLINE: By LILY KOPPEL

 BODY:
Along a stretch of Madison Avenue filled with stores specializing in items with hefty price tags, Peter Zonis is a familiar face. For the last seven years, Mr. Zonis, an artist who works in oil pastel, has sold whimsical, vibrantly colored New York City street scenes outside Barneys. His subjects are familiar to his Chanel- and Prada-clad clientele: scenes of Barneys New York, Bergdorf Goodman, Bloomingdale's, Harry Winston, Hermes and Tiffany. 
 Inspired by certain Manhattan precincts where money and shopping are paramount, Mr. Zonis depicts men in tailored Italian suits cradling cellphones, and curvaceous women teetering on high heels and toting shopping bags while walking their lap dogs. He renders restaurants where people go not only to eat but also to be seen, like Nello, La Goulue and Balthazar.
 In one canvas, a lone blond woman clutching a designer handbag stares forlornly into a Christmas window display at Barneys. In another, the spires of the Plaza Hotel appear as if in a fairy tale. 
 Though Mr. Zonis sees his work as high art, likening his style to the Fauvist movement, he is not represented by a gallery. Instead, Madison Avenue is his storefront, where art, fashion and commerce collide as they do in his artwork. The boldface names that he says have bought his work are printed on a postcard he hands out: Robert De Niro, Joe Namath and Harvey Weinstein, among others. His price range, from $500 to $5,000, reflects his business address.
 ''Yesterday, David Chapelle was looking at my stuff -- he didn't seem uptight about the prices,'' said Mr. Zonis, 50, who lives in a penthouse apartment in the East Village. ''When you sell on the street, you can feel the economic vibe better than anybody.'' 
 So there is no doubt that street artists like Mr. Zonis are among those feeling the fallout from the economic crisis. But the very nature of making a living by being a street merchant means, he says, always having ''the fear factor propel you.''
 Now, Mr. Zonis is harnessing the ''nervousness'' in the air as inspiration for his newest work, which focuses on the turmoil on Wall Street. 
 ''I'm dealing with money, temptation and greed,'' said Mr. Zonis, describing a new drawing in which ''people are fighting for money, gold, coins.'' In one composition, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is shown falling from the sky in a storm of cash.
 Mr. Zonis is no stranger to financial hardship. 
 ''With all of my talent,'' he said, ''until I was in my mid-40s I had never sold any work.'' Mr. Zonis, who grew up outside Boston, said that after graduating from the Rhode Island School of Design, he moved to New York in the early 1980s. His first job was on Wall Street designing corporate reports for an investment firm while studying at the Art Students League.
 He was working at the Museum of Modern Art bookstore, making $10 an hour, he says, when fate intervened and Elle Petrincic, an Australian redhead who is now his manager and muse, came into his life. 
 The two met on a park bench about eight years ago during Mr. Zonis's lunch hour. At the time, Ms. Petrincic said, she was checking coats at the Monkey Bar and looking for her 30th restaurant job. She also needed a place to live because the 67-year-old man she was staying with was chasing her around the apartment, calling her his ''birthday present.'' 
 Mr. Zonis offered to let her stay in his Brooklyn studio, where Ms. Petrincic slept on the floor in a sleeping bag amid his hundreds of paintings. Ms. Petrincic said that what followed started as revenge. She suggested that he paint all of the expensive restaurants where she had worked as a hostess and had less-than-fond feelings for. She gave Mr. Zonis copies of Vogue magazine so he could sketch ''the fashionistas'' who now populate his Madison Avenue landscapes. 
 She told Mr. Zonis that he needed ''to draw Barneys, the store I love more than anything else in the world.'' She also persuaded him to peddle his art in front of the store, where she had often spent hours trying on clothes she could not afford. ''Anybody who's anybody comes to Barneys,'' Ms. Petrincic said. 
 On his first day selling, in 2001, a woman in a red dress swept out of Barneys, pointed to his painting of the store and said, ''I want one of those.'' He sold his first painting for $250.
 ''When I started to sell, it was like a tornado,'' Mr. Zonis recalled, ''a fast payback for what I missed out on all of those years. It's been like magic ever since.''
 Ms. Petrincic, who still lives with Mr. Zonis, said: ''Life started when he put his stuff on Madison Avenue. He's the frog prince.'' Ms. Petrincic is busy documenting Mr. Zonis's work with her digital camera. 
 ''We're not boyfriend and girlfriend,'' Ms. Petrincic said. ''We're two people who collided to change each others' destinies.'' 
 It's an odd story, but a bullfighting dream about Ernest Hemingway that Ms. Petrincic once had was the reason that the statue of the charging bull near Wall Street found its way into many of his earlier paintings. Mr. Zonis has returned to the same in his recent paintings dealing with the financial crisis.
 He is also adding American flags to his pictures, as he did after Sept. 11. ''We survived that and we will survive this,'' he said. ''People buy art because it is healing. They tell me, when they are down or depressed, 'A Zonis takes me away from my problems.' ''
 On a recent day, wearing a brown corduroy jacket over a black T-shirt with a heart on it, Mr. Zonis appeared younger than someone who had just celebrated his 50th birthday. Two women, one in silver Tory Burch flats, stopped to admire his work. ''Serafina!'' squealed one of them, recognizing the bright yellow awning of one of her favorite Upper East Side restaurants.
 Simon Doonan, who is well known as Barneys's creative director, stopped by. ''I'm very flattered that he takes inspiration from our windows,'' Mr. Doonan said. ''I don't know what his prices are like, but probably quite comparable to ours. So, you can go in and buy a Balenciaga bag and come out and buy a piece of art which relates to the world of fashion.''
 While the financial crisis is weighing on the minds of many, Mr. Zonis is an optimist. ''This is an extremely exciting time for me as an artist,'' he said. ''I feel my best work has just started.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Zonis with potential customers outside Barneys New York on Madison near 61st Street, where Mr. Zonis sells his oil pastels.
 Mr. Zonis depicts his clients' turf: upscale boutiques and favorites like the restaurant Balthazar and the Hotel Pierre, with men in tailored suits and women toting lap dogs. He is working on a Wall Street theme: ''I'm dealing with money, temptation and greed.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STREET ART (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); ROBERT DE NIRO (50%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



822 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Joint U.S.-New York Inquiry Into Credit-Default Swaps

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
In an unusual partnership, New York State and federal prosecutors are investigating trading in credit-default swaps, the insurancelike securities that have come under close scrutiny for their role in the financial crisis.
 Prosecutors are looking at whether traders manipulated the largely unregulated market for credit-default swaps to drive down the price of financial shares over the last year, people briefed on the investigation said.
 In the swaps market, investors buy and sell insurance protection against defaults on bonds. The cost of the protection, also known as a spread, rises when investors grow more concerned about the viability of companies. 
 Since the spring, spreads surged on swaps tied to debt issued by Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and other financial firms. Those companies' shares also tumbled, in part, analysts say, because the cost of protecting their debt was rising.
 Collaborations between the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, and the United States attorney in Manhattan, Michael J. Garcia, are not frequent, legal experts say. That suggests the two men believe the case is too big and significant to pursue independently. 
 Representatives for both men confirmed their effort on Friday. The Securities and Exchange Commission is also looking into credit-default swaps.
 Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Garcia are investigating whether investors drove up the price of swaps in transactions that were reported to data providers but never actually completed, according to people briefed on the investigation. If so, that would have helped anybody who sold short financial shares. In a short-sale, investors sell stocks they do not own in the hopes of buying them back later at a lower price.
 To identify whether there was any manipulation, Mr. Cuomo's office has issued subpoenas seeking data from various parts of the industry, including stock exchanges, investment firms and three companies involved in processing trades in swaps and stocks, according to people briefed on the inquiry. 
 Those firms are: the Depository Trust Clearing Corporation, which serves as the clearing agent for most financial transactions including swaps and stocks; Markit, which provides swaps data to Wall Street banks and investors; and Bloomberg, the financial data company whose electronic system is used by traders to track markets and communicate with one another.
 The inquiry is in preliminary stages, and people familiar with the investigation say it may not lead to a prosecution.
 One investor, who asked for anonymity to avoid drawing attention to his firm, said the swaps market was becoming a convenient scapegoat for regulators. He added that evidence of traders' manipulating share prices was largely circumstantial. 
 Concerns about the market have prompted the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to push investment firms to move trading in credit-default swaps to a regulated exchange by year's end.
 Joseph A. Grundfest, a former commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission and now a professor at Stanford Law School, said a partnership between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Garcia made sense given the complexity of the swaps market. This is ''an international market and it might well be easier for the United States attorney to get information from some foreign sources than have a local prosecutor pursue the information,'' he said.
 In the past, the state attorney general and the United States attorney's office have often competed with each other on major white-collar crime cases, like the investigation of Frank Quattrone, the former Credit Suisse banker who was acquitted last year of federal obstruction of justice charges. Tensions between the offices ran high when Eliot Spitzer, the former New York governor, was attorney general.
 While the United States attorney's office brings criminal cases, the attorney general's office typically pursues civil cases, though it can pursue criminal charges. ''The efforts of the U.S. attorney's office, whose primary role will be to determine whether any federal laws have been violated, will serve to complement the broader mandate of the attorney general's office,'' Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for Mr. Garcia, said in a statement.
 Several senior lawyers in Mr. Cuomo's office, including his deputy counselor and special assistant, Benjamin M. Lawsky, previously worked in the United States attorney's office. ''The probe will bring together top prosecutors from both offices while simultaneously avoiding multiple competing investigations,'' Alex Detrick, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew M. Cuomo
 Michael J. Garcia 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (94%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAWYERS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



823 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Less Mad, Less Loud, Still Watched

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last Friday afternoon, Jim Cramer, CNBC's star stock-picker, took time before taping his hourlong show, ''Mad Money,'' to talk to a visitor in the cable network's headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 
 After weeks of dreadful performance, it looked as if the Dow was finally giving investors a chance to exhale, up some 200 points during the day, though it later ended down 127 points. He chatted for a few minutes about how the market's volatility was testing everyone, then he happened to glance at the computer screen in his office. 
 ''We're now down a hundred just since we started talking,'' he said, shaking his head in disbelief. ''Wow, what a terrible market.''
 So terrible that Jim Cramer, the happy warrior who cheered the Dow on his cable show surrounded by his menagerie of stuffed animals, sound effects and bobble-heads has traded the pom-poms for a votive candle, praying that the market finds a way to right itself -- and maybe restore some of the luster to his chosen profession. 
 After years of selling the stock market as a reliable path to riches, Mr. Cramer came in for some brutal criticism recently from viewers and competitors. 
 In March, he said Bear Stearns ''is not in trouble.'' After Bear Stearns tipped over, he wrote in his New York magazine column that the bottom had finally come. ''I feel the bear has been tamed, and the worst of the clawing is over,'' he said. And on Sept. 15, he hosted his friend Robert Steel, chief executive of Wachovia, and suggested that its $10.71 share price was a bargain. Two weeks later, it was at $1.84. 
 On Oct. 6, he went on the ''Today'' show on NBC (which, like CNBC, is owned by NBC Universal) and said, ''Whatever money you may need for the next five years, please take it out of the stock market. Right now. This week,'' he told a surprised Ann Curry. ''I do not believe that you should risk those assets in the stock markets.''
 The Dow dropped 18 percent in the week that followed. In a follow-up visit to ''Today,'' one of the viewers wrote in to accuse him of shouting fire in a crowded building. (His reply: ''But what happens if there is a fire in the building?'') When the Dow zoomed up 936 points on the following Monday, he was accused of leaving his loyal viewers standing on the sidelines.
 He says he has tried to make amends for Bear Stearns and Wachovia. 
 ''I apologized to my viewers,'' he said. ''I apologized on the 'Today' show. It is a completely humbling market.'' But he won't apologize for his five-year comment. 
 ''It was one of the greatest calls of my life,'' he said, ''and I've been pilloried for it.'' 
 At a time when people are looking for heads to roll, the man who likes to tear the noggins off bobble-heads is a pretty ripe target.
 Even with all the finger-pointing and funeral crepe, however, Jim Cramer still loves running his show and his mouth about the market, even if the market is not loving him back. But the game plan has changed along with the context. 
 Now a show that promises to ''make you some money'' spends time talking about defensive investing, capital preservation and -- this really hurts -- trying to find value in dividends, normally the refuge of conservative investors minding their purse strings.
 He concedes that ''when you don't have a lot of things going right, the show becomes a different exercise.'' So ''Mad Money,'' a loud, dirty pleasure for some of us during the run-up, has become like watching ESPN's ''SportsCenter'' with every team stuck on a losing streak.
 ''I'm a home team guy and my home team is the bulls in my audience,'' he said, the wear and tear of the past few weeks evident in his voice. ''Right now, my team is losing.''
 Oddly, however, Mr. Cramer isn't. The brutal gyrations of the market have been good for ratings. Since Sept. 15, when Lehman Brothers tanked, Merrill Lynch was sold for parts and A.I.G. teetered, ''Mad Money'' has averaged 427,000 viewers, nearly double its average of 222,000 for the prior four weeks. 
 Because of his job as a television picker, Mr. Cramer, a former hedge fund savant with lots of money, has minimal exposure to this huge downside. (He owns stock in General Electric, the parent company of CNBC, and in TheStreet.com, but nothing else in order to avoid conflicts.)
 But the market is a terrible place to be and it happens to be the place where Mr. Cramer day trades on his persona. He still appears on television screens at a camera-ready desk that is decorated by a herd of animal figurines. The bulls still outnumber the bears by two to one -- there are a few pigs thrown in for good measure -- but the man who sits behind it and rants knows better. He is not predicting that the bottom has arrived or will be here any time soon.
 ''Can we have the recession first before we decide that we've found the bottom?'' he said. ''I want to see the things that typically happen in a recession before we say it's the bottom, and then I will be more positive.''
 On Friday's show, one of his featured stocks was Watsco, a heating and ventilation company that was paying out decent dividends as its stock sunk along with the rest of the market.
 ''This company is paying you to wait for the bottom,'' he said with his characteristic gusto as he stalked the Steadicam in studio. Later in the same show, he suggested that ''this is a time when you try to hunker down and lose less than the other guys.'' 
 It makes for a far less festive hour with a manic guy who treats the camera as an opponent in a wrestling match. (CNBC has a content-sharing agreement with The New York Times.) 
 On ''Mad Money'' he now makes fewer recommendations and is hitting the button marked ''House of Pain'' a lot more often than the one marked ''House of Pleasure,'' but tearing the horns off a bull does not make it any more relevant to an economy rendered in fragile china. 
 Mr. Cramer will never be Suze Orman, telling you how to carefully handle the money you have left. He is a blue sky kind of guy, a creature of a fast-fading era. The viewers still shout ''Booyah,'' when they call in, but nobody, including Mr. Cramer, is feeling it. 
 ''We are still going to try and find things, but it's harder to have a good batting average. It is harder to get it right than any time I have seen in my career,'' he said.
 Fox Business Network, sensing an opportunity to tweak CNBC, has developed print and broadcast ads that take ripe aim at Mr. Cramer, saying, ''The last thing you need is bad advice. The last thing you need is Jim Cramer.'' To add insult to injury, Fox bought local time on CNBC -- beating up Mr. Cramer on his own network. (Nice touch, that.)
 The ad is vintage Roger Ailes, the chairman of the Fox News Channel who once upon a time also ran CNBC. Fox's business channel has had a slow start, with a fraction of CNBC's viewers and an audience that is rarely big enough to be publicly rated by Nielsen. It was the kind of attack ad that would fit right into the closing weeks of a presidential campaign. The message: money is not fun anymore. It is political, it is scary, and it is brutal. 
 ''I like Roger, he taught me a lot,'' he said about the times they worked together. ''He taught me I am a hate 'em or like 'em person. The hated is the flip side of being liked.''
 And sometimes, it depends on who's doing the flipping. While much has been made of his bad calls, has Mr. Cramer been more wrong than say, Ben Bernanke or Henry Paulson? His enthusiasms may have led some to overindex into a crumbling market, but his audience is composed of consenting adults, aspiring rich guys who are willing to play in the Street to make it happen. He didn't make the kind of short-sighted executive moves that tipped over investment banks or put taxpayers on the hook. He's just a barker in front of a tent that is collapsing.
 As the markets performed another U-turn on Friday, the script for ''Mad Money'' became a crisscross of revisions. By the time he got to the end, the voluble Mr. Cramer was at a loss for words. He held off the crew and said, ''I have to think about what I am going to say about all this.''
 So what is the polite thing to say? The jig is up? Go to the mattresses? Run for your life? He wrapped up the show by talking about prosaic yields, not robust earnings. 
 ''I think it's O.K. to say that was a relatively dull show. It's not a message of hope, it's a message of defense,'' he said afterward. And then he reached for a metaphor that's going to come in handy.
 ''It's just a bear trying to do a show in this environment,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A somewhat milder Jim Cramer, host of CNBC's ''Mad Money,'' tries to find the right tone in a time when building stock wealth seems like a thing of the past. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Jim Cramer said of a recent show, ''It's a message of defense.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (82%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (74%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (74%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



824 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Russia Is Striving to Modernize Its Military, the U.S. Notes With Interest, Not Alarm

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As they tracked Russian military maneuvers in recent days, the American government's career Kremlin-watchers might have been forgiven for wondering if they were seeing recycled newsreels from the worst of the bad old days.
 A huge exercise, called Stability 2008, spread tens of thousands of troops, thousands of vehicles and scores of combat aircraft across nearly all 11 time zones of Russian territory in the largest war game since the collapse of the Soviet Union. 
 There was no specified enemy, but the Russian forces appeared to be enacting a nationwide effort to quell unrest along Russia's southern border -- and to repulse an American-led attack by NATO forces, according to experts in Moscow and here.
 In a grim finale, commanders launched three intercontinental ballistic missiles, the type that can carry multiple nuclear warheads. It was a clear signal of the drastic endgame the Kremlin might consider should its conventional forces not hold. One of the missiles flew more than 7,100 miles, allowing Russian officials to claim they had set a distance record. 
 If these images of Russian power projection appeared drawn from the dark decades of Dr. Strangelove, the response from Washington was anything but.
 When asked to assess what seemed to be a Russian resurgence, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have provided the same sanguine response, echoed down through the ranks of government analysts who have spent years reading obscure Russian military journals and scrutinizing classified satellite photographs.
 The Russian military fell to third world standards from neglect and budget cuts in the turbulent years when Boris N. Yeltsin was president, they say. The new Kremlin leadership is working to create a force that can actually defend the nation's interests. 
 The military has embarked on a program to buy modern weapons, improve training and health care for troops, trim a bloated officer corps and create the first professional class of sergeant-level, small-unit leaders since World War II. 
 Which is not to say that the United States will stop judging Russian behavior in light of what it considers a clumsy, ill-advised and unnecessary invasion of the former Soviet republic of Georgia. 
 Yet policymakers also say the Kremlin's efforts at military modernization should not prevent cooperation on mutual concerns, including countering terrorism and halting nuclear proliferation. 
 Even a high-profile speech three weeks ago by President Dmitri A. Medvedev, ordering a military modernization program and the largest increases in defense spending since the death of the old Soviet Union, was viewed here as short on substance and designed more for a domestic political agenda.
 Mr. Medvedev declared that by 2020, Russia would construct new types of warships and an unspecified air and space defense system. Military spending, he said, will leap by 26 percent next year, bringing it to 1.3 trillion rubles (about $50 billion), its highest level since the collapse of the Soviet Union -- but still a small fraction of American military spending. 
 Mr. Medvedev pledged that Russia would shore up its nuclear deterrence and upgrade its conventional forces to a state of ''permanent combat-readiness.''
 American experts were unimpressed. ''Russia is prone to make fairly grandiose announcements about its military,'' said a Defense Department official who discussed government analyses on condition of anonymity. ''These programs have long been in the works. They are not new plans. They are not new programs.''
 Even so, veteran analysts of Russian military affairs acknowledge that a military renaissance would allow the Moscow leadership to increase political pressure on former Soviet republics, now independent, as well as former Warsaw Pact allies that embraced NATO after the collapse of communism.
 ''What the Russian leadership has discovered is proof of an old maxim: that a foreign policy without a credible military is no foreign policy,'' said Dale R. Herspring, a scholar on Russian military affairs at Kansas State University.
 Eugene B. Rumer, of the National Defense University here, said events of recent weeks were ''not a sign, really, of the Russian military being reborn, but more of a Russia being able to flex what relatively little muscle it has on the global scale, and to show that it actually matters.''
 One example is how Russia's navy is seeking to display global reach. A flotilla of warships, including the nuclear battle cruiser Peter the Great, is under sail for exercises next month with Venezuela. 
 Russia has also announced more than $1 billion in new arms deals with the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez. 
 ''This Venezuela adventure is basically Russia's payback for what they consider the humiliation of American ships' operating in the Black Sea during the war in Georgia,'' said Mikhail Tsypkin, of the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif. ''This is to annoy the United States.''
 Some of the steps undertaken to wrench the Russian military out of mediocrity resemble changes in the American military over several decades. 
 Russia plans for its ground forces to move to a system designed for the deployment of brigades, rather than bulkier division or corps headquarters -- nearly copying the United States Army's approach.
 The Russian military also plans to offer pay and housing incentives to attract noncommissioned officers -- the valuable class of sergeants -- to make a long-term career of military service. 
 While not as drastic as the move by the post-Vietnam American military to switch from the draft to an all-volunteer force, the plan would shift Russia further from reliance on one-year conscripts, who are not in uniform long enough to master even basic skills. 
 Just last week, the Russian military leadership announced it would further reduce the number of people in uniform, to about 1 million from the current 1.1 million, far below the 4 million-strong military at the end of the cold war.
 Most significant, according to American government officials, is a four-year plan to reduce to 150,000 a Russian officer corps that now numbers 400,000, a shrinking that is certain to produce significant opposition within the senior ranks. 
 The Russian General Staff will be trimmed, and the number of generals is planned to fall to 900 from the current 1,100. But in an acknowledgment that the general officer corps can slow the pace of change throughout the military, most of those reductions will occur through retirement.
 The Kremlin knows that its military bureaucracy is riddled with corruption, Pentagon officials say. 
 Experts here say that audits ordered after Vladimir V. Putin took over from Mr. Yeltsin in 2000 found that 40 percent of the budget for some weapons programs and salaries was lost to theft and waste.
 The new defense minister, Anatoly E. Serdyukov, was a surprise choice, given that he had no military background but was an expert in finance and taxes. As he moved to clean house across the military-industrial complex, the reason for his selection became clear.
 Analysts of Kremlin affairs note that a central risk to Russian military reform might not be foreign armies, but the current economic collapse, which has sent oil prices plummeting, robbing Russia of profits earmarked for upgrading the armed forces.
 An irony is emerging. One central cause of the Soviet Union's collapse was that its centrally planned, calcified economy simply could not support the Kremlin's superpower military ambitions. If oil prices continue to drop, Mr. Medvedev and Mr. Putin maybe faced with the same economic limits on their military plans. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russian soldiers going on patrol in Georgia in August. A reduction in troop strength is planned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); BUDGETS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



825 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Resolved to Keep On Marketing, Even in Tight-Fisted Times

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
 ATTENDEES of a big annual conference for marketers, held here last week, could have been forgiven for believing they had stumbled into a symposium for scholars of American history in the 1930s.
 These are some of the words and phrases heard during the conference, the 98th annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers: ''financial crisis,'' ''scary,'' ''foreclosure,'' ''economic crisis,'' ''difficult times,'' ''the chaotic financial markets,'' ''devastating,'' ''under siege'' and ''unprecedented.''
 There were even references to ''Happy Days Are Here Again,'' which became the unofficial theme song of those who fought to forestall the effects of the Great Depression, and to ''the only thing we have to fear is fear itself,'' the encouraging words of Franklin D. Roosevelt during his first inaugural address, in 1933.
 ''The consumer is sitting at the bottom of a bunker with his head in his hands, wondering if it's safe to come out,'' Jez Frampton, global chief executive at Interbrand, an Omnicom Group agency specializing in corporate and brand identity, said during a general session of the conference. 
 ''It's up to us to stimulate demand in the marketplace again,'' he added. 
 Whether the members of the association -- 400 companies that together spend an estimated $100 billion a year on advertising and other forms of marketing -- are willing to stick to the spending plans they made ''before the globe went mad,'' as Mr. Frampton put it, is a crucial question.
 If marketers cut budgets, that could intensify the recent sharp downturn in consumer spending. Conversely, by maintaining -- or increasing -- spending levels, they just might shorten the length of whatever recession might be coming (if it is not already here).
 ''Look, everyone is going to want to cut, but no one wants to be first to say it in public,'' said one attendee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because his company has not completed its planning for 2009.
 ''That's especially true given that we still have some time before Christmas,'' the attendee said, referring to the importance of the holiday shopping season for marketers and retailers. ''Anyone who says anything now could go down as the Grinch who stole Christmas.''
 The closest any speaker came to tipping his or her hand was Anne Saunders, brand and advertising executive at Bank of America.
 ''We aren't done planning '09 yet,'' Ms. Saunders said, so ''we're not concluding at the moment that we would necessarily cut'' spending.
 If a decision is reached to make cuts, ''we don't expect to see a substantial cut,'' she added, because ''it would be a mistake to say you don't need to continue to tend your brand, even in a challenging market like this.''
 Other speakers made the same point, in more emphatic and colorful language.
 ''It's incredibly important to be risk-takers in the economic climate we're in,'' said Michael Mendenhall, senior vice president and chief marketing officer at Hewlett-Packard, when ''people have a tendency to pull back.''
 ''In economic times like these, you don't hunker down and go in the bunker,'' he added.
 Rebecca Saeger, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Charles Schwab Corporation, quoted Mr. Mendenhall approvingly in her remarks and added: ''Let's all go for growth. Let's see this as an opportunity.''
 Increasing sales and profits has ''never been more important,'' said Ms. Saeger, who was elected during the conference as the chairwoman of the association for 2008-10. ''There has never been a more crystal-clear realization of why you need a strong brand.''
 Joseph V. Tripodi, chief marketing and commercial officer at the Coca-Cola Company -- whose Coca-Cola brand is the strongest in the world, according to a new survey by Interbrand -- evoked imagery from the Great Depression.
 ''Don't go to the ledge,'' Mr. Tripodi said. ''Don't let the urgent overwhelm the important.''
 ''It's very easy now to panic, and we cannot panic,'' he added. ''Invest in your brands now, especially in these dry times. The easiest thing is to shut down, and that's the worst thing.''
 James R. Stengel, who is retiring from his post as global marketing officer at Procter & Gamble, was asked whether consumers seeking to save money might be tempted to switch to private-label products from brand names. That would mean paying less attention to ads for brands -- no matter how much marketers spent.
 That is unlikely, Mr. Stengel replied, if marketers understand that ''in these times, people are looking for the right value.''
 ''If we're there for consumers when they need us,'' he added, ''I'm sure we'll be fine.''
 Procter, the world's largest advertiser, survived ''tough times'' in countries hit hard by recent economic crises, Mr. Stengel said, like Argentina and Russia. He even remarked on how Procter made it through the '30s.
 Two speakers described how the upheaval in the American economy is inspiring advertising campaigns.
 ''Right now, given where America is, people need to go back to the comfort of home,'' said Mark Addicks, senior vice president and chief marketing officer at General Mills. So a new campaign for the company's Pillsbury brand will carry the theme ''Home is calling.''
 A commercial that Mr. Addicks showed, by the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe, began with people from all walks of life clicking their heels together like Dorothy in ''The Wizard of Oz'' and ended with a family coming home to a meal with Pillsbury crescent rolls.
 Claire Bennett, senior vice president for marketing at American Express, said the ''challenging environment'' gave her brand ''a unique opportunity'' because of its ''legacy of trust and confidence.''
 ''We will be talking about that in the coming months,'' she added, and ''our own card members can speak for us.''
 The entreaties of the speakers may have influenced the estimated 1,200 attendees at the conference, based on results of instant polls during two general sessions.
 Asked about immediate plans, 33 percent of respondents said they would maintain the level of their marketing spending, 33 percent said they would reduce spending and 27 percent said they would spend more. (The rest were unsure.)
 And when asked about 2009 compared with 2008, the largest number of respondents, 28 percent, predicted stability, followed by 26 percent who forecast spending increases of more than 10 percent. Nineteen percent predicted decreases of more than 10 percent, 14 percent predicted decreases of less than 10 percent, and 13 percent predicted growth of less than 10 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Addicks of General Mills explained why a new campaign for its Pillsbury brand will carry the theme ''Home is calling.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); BRANDING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); HISTORY (72%); RETAILERS (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CHRISTMAS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (63%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (58%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



826 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: The Netherlands to Provide $13 Billion to the ING Group

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Dutch government said Sunday that it would inject 10 billion euros into the bank ING Group after it became the latest victim of the global financial crisis. 
 The capital injection, in the form of nonvoting preferred shares, works out to about $13.4 billion, giving the government an 8.5 percent stake in the bank. The new financing, ING said, will create ''a strong buffer to navigate the current market and economic environment.'' 
 The announcement came after top bank executives spent the weekend in urgent talks with government and central bank officials concerned about the prospect that ING might collapse when trading opened on Monday. Shares of ING fell more than 27 percent on Friday in Amsterdam after the company said it expected to post a third-quarter loss of 500 million euros as a result of 1.6 billion euros in write-downs. 
 The government's intervention to save ING marks the latest effort by the national and international authorities to calm investors and keep tight credit markets from bringing economic activity to a halt. The United States has announced a $700 billion plan to bail out the United States financial system, while European governments last week announced national relief packages valued at hundreds of billions of euros. 
 ''Our capital position was in line with previously targeted levels and regulatory requirements,'' the chief executive, Michel Tilmant, said in a statement. ''However, market conditions have changed dramatically in recent weeks and have led to an internationally recognized belief that going forward, in this market environment, capital requirements for financial institutions should be higher.'' 
 The bank said structure of the transaction was intended to avoid dilution of existing shareholders. The government will obtain the right to nominate two members to the ING Group supervisory board. The board will review executive pay for senior management ''to align it with new international standards,'' the company said. 
 ING has major insurance and commercial banking operations. With 338 billion euros in savings and current-account deposits at the end of last year, it is also one of the world's largest retail banks. It said it would use the new capital to increase shareholders' equity in its banking unit by 5 billion euros and to strengthen the balance sheet of ING Insurance by 2 billion euros. The other 3 billion euros will be used to pay down the group's debt. 
 Like other European governments and the United States, the Netherlands has also explicitly backed bank loans to restore calm to the credit market. The government said it expected to guarantee loans amounting to 200 billion euros. 
 ING's problems are themselves partly a result of the recent wave of those bailouts. Thomas Nagtegaal, a banking analyst at the Royal Bank of Scotland in Amsterdam, said that until just a few weeks ago, ING had been seen as one of the world's more stable lenders and was able to raise money in the interbank market at very favorable rates. The bank has also been hurt by its exposure to the extremes of the stock market, he said, as ING had 3.5 billion euros of unhedged equity exposure in its equity investment portfolio at the end of June. 
 The news came as board members of Groupe Caisse d'Epargne, one of the largest French mutual banks, voted Sunday at an extraordinary meeting to fire the lender's three top executives after the announcement Friday that unauthorized trading in derivatives had cost the bank 600 million euros. 
 The French media reported that the chairman, Charles Milhaud, was stepping down, as was Nicolas Merindol, the chief executive, and Julien Carmona, the chief financial officer. The company could not be reached for comment late Sunday. 
 Caisse d'Epargne has sought to play down comparisons to the fraud that Jerome Kerviel, a low-level trader, has been accused of carrying out at Societe Generale, at a cost to that bank of 4.9 billion euros. 
 Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, said Sunday that he was shocked by the revelations at Caisse d'Epargne, though he stopped short of calling for the ouster of its top executives. ''When we know who is responsible, we must obviously draw conclusions,'' Mr. Trichet said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a capital injection from the Dutch government into the ING Group, a financial services company, described the nature of the investment incorrectly. The government is buying nonvoting securities that pay an 8.5 percent dividend; it is not buying an 8.5 percent stake in the company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michel Tilmant, chief executive of the ING Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (61%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (60%); ING VERZEKERINGEN NV (51%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (60%); RBS (LSE) (60%); RBS (AMS) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%) NETHERLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



827 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: For Once, Western New York Is the Front Line of State Politics

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
For years, people in western New York have griped about being an afterthought in state politics, the region's clout perpetually in decline along with its jobs, factories and urban neighborhoods. 
 Not anymore. This fall, the region stretching from Buffalo to Syracuse has emerged as the top electoral battleground in New York, after decades in which the suburbs around New York City were the fulcrum of state politics.
 The shift in the political terrain has become clear only in recent months, taking both parties by surprise and spurring Republican and Democratic officials to rapidly retool their strategies, particularly in the pivotal campaigns for the State Senate, where Republicans hold a one-seat majority. 
 The parties have poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into a series of Senate races in western New York that could decide control of the chamber for years. Three of the area's Congressional seats, meanwhile, are among the top targets of the national Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which has spent millions of dollars in the region in hopes of adding to the party's majority in the House.
 Western New York's political volatility is fueled by a mix of factors, some of them long in the making and others unexpected. Financial uncertainty is perhaps the biggest factor in the region, which is already one of the most economically troubled parts of the state and stands to be hurt disproportionately by New York's fiscal crisis, posing difficulties for incumbents of both parties.
 ''The kindling is an electorate in western New York that is profoundly pessimistic,'' said Bruce N. Gyory, a political consultant and former lobbyist who has advised Republicans and Democrats. ''The match is an economy that, while in recession, seems to carry the political impact of a depression.'' 
 Two state senators in the Buffalo area whose seats were long thought to be safe, William T. Stachowski, a Democrat, and Dale M. Volker, a Republican, have shown surprising weakness in some recent polls, raising fears that anti-incumbent sentiment is on the rise. 
 Moreover, as the economy has sagged, Republican voter enrollment has dropped while the ranks of Democrats and unaffiliated voters have grown, making traditional allegiances weaker and the area's politics more unpredictable. Western New York also offers relatively cheap media markets compared with New York City. 
 Those factors, some strategists say, make the region an easy and cost-effective place in which to sway voters. Both parties, as well as outside groups, have mounted significant advertising campaigns in the area.
 ''Upstate New York is a very smart place to play,'' said Erick C. Mullen, a Democratic consultant and veteran of races in the area. ''You can get so much more purchase with your money. It is a ripe place for an upbeat campaign to go.''
 The campaign landscape in western New York also has been shaped this year by unexpected political developments, most of which have benefited Democrats. For example, Senator Mary Lou Rath, a popular Republican who represents the Buffalo suburbs, decided to retire, giving Democrats an opening they would not have had. 
 ''When you have a popular incumbent leave a seat, you expose the underlying dynamic where the G.O.P. is less broadly popular this year,'' said Grant Reeher, a political scientist at Syracuse University.
 Also significant was the announcement by Tom Golisano, a billionaire businessman and philanthropist from Rochester who has significant clout in the area, that he would spend at least $5 million to aid legislative candidates in New York. Much of that help has been directed to Democratic Senate candidates in western New York, in particular Joe Mesi, a former boxer who is vying for Ms. Rath's seat. 
 Mr. Golisano's political committee, Responsible New York, also has been supporting Mr. Stachowski and Kathy Konst, a Democrat who is challenging Mr. Volker. In the Rochester area, Mr. Golisano has endorsed the Democrats who are challenging two Republican incumbents, Senators Joseph E. Robach and James S. Alesi. With Senate Republicans entering the last weeks of the campaign with roughly a two-to-one cash advantage over Democrats statewide, Mr. Golisano's intervention could prove critical.
 Sensing an opportunity in Mr. Stachowski's race, Republican campaign officials have transferred nearly $200,000 into the campaign of his Republican opponent, Dennis A. Delano, while Democrats are scrambling to help the incumbent. 
 Senator Antoine M. Thompson, a Buffalo-area Democrat and co-chairman of the party's campaign committee, said the region's sagging fortunes would ultimately benefit his party.
 ''People are very frustrated with Republicans in general,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I believe this is a climate where people are seeking change.''
 In recognition of the region's growing political importance, both Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader, and Malcolm A. Smith, the minority leader, have made numerous appearances there. 
 Some of races in western New York have long been on both parties' radar screens. But others have taken unexpected turns, such as the race between Mr. Stachowski and Mr. Delano, a celebrated cold-case detective for the Buffalo Police Department. 
 ''I don't think the Democrats expected us to have a competitive race here against one of their incumbents,'' said Senator George D. Maziarz, whose district runs along the shore of Lake Ontario. 
 Senate Republicans also have had to redraw their campaign map. Last year, the party started a Web site attacking 10 incumbent Democratic senators. Nearly all of those senators represented downstate districts. But now only three of them -- Senators Craig M. Johnson of Nassau County and Andrea Stewart-Cousins and Suzi Oppenheimer of Westchester County -- face more than token challenges.
 ''It just goes to show you -- things change quickly,'' said Senator Thomas W. Libous, who is a leader of the Republicans' Senate campaign efforts. ''In January, Eliot Spitzer was governor.'' 
 Western New York could also prove pivotal nationally. Two Republican congressmen in the area, Representatives James T. Walsh and Thomas N. Reynolds, are retiring; a third, Representative Randy Kuhl, whose district stretches from the Rochester suburbs south to the Pennsylvania line, faces a rematch against Eric Massa, a Democrat, who came within two percentage points of beating Mr. Kuhl in 2006. 
 Democrats have spent more than $1 million combined in those three races, hoping to further winnow the Republicans' representation in the New York Congressional delegation, which is made up of 23 Democrats and 6 Republicans.
 ''There is no such thing as a safe Republican in New York,'' said Carrie James, a Democratic Party spokeswoman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The billionaire Tom Golisano said he would spend at least $5 million on legislative races. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON HEUPEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



828 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Rises, And Consensus Is to Let It Grow

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
Like water rushing over a river's banks, the federal government's rapidly mounting expenses are overwhelming the federal budget and increasing an already swollen deficit. 
 The bank bailout, in the latest big outlay, could cost $250 billion in just the next few weeks, and a newly proposed stimulus package would have $150 billion or more flowing from Washington before the next president takes office in January. 
 Adding to the damage is that tax revenues fall as the economy weakens; this is likely just as the government needs hundreds of billions of dollars to repair the financial system. The nation's wars are growing more costly, as fighting spreads in Afghanistan. And a declining economy swells outlays for unemployment insurance, food stamps and other federal aid. 
 But the extra spending, a sore point in normal times, has been widely accepted on both sides of the political aisle as necessary to salvage the banking system and avert another Great Depression. 
 ''Right now would not be the time to balance the budget,'' said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan Washington group that normally pushes the opposite message. 
 Confronted with a hugely expensive economic crisis, Democratic and Republican lawmakers alike have elected to pay the bill mainly by borrowing money rather than cutting spending or raising taxes. But while the borrowing is relatively inexpensive for the government in a weak economy, the cost will become a bigger burden as growth returns and interest rates rise. 
 In addition, outlays for Medicare and Social Security are expected to balloon as the first baby boomers reach full retirement age in the next three years. 
 ''The next president will inherit a fiscal and economic mess of historic proportions,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''It will take years to dig our way out.''
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the deficit in the current fiscal year, which started this month, will reach roughly $700 billion, up more than 50 percent from the previous year. Measured as a percentage of all the nation's economic activity, the deficit, at 5 percent, would rival those of the early 1980s, when a severe recession combined with stepped-up federal spending and Reagan-era tax cuts resulted in huge budget shortfalls.
 Resorting to credit has long been the American solution for dealing with expensive crises -- as long as the solution has wide public support. Fighting World War II certainly had that support. Even now many Americans tolerate running up the deficit to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which cost $11 billion a month combined. And so far there is wide support for an initial outlay of at least $250 billion for a rescue of the financial system, if that will stabilize banks and prevent a calamitous recession. 
 ''There are extreme circumstances when a larger national debt is accepted as the lesser of two evils,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at the Investment Technology Group, a research and trading firm.
 There are also assumptions that help to make America's deficits tolerable, even logical.
 One is that people all over the world are willing, even eager, to lend to the United States, confident that the world's most powerful nation will always repay on time, whatever its current difficulties.
 ''So far the market is showing that it is quite willing to finance our needs,'' said Stephen S. McMillin, deputy director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. 
 Lenders are accepting interest rates of 4 percent or less, often much less, to buy what they consider super-safe American debt in the form of Treasury securities. The 4 percent rate means that the annual cost of borrowing an extra $1 trillion is $40 billion, a modest sum in a nearly $14 trillion economy, helping to explain why the current growing deficit has encountered little political resistance so far.
 But if recent history repeats itself, the deficit is likely to be an issue again when the economy recovers.
 Interest rates typically rise during a recovery, so the low cost of servicing the nation's debt will not last -- unless a recession set off by the banking crisis endures, repeating the Japanese experience in the 1990s and perhaps even stripping the United States and the dollar of their pre-eminent status. 
 The assumption is that will not happen, and as the economy recovers, the private sector will step up its demand for credit, making interest rates rise. 
 Higher rates in turn would increase the cost of financing the deficit, and there would probably be more pressure to reduce it through cuts in spending. That happened in the late 1980s, as Congress and the White House coped with the swollen Reagan deficits. The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, with its attempt to put a ceiling on deficits, came out of this period.
 Another assumption, also based on 60 years of post-World War II experience, is that although the economy is sliding into recession, in a year or two that recession will end and the national income (also known as the gross domestic product) will expand once again. 
 When that happens, the national debt -- the accumulated borrowing to finance all the annual deficits -- will shrink in relation to the income available to pay off the debt.
 The nation's debt as a percentage of all economic activity, while growing alarmingly now, is not at historic highs. The portion held outside the American government, here and abroad, in the form of Treasury securities was $5.8 trillion at the end of last month. 
 That is a relatively modest 40.8 percent of the nation's annual income, far below the 109 percent coming out of World War II or the nearly 50 percent in much of the 1990s. 
 Put another way, if the entire national income were dedicated to debt repayment, the debt would be paid off in less than five months. For most of the years since 1940, paying down the debt would have taken longer, putting a greater strain on income. 
 Still, these are not ordinary times. The banking system is broken, and the national economy, in response, is plunging toward recession in a manner that evokes comparisons with the Great Depression. To soften the blow, the administration and Congress ran up a record $455 billion deficit in the just-ended 2008 fiscal year, and they are en route to a shortfall of $700 billion or more this year. 
 ''I do think we need to be ready for a very significant increase in the budget deficit,'' said Peter Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 Apart from the war spending, outlays for unemployment insurance have risen by one-third and spending on food stamps has increased 13 percent over the last 12 months. Congress has agreed to expand education benefits for veterans of the current wars, and last spring it authorized $168 billion for a stimulus package, most of it in the form of tax rebate checks. Now the Democratic Congressional leadership is pushing for another stimulus of at least that much. 
 All of this is happening as tax revenues are falling, particularly corporate tax receipts, which were down $66 billion, or 18 percent, in the fiscal year that just ended. The decline accelerated in September.
 Many Republicans would probably go along with two elements in the stimulus package proposed by the Democrats -- a tax cut of some sort and extended unemployment benefits. But they resist stepped-up spending on public works projects and a temporary increase in federal aid to the states. 
 Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the House Republican whip, said the stimulus bill should not be used to finance ''a huge public works plan'' or to bail out ''states that spent a lot more money than they should have on Medicaid and other social programs.''
 To pay for the surge in spending -- and the shortfall in taxes -- the federal government increased the national debt by $768 billion over the last year, to the present $5.8 trillion, with $300 billion of that amount going to the Federal Reserve for a variety of rescue initiatives for the financial system. 
 The outlays swell as each day brings fresh reports of a financial system that is costly to repair and a rapidly sinking economy in need of a leg up.
 ''The deficit is a burden in a long-term sense,'' Mr. Barbera, the economist, said, ''but it is small beer compared to the concerns of the moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The next president will inherit a fiscal and economic mess of historic proportions,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. ''It will take years to dig our way out.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, a Republican, said the stimulus bill should not finance ''a huge public works plan'' or bail out ''states that spent a lot more money than they should have.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA GOLDEN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MEDICARE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); RETIREMENT AGE (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (58%); ROY BLUNT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



829 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Energy Company Cancels Planned Webcast on Natural Gas Drilling

BYLINE: By JOHN METCALFE

 BODY:
Shale.TV, an online news program devoted to covering the extraction of natural gas in Texas, had a juicy story about the walloping that the industry has endured amid the economic crisis. 
 Unfortunately, Shale.TV happened to be part of this troubled industry. Last Monday the company that owned it, Chesapeake Energy of Oklahoma City, canceled the show to cut costs.
 The program was an unusual attempt by Chesapeake to create its own news product, and the company had hoped to educate people in Fort Worth about the benefits of drilling a mammoth hunk of gas-rich rock below the city known as the Barnett Shale. 
 The show had accumulated several award-winning local journalists before its debut. 
 The price of natural gas, however, has dropped sharply during the economic downturn, and Chesapeake recently announced it would sell some assets. Its chief executive, Aubrey K. McClendon, sold nearly all of his stock this month to meet a margin call. 
 ''There is no question that everyone was stunned and everyone was disappointed,'' said Olive Talley, a veteran of ABC and NBC who was the executive producer.
 Some had wondered how the show would make natural gas pipes and industrial equipment watchable. 
 ''They had some competent, experienced journalists behind it, but I can't imagine -- other than people directly affected in Fort Worth and nearby areas -- that there would be much of an audience at all,'' said Ed Bark, a former TV critic who now runs a Web site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); WRITERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WEBCASTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (91%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



830 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Little Suspense With Rankings, but There's Still Time

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
The Bowl Championship Series released its first set of rankings Sunday, giving some hard data to quantify a season marked by upsets and dark horses. 
 To no one's surprise, Texas is No. 1 and Alabama is comfortably in the No. 2 spot ahead of Penn State. The only change of significance near the top of the polls this week came with the Crimson Tide losing 13 first-place votes in the USA Today poll of coaches on the heels of its unimpressive victory against Mississippi and Texas' dominant performance against Missouri. 
 In a decade when the B.C.S. has determined the participants in the national championship game, there have been few consistencies. The formula has changed more often than Madonna's hair color, and public acceptance is tepid even in the best times. 
 But one of the B.C.S.'s few bedrocks is that the debut poll is typically less accurate than a boardwalk psychic when it comes to projecting who will play in the title game. 
 All you need to know is that during the debut poll last year, Ohio State checked in at No. 1 and South Florida at No. 2. The Buckeyes went on to lose a home game to Illinois before squirming their way into the title game. And perhaps the best sign of the potential volatility of the next seven weekends is that South Florida finished No. 23 in the overall poll. (Boston College, a trendy midseason upstart, was No. 3 in the first poll last season before falling to No. 14 at the end.) 
 And while the Longhorns have a solid lead for the No. 1 spot -- .9979 to .9487 -- there is little reason for the Longhorns to start two-stepping. Only twice in B.C.S. history has a team gone on to win the national title after earning the top spot in the rankings. 
 ''We have a long way to go and a lot of room to improve,'' Texas Coach Mack Brown said. ''Watching film today on Oklahoma State will get your mind off of the ratings in a hurry and definitely will grab our players' attention as we start to prepare for another great challenge.''
 There is good news for Texas and Alabama. Every season in B.C.S. history, at least one of the teams ranked No. 1 or No. 2 has reached the title game. Here is a quick rundown of the contenders and their title chances. 
 No. 1 Texas
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT No one has played consistently better than the Longhorns this season, and the Big 12 title game does not look as daunting. 
 WHY IT WON'T It is difficult to win four games over top-25 teams, which the Longhorns would have to do. 
 No. 2 Alabama
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT Trips to Tennessee and L.S.U., which looked menacing a month ago, are not so daunting anymore. 
 WHY IT WON'T The Tide has so little depth and is relying on so many freshmen that it may have a hard time holding up in the SEC title game. Big-game experience is also lacking. 
 No. 3 Penn State
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT If it goes undefeated, it is a near lock. 
 WHY IT WON'T Ohio State seems to have emerged from its slumber. 
 No. 4 Oklahoma
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT Its best chance comes with a pair of Texas losses. The Sooners need the Longhorns to falter to reach the league title game. 
 WHY IT WON'T Their case resembles Georgia's conundrum of last season. The Bulldogs did not reach the conference title game, so they were not given a chance to play for the national title. 
 No. 5 Southern California 
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT The Pac-10 is thinner than a Ginsu-sliced tomato. 
 WHY IT WON'T The computers have U.S.C. ranked No. 10, which is worse than both Utah and Boise State. 
 No. 6 Oklahoma State
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT If it beats Texas in Austin on Saturday, it will control its destiny. 
 WHY IT WON'T It has to beat Texas in Austin. That Missouri victory does not look as good after Texas eviscerated the Tigers. 
 No. 7 Georgia 
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT Plenty of opportunity to leap forward with trips to L.S.U. and a game against Florida on a neutral field still to come. 
 WHY IT WON'T The feeling here is that Georgia simply is not that good. It has no impressive wins, which does not portend a strong finish. 
 No. 8 Texas Tech
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT It will be a no-brainer No. 1 if the Red Raiders get through this four-week gantlet -- at Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma State and at Oklahoma. 
 WHY IT WON'T Struggles against Nebraska and Texas A&M point to a wobbly finish. 
 No. 9 Ohio State
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT Because of the slumping economy and endless election noise, America does not have enough to complain about. 
 WHY IT WON'T Still needs to beat Penn State and hope other teams lose. 
 No. 10 Florida
 WHY IT WILL MAKE IT L.S.U. was No. 7 in the second-to-last poll last season, so big jumps for SEC teams are realistic. 
 WHY IT WON'T The Gators looked fallible in a loss to Mississippi and still have the SEC title game to deal with. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Texas, which beat Missouri, 56-31, on Saturday, made its debut at No. 1 in the B.C.S. standings. Coach Mack Brown said his team had ''a long way to go.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS)
 The Longhorns, led by quarterback Colt McCoy, have four games against top-25 teams remaining. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERICH SCHLEGEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: BOWL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES STANDINGS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



831 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Green Policies in California Generated Jobs, Study Finds

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
California's energy-efficiency policies created nearly 1.5 million jobs from 1977 to 2007, while eliminating fewer than 25,000, according to a study to be released Monday.
 The study, conducted by David Roland-Holst, an economist at the Center for Energy, Resources and Economic Sustainability at the University of California, Berkeley, found that while the state's policies lowered employee compensation in the electric power industry by an estimated $1.6 billion over that period, it improved compensation in the state over all by $44.6 billion. 
 Built into that figure were increases of $1.2 billion in the light industrial sector, $11.2 billion in wholesale and retail trade, $7.3 billion in the financial and insurance sectors and $17.8 billion in the service sector. 
 ''Consumers were able to reduce energy spending,'' the study said, adding that ''these savings were diverted to other demand.''
 ''When consumers shift one dollar of demand from electricity to groceries,'' the report said, they create jobs among retailers, wholesalers, food processors and other businesses.
 The study, which examined household spending, comes as state and regional initiatives on climate-change policies have been gathering momentum. At the same time, arguments have sharpened over how much it will cost the economy to cut the emission of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels, which are linked to climate change. 
 Roughly half the country's electric power is generated by burning coal, the fuel that produces among the highest greenhouse-gas emissions of any in widespread use. 
 Some economists focus their studies on the cost of converting the power grid to run on low-carbon technologies, like wind energy, or the cost of developing technologies to separate the carbon dioxide from coal-plant emissions and bury it underground. Others focus on the job creating potential of new energy industries.
 The Berkeley study is different in that it focuses as much on historical data as on modeling the future. California's energy-efficiency policies were adopted in 1978, long before the widespread push for greenhouse-gas reductions, but the data they provide is highly relevant to the current economic debate.
 Professor Roland-Holst said that he based his calculations on residential spending on electricity over the last 30 years, factoring in both the decrease in per-capita demand for electricity -- now 40 percent below the national average -- and the increase in California's electrical rates, which were about 40 percent above the national average in June, the latest month for which data is available. Household spending represents more than 70 percent of the gross state product.
 Historically, Professor Roland-Holst said, the decrease in per-capita demand for electricity outstripped the increase in rates. Much of the economic growth, the study said, was driven by both efficiency standards for large appliances like refrigerators and for residential and commercial buildings. 
 In an interview, Professor Roland-Holst said, ''What I wanted to do to support the forward-looking vision is go back and look at the evidence we have in front of us.''
 In two months, California is set to adopt broad policies to enforce a new cap on greenhouse gas emissions signed into law two years ago. More detailed regulations will then be developed; that process is likely to be contentious, as it divides the overall costs of the new program among competing sectors of the state's economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); HISTORY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (75%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INSURANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



832 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: With Free Bikes, Challenging Car Culture on Campus

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BIDDEFORD, Me. 

 BODY:
When Kylie Galliani started at the University of New England in August, she was given a key to her dorm, a class schedule and something more unusual: a $480 bicycle.
 ''I was like, 'A free bike, no catch?' '' Ms. Galliani, 17, a freshman from Fort Bragg, Calif., asked. ''It's really an ideal way to get around the campus.''
 University administrators and students nationwide are increasingly feeling that way too. 
 The University of New England and Ripon College in Wisconsin are giving free bikes to freshmen who promise to leave their cars at home. Other colleges are setting up free bike sharing or rental programs, and some universities are partnering with bike shops to offer discounts on purchases. 
 The goal, college and university officials said, is to ease critical shortages of parking and to change the car culture that clogs campus roadways and erodes the community feel that comes with walking or biking around campus.
 ''We're seeing an explosion in bike activity,'' said Julian Dautremont-Smith, associate director of the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education, a nonprofit association of colleges and universities. ''It seems like every week we hear about a new bike sharing or bike rental program.''
 While many new bike programs are starting up, some are shutting down because of problems with theft and vandalism. The program at St. Mary's College in Maryland was suspended because bikes were being vandalized. 
 ''Ours was one that was totally based on voluntary taking care of the bike,'' said Chip Jackson, a spokesman for St. Mary's, ''and I guess that was maybe a tad unwise. So the next generation of this idea will have a few more checks and balances.''
 At Ripon, and the University of New England, officials say that giving students a bike of their own might encourage them to be more responsible. Ripon's president, David C. Joyce, a competitive mountain biker, said the free bike idea came in a meeting about how to reduce cars on campus.
 The college committed $50,000 to the program and plans to continue it with next year's freshmen. Some 200 Trek mountain bikes, helmets and locks were bought, and about 180 freshmen signed up for the program. ''We did it as a means of reducing the need for parking,'' Dr. Joyce said, ''but as we looked at it from the standpoint of fitness, health and sustainability, we realized we have the opportunity to create a change.'' 
 The University of New England here in Biddeford had a similar problem -- too many cars, not enough space and a desire to make the campus greener. So it copied the Ripon program, handing out 105 bikes in the first week of school. Because of the program, only 25 percent of freshmen brought cars with them this year, officials said, compared with 75 percent last year.
 ''We felt the campus could devolve to asphalt parking lots, and a lot of people didn't want that to happen,'' said Michael Daley, head of the university's environmental council and a professor of economics.
 The bikes are marked with each student's name.
 ''I don't have to fill it with gas, and it doesn't hurt the environment,'' said Kaitlyn Birwell, 18. ''With a car, you need a parking permit, gas, and it breaks down. I'm a college student and don't have the money for that.''
 Michelle Provencal, 18, said she hopes her bike will help her avoid a dreaded side effect of being a college freshman. ''Maybe instead of gaining the freshman 15 I'll lose it,'' Ms. Provencal said.
 When Mercer University in Macon, Ga., asked for donations of old bikes, it received 60, which are being fixed up and painted orange and black, the university colors. Forty are available for weeklong rentals, and Mercer has organized mass rides to downtown Macon, about three miles away, to promote the program.
 ''A lot of students haven't ridden a bike since middle school or even younger, but when they get back on it their faces light up,'' said Allan J. Rene de Cotret, director of the program. ''So why not leave your car parked where you live or back home with your parents and ride your bike around campus?''
 Emory University has partnered with Fuji Bikes and Bicycle South, a local bike shop, to provide 50 bikes that can be rented at no charge at six spots on campus. Students can also buy Fuji bikes at a discount and receive a free helmet, lock and lights from Emory.
 Students, faculty and staff can go to a rental station, show their Emory ID and check out bikes. The program plans to add 70 more bikes and four checkout points in the next year. In addition, about 150 bikes have been sold through the partnership in the past year, said Jamie Smith, who runs the program, called Bike Emory. 
 ''We like the idea of bolstering the cycling culture here,'' Mr. Smith said, ''and ultimately it supports alternative transportation.''
 Bikes at some campuses were treated as toys rather than transportation. Others were difficult to maintain or were not used.
 ''The kids weren't taking care of the bikes, leaving them wherever instead of parking them in the bike racks,'' said John Wall, a spokesman for Juniata College in Huntington, Pa., which eliminated its two-year-old bike-sharing program this year. ''The other problem was that the bikes weren't the greatest to begin with. They were donated by Wal-Mart, and others were rehabbed. They had also been out in the weather. It just didn't work out.''
 The elements are a concern at other universities as well. More than 150 students at the University at Buffalo signed up for a city bike-sharing program that has drop-off points on campus, but it suspends service from November to April.
 ''It's hard to maintain all the bikes during winter, and usage drops dramatically,'' said Jim Simon, an associate environmental educator at Buffalo.
 Here at the University of New England, officials wonder what will happen when snow starts falling, but they are looking toward bike-sharing programs in cities like Copenhagen and Montreal as proof that they can work in the cold.
 St. Xavier University in Chicago this month is unveiling the first computer-driven bike sharing system on a college campus. 
 Students can wave their ID card over a docking port. The port is attached to a rubber tube, which can be used as a lock and opened by entering an access code. Students must enter the bike's condition before it can be unlocked. The system is used in Europe, but with credit cards.
 The first 15 minutes are free, and users pay 60 cents for each additional 15 minutes, or $2.40 per hour. All 925 resident students automatically become members through their ID cards. The system was intended to be environmentally friendly, with solar panels powering the ports. 
 A tracking system similar to G.P.S. will keep tabs on the bikes. 
 ''You can't throw it in Lake Michigan,'' said Paul Matthews, the university's vice president for facilities management, ''because we'll know if you throw it in Lake Michigan.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bicycles to be given to freshmen at the University of New England in Biddeford, Me.
 The University of New England bikes are personalized. Free or subsidized bike programs at colleges have had mixed success. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); EXTREME SPORTS (72%); CYCLING (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (67%); VANDALISM (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



833 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Wheeling and Dealing And Finding Books To Translate Into Dutch

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The global financial crisis might have been raging last week outside the exhibition halls of the Frankfurt Book Fair, the international publishing industry's annual jamboree, but that didn't stop frantic dealmakers from trying to persuade one another that they needed to part with their money -- and fast.
 Mizzi van der Pluijm, managing director of Contact Publishers of the Netherlands, was sipping green tea between meetings on Friday when a literary scout from London rushed breathlessly to her side to urge her to read a collection of American short stories and to do it quickly because the book had already been bought by publishers in Germany and Italy.
 A 20-year veteran of the fair who publishes many North American authors, including Malcolm Gladwell, Jeffrey Eugenides and Colson Whitehead, Ms. van der Pluijm, 46, promised to read the stories that night. 
 After the scout moved on, Ms. van der Pluijm (pronounced VAN der ploom) said it was a personal rule never to buy anything in Frankfurt. But she admitted that it was difficult sometimes not to get caught up in the frenzy. ''It is so much more easy to buy something here than not to buy,'' she said. Too many of the sales in Frankfurt, she said, were dictated by ''too much excitement, not enough sleep and a big hangover.''
 Publishers who attend this fair hope to create enough buzz in the hermetic bubble of the convention halls to sell their books in multiple countries for high sums. The biggest sellers are often English-language publishers, particularly Americans. But Frankfurt has a flip side, too, in which foreign publishers -- like Ms. van der Pluijm -- maneuver to sign up American authors for translation and publication overseas without losing their heads.
 Some publishers and agents last week suggested that the fair was quieter than in recent years -- indeed, attendance was down slightly -- and that people were more cautious because of the turbulent economic climate. But others boasted of multiple deals signed and insisted, somewhat too emphatically at times, that the book industry was recession-proof. As finances tightened, the theory went, people would stay at home more, buy fewer big-ticket items and turn to books for comfort. 
 And while there were a few signs that the financial crisis had reined in some of the excess that often characterizes the fair, many of the most bacchanalian traditions carried on. 
 Bertelsmann, the German media conglomerate that owns Random House, the world's largest publisher of consumer books, threw its annual blowout party on Thursday night. An executive said that the guest list had been trimmed by about 25 percent, but the chocolate fountains and wine flowed, and there was a separate room with a sushi bar. 
 Several hundred people packed a nightclub on Wednesday for a party to honor the author Paolo Coelho for having sold 100 million copies of his books worldwide. Mr. Coelho joined Gilberto Gil, the singer and former cultural minister of Brazil, onstage for a rendition of ''No Woman No Cry'' in Portuguese as a crowd of graying men in suits swayed on the dance floor.
 Ms. van der Pluijm of Contact, the original publisher of ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' attended many of the same parties she does every year. There were sit-down dinners and cocktail hours with people she has known for decades. The night before the fair's official opening, she joined about 30 publishers from around the world celebrating Simon Schama, the British historian whose latest book, ''The American Future,'' was just released in Britain. 
 During the day Ms. van der Pluijm strode briskly from meeting to meeting, struggling to span the distance between exhibition halls in time to keep appointments scheduled in half-hour increments.
 She arrived at the fair with three books whose rights she hoped to sell to foreign publishers, but she spent a large portion of her time listening to pitches about English-language books. About 40 percent of Contact's list are translations, Ms. van der Pluijm said, and about two-thirds of those are from books written in English.
 Even in a meeting with Alexander Fest, the publisher of Rowohlt Verlag, a prestigious German house, the talk was predominantly about American books. She told Mr. Fest that she had recently bought ''Portrait of an Addict as a Young Man,'' by Bill Clegg, an agent at William Morris in New York, and Mr. Fest urged her to read ''How Fiction Works'' by James Wood, a literary critic for The New Yorker.
 Ms. van der Pluijm knew she wanted to become a publisher when she was 16 and read a biography of Nancy Cunard, the cruise-line heiress who first published Samuel Beckett. ''To be paid for reading all interesting stuff, and meeting very interesting people,'' Ms. van der Pluijm said, ''that is a wonderful job.'' 
 She started her career at a tiny press in the Netherlands while studying Dutch literature. At 26 she went to work as an assistant at Contact, which celebrated its 75th anniversary this year. She has stayed with the company ever since, working her way up to publisher.
 When she loves a book, she heaps praise on the author. But she can also be blunt when turning down pitches. In a meeting with Sarah Chalfant of the Wylie Agency, whose judgment Ms. van der Pluijm said she respected, she rejected Ms. Chalfant's impassioned appeal for the second novel of a promising writer.
 ''It has to be a book where I can tell people, 'I don't care what you think, but this is great,' '' said the husky-voiced Ms. van de Pluijm, who had read the manuscript. ''That is what I should be able to do, and I can't do that.''
 She limited discussions of her Dutch books to a handful of publishers she knew were interested in foreign literature. When Gary Fisketjon, an editor at Alfred A. Knopf, dropped by the Contact booth on Thursday afternoon, she buttonholed him with a brochure for ''Godverdomse Dagen op een Godverdomse Bol,'' or ''The Goddamn Day on the Goddamn Globe.'' 
 ''I really think this is you,'' she said. Ms. van der Pluijm's favorite part of the fair came as she swapped tips with old friends in more informal after-hours settings. 
 At an annual Thursday-night dinner hosted by Michael Kruger, the publisher of Carl Hanser Verlag, a high-end literary German publisher, the French publisher Olivier Nora took out his BlackBerry and offered to forward Ms. van der Pluijm an e-mail message with a reader's report on an American novel he was considering. A Brazilian publisher described a favorite title and several people took notes.
 It was back to the more formal pitches the next day when Ms. van der Pluijm met with Michael Carlisle, a New York agent. ''Do you want to make money?'' Mr. Carlisle asked. ''Let's make some money right now.'' 
 He briefly described ''Hush, Hush,'' a young-adult novel that he assured her was ''better than 'Twilight,' '' referring to the blockbuster vampire novel by Stephenie Meyer.
 Ms. van der Pluijm asked to see a manuscript. He didn't have one, and she grew anxious about missing out. 
 But she was relaxed enough to hit another cocktail party, one thrown by Maria Campbell, Ms. van der Pluijm's literary scout in New York. Then she was off to meet friends for two more drinks, with plans to read three manuscripts that night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mizzi van der Pluijm of Contact Publishers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS GLOGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RECESSION (73%)

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



834 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Some U.S. Regions in Recession, Bush Aide Says

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush's top economic adviser said Sunday that some regions of the United States were struggling with high jobless rates and seemed to be in recession. 
 ''We are seeing what anyone would characterize as a recession in some parts of the country,'' the adviser, Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN.
 Unemployment in some areas is ''much higher'' than the 6.1 percent national level, he said.
 Mr. Lazear says the administration ''has taken the right steps'' to thaw out credit markets and get loans flowing to businesses and consumers.
 Although it will take a few months for the full impact of the Treasury Department's $700 billion credit market rescue plan to be felt, improvements are already visible, Mr. Lazear said.
 ''Banks are now willing to lend to one another. That's a huge plus for the economy because the big problem has been that banks have been unwilling to trust one another,'' he said. 
 Benchmark credit spreads have shrunk over the last week as new liquidity measures by global central banks and governments have started to take effect. Those spreads have been at unusually high levels, a reflection of risk aversion among banks.
 Mr. Lazear said the federal budget deficit would grow because of the cost of the bailout, but he declined to say how high.
 ''The deficit is important,'' he said, but ''the main focus is turning the economy around.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



835 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Server Maker Cuts Revenue Forecast

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Server Maker Cuts Revenue Forecast 
 The first glimpse at how the economic turmoil is affecting business hardware purchases may have popped up over at Rackable Systems.
 Last week, the company whipped out a cleaver and took a swipe at its fiscal 2008 revenue forecast. Rackable, based in Fremont, Calif., now expects full-year revenue to be $275 million to $300 million. That is down from an earlier forecast of $353 million to $374 million. 
 ''The swift decline of the economy caused a demonstrable slowdown in corporate purchasing as we entered September,'' Mark J. Barrenechea, president and chief executive at Rackable, said in a statement.
 Few people outside of the corporate hardware realm may have heard of Rackable. But the company provides an interesting window into the most aggressive part of the server market, where customers are buying thousands and thousands of systems to power their latest and greatest Web services.
 Rackable counts Microsoft, Amazon.com, Yahoo and Facebook as its largest customers. Through the first half of fiscal 2008, 64 percent of Rackable's business came from these four customers, according to a regulatory filing. Web services firms offering ''cloud computing'' through data centers tend to pick up Rackable's gear because it is inexpensive and consumes less energy than mainstream systems. 
 It would prove pretty shocking if these types of companies had pulled back on their server purchases. They are in the middle of a long-term war to build out data centers as quickly as possible. It is more likely that Rackable's government, biotech and large-business customers trimmed their spending. And, in fact, Mr. Barrenechea points to delays with ''corporate'' spending, as opposed to service providers.
 Rackable also trimmed its projections for gross profit margin to 16 to 18 percent, down from 18 to 21 percent. Historically, Rackable's margins have come under the most pressure when competitors, namely Dell, have cut prices to capture market share.
 So there is every chance that Rackable's new forecast reflects the competitive landscape as much as it does customer interest in servers. ASHLEE VANCE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIAL TREZZINI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK SERVERS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%)

COMPANY: SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: SGI (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



836 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DEAUVILLE JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: For Women Who Lead, A Forum of Their Own

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: DEAUVILLE, France 

 BODY:
Tory Frame, an Irish-born partner in the London office of the consulting group Bain & Company, used to always try to keep gender out of business. ''I always thought I had to act like the male partners to get to be a partner,'' she said. ''I didn't have any female role models, and I had a very specific view of leadership.''
 But in 2005 she attended the first Women's Forum for the Economy and Society along with about 500 other women, and it changed her, she said this weekend. 
 ''I came here and I heard loads of women speaking in their own way -- clear leaders, but without conforming to that male stereotype, and it encouraged me to be myself, to use empathy and humor,'' said Ms. Frame, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard. ''It had a very big impact on me. I saw that there are ways to be very powerful, but also warm.'' 
 Barbara Ngouyombo is a young entrepreneur, a systems engineer from Reunion, the French island in the Indian Ocean. She has started a company in London to provide computerized health information for travelers requiring daily care. ''Usually I'm not so comfortable just among women,'' she said. ''But this is different. There's so much diversity here. We're all from different backgrounds and places.''
 The annual meeting of the Women's Forum, which ended here on Saturday and included 1,200 women, is modeled on the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the famous global talkathon. The Women's Forum (www.womens-forum.com) offered three days of lectures, panels, brainstorming sessions and guided conversations on the issues of the moment: the global economic meltdown, the crisis of leadership, the American presidential election, foreign policy, environmental problems, China, Russia, India. Well-known politicians and speakers, both women and men, came from all over the world, with an emphasis on Europe, and included Americans like Jeffrey E. Garten, a Yale economist, and Clyde V. Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute.
 There were also workshops on specific challenges faced by women, to discuss how women could be most effective in science, politics, education, corporate life and the media. There were panels on how, as Bettina Gotzenberger, the manager of a Spanish legal services company, said, ''to think bigger, and how to be less modest in asking for money and investment.''
 And there were sessions that featured prominent women. They included Ingrid Betancourt, the former Colombian presidential candidate and freed hostage; the designer Diane von Furstenberg; the sailor Ellen MacArthur; the exiled Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasrin; the venture capitalist Molly F. Ashby; and French cabinet ministers like Fadela Amara, who is in charge of coordinating plans for the racially mixed and poor Parisian suburbs, and Anne-Marie Idrac, responsible for foreign trade.
 As so often is the case in France, earnest talk of global poverty, child abuse and the dangers of the economic crisis for philanthropy was mixed with lavish meals, Champagne and espresso provided by corporate sponsors in the resort setting of Deauville, on the Normandy beaches.
 There were the usual mixed messages, with participants given expensive anti-aging cosmetics and offers of makeovers and photographic portraits from corporations seeking to attract successful potential customers. There was Cartier, the French jewelry company, which sponsors a global competition for young female entrepreneurs like Ms. Ngouyombo. Five winners receive $20,000 each and a year of business coaching from Cartier, management consultants McKinsey & Company, and Insead, the business school with campuses in France and Singapore.
 The Women's Forum was the brainchild of Aude Zieseniss de Thuin, 58, a French businesswoman who once applied to go to the Davos economic forum, without success. ''They didn't even deign to respond,'' she said.
 Angry, she decided that Davos, with many fewer women than men, should have a more female-friendly analogue, and she created this forum three years ago as a private company. The idea, she said in an interview, was not to create a feminist institution, but ''to give a voice to women, half of the population,'' and help provide role models.
 ''I've had a lot of satisfaction in watching rising talents,'' she said, adding that her only regret was not having had the idea a decade earlier. The current economic shock ''will probably be terrible for many women around the world,'' especially in poor countries, she said. 
 ''I think it's the beginning of a new world, a worse one, a more difficult one, especially for women. But I'm also optimistic, because it's a time for women to take responsibility.''
 Ms. de Thuin usually charges 5,000 euros (about $6,700) for each participant, not including transportation or accommodation. (''I'm not a hypocrite; I'm an entrepreneur,'' she said.) But women from small companies, poorer countries or charitable organizations pay half that. This year, the attendees came from 88 countries, with a special emphasis on India. 
 Ms. de Thuin is a difficult boss, by all accounts, and the forum has yet to attract Davos's star power. But the concept of the forum seems to transcend its difficulties. As one board member said privately, ''The point is to keep the idea alive.''
 Ms. Ashby, an American, left J.P. Morgan in 2000 to start Solera Capital, a private-equity firm. ''This conference is a fascinating mix of business and not-for-profits in a way that's very powerful,'' she said, adding, ''There's a European flair, a candor and forthrightness, a self-awareness that's very attractive.''
 Women do not attend just for the panels, she said. ''We go to be together. We go for the immersion in this incredibly diverse community of women, and we all care. We are all bound by the caring.''
 Julia Harrison started Blueprint Partners, a public relations and consulting company in Brussels. ''Gender is still a big hang-up, especially in business,'' she said. ''Playing to women, it's like admitting a weakness. But when you get here it doesn't seem to matter. There's this huge myth about women that they're nasty to one another. But in fact everyone here is rooting for each other; everyone wants everyone else to succeed.''
 Valerie Bernard, a French businesswoman who lives in Saint-Denis, a poor suburb to the north of Paris, maintains a blog, chroniquesmabanlieue.com. Since the conference began, she wrote, ''it's been an emotional electric shock.'' 
 She described it as ''a kind of coaching seminar driven by a single aim, to boost your personal reserve of confidence and tolerance, within a collective dynamic: women in the service of progress.''
 The experience made her nearly speechless, she wrote. ''The intensity of the exchanges, the meetings, the level of the interventions -- how can I possibly tell you everything?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ingrid Betancourt, left, the freed hostage, and Christine Ockrent, of French television, in Deauville, France, on Thursday.
 Aude Zieseniss de Thuin, 58, a French businesswoman, is the founder of the Women's Forum for the Economy and Society. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MYCHeLE DANIAU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP: The Deauville forum drew 1,200 people from 88 nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); POLITICS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ENGINEERING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); ELECTIONS (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); HOSTAGE TAKING (62%)

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) BASSE-NORMANDIE, FRANCE (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (59%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



837 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Here the People Rule

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
According to the silver-penned Peggy Noonan, writing in The Wall Street Journal over the weekend, ''In the end the Palin candidacy is a symptom and expression of a new vulgarization in American politics.''
 Leave aside Noonan's negative judgment on Sarah Palin's candidacy, a judgment I don't share. Are we really seeing ''a new vulgarization in American politics''? As opposed to the good old non-vulgar days? 
 Politics in a democracy are always ''vulgar'' -- since democracy is rule by the ''vulgus,'' the common people, the crowd. Many conservatives have never been entirely comfortable with this rather important characteristic of democracy. Conservatives' hearts have always beaten a little faster when they read Horace's famous line: ''Odi profanum vulgus et arceo.'' ''I hate the ignorant crowd and I keep them at a distance.'' 
 But is the ignorant crowd really our problem today? Are populism and anti-intellectualism rampant in the land? Does the common man too thoroughly dominate our national life? I don't think so.
 Last week, the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press released its latest national survey, taken from Oct. 9 to 12. Americans are dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country and of course concerned about the economy. But, as Pew summarized, ''there is little indication that the nation's financial crisis has triggered public panic or despair.'' 
 In fact, ''There is a broad public consensus regarding the causes of the current problems with financial institutions and markets: 79 percent say people taking on too much debt has contributed a lot to the crisis, while 72 percent say the same about banks making risky loans.''
 This seems sensible. Indeed, as Sept. 11 did not result in a much-feared (by intellectuals) wave of popular Islamophobia or xenophobia, so the market crash has resulted in remarkably little popular hysteria or scapegoating. 
 And considering what has happened, the vulgar public on Main Street has been surprisingly forgiving of those well-educated types on Wall Street -- the ones who devised and marketed the sophisticated financial instruments that have brought the financial system to the brink of collapse. 
 Most of the recent mistakes of American public policy, and most of the contemporary delusions of American public life, haven't come from an ignorant and excitable public. They've been produced by highly educated and sophisticated elites.
 Needless to say, the public's not always right, and public opinion's not always responsible. But as publics go, the American public has a pretty good track record. 
 In the 1930s, the American people didn't fall -- unlike so many of their supposed intellectual betters -- for either fascism or Communism. Since World War II, the American people have resisted the temptations of isolationism and protectionism, and have turned their backs on a history of bigotry.
 Now, the Pew poll I cited earlier also showed Barack Obama holding a 50 percent to 40 percent lead over John McCain in the race for the White House. You might think this data point poses a challenge to my encomium to the good sense of the American people.
 It does. But it's hard to blame the public for preferring Obama at this stage -- given the understandable desire to kick the Republicans out of the White House, and given the failure of the McCain campaign to make its case effectively. And some number of the public may change their minds in the final two weeks of the campaign, and may decide McCain-Palin offers a better kind of change -- perhaps enough to give McCain-Palin a victory. 
 The media elites really hate that idea. Not just because so many of them prefer Obama. But because they like telling us what's going to happen. They're always annoyed when the people cross them up. Pundits spent all spring telling Hillary Clinton to give up in her contest against Obama -- and the public kept on ignoring them and keeping her hopes alive.
 Why do elites like to proclaim premature closure -- not just in elections, but also in wars and in social struggles? Because it makes them the imperial arbiters, or at least the perspicacious announcers, of what history is going to bring. This puts the elite prognosticators ahead of the curve, ahead of the simple-minded people who might entertain the delusion that they still have a choice.
 But as Gerald Ford said after assuming the presidency on Aug. 9, 1974, ''Here the people rule.''
 One of those people is Joe Wurzelbacher, a k a Joe the Plumber. He's the latest ordinary American to do a star turn in our vulgar democratic circus. He seems like a sensible man to me.
 And to Peggy Noonan, who wrote that Joe ''in an extended cable interview Thursday made a better case for the Republican ticket than the Republican ticket has made.'' At least McCain and Palin have had the good sense to embrace him. I join them in taking my stand with Joe the Plumber -- in defiance of Horace the Poet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



838 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Trading Variance in Election Predictions Raises Questions

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
Who will win the presidential election next month? 
 To the amazement of economists and online bettors, the answer has varied a great deal among betting Web sites.
 Markets are not supposed to work that way, even online prediction markets, where bettors trade on the chances of a candidate's winning an election in the same way that they might bet on pork bellies to go up in value.
 In the last few weeks, Intrade.com, which is based in Dublin, had consistently given John McCain as much as a 10 percentage point edge in his chances to be elected president compared with other large online overseas betting sites. These include the British-based Betfair.com, as well as the Iowa Electronic Markets, a research project at the University of Iowa that allows bets of $500 on election results. 
 If this were merely an academic exercise in market behavior, few people besides economists would care. But in this information-saturated election, the candidates' numbers on Intrade have become another important way to analyze the state of the race. Since 2006, the influential site realclearpolitics.com has included real-time updates of the latest Intrade prices next to the polling results it gathers.
 On Thursday, the chief executive of Intrade, John Delaney, responded to allegations that there had been market manipulation -- in essence, that somehow Mr. McCain was being favored by artificial means. 
 Mr. Delaney conceded there had been erratic behavior -- including spikes in the direction of Mr. McCain and away from Barack Obama ''by up to 10 points.'' And he said ''trading that caused the unusual price movements and discrepancies was principally due to a single 'institutional' member on Intrade.''
 But, after interviewing members of the institution involved and tracking its trades, Mr. Delaney wrote in an e-mail message on Saturday: ''I do not believe based on our investigations and over seven years' experience in such matters that the trading on Intrade was designed or motivated to artificially inflate McCain's chance of winning.''
 Without identifying the firm involved, Mr. Delaney said that there might be unique reasons that the trader would have used Intrade, even if cheaper prices could be found elsewhere. 
 The reasons include ''the possibility that the member was unable or unwilling to make the same transactions'' on the Iowa markets or at Betfair. In addition, he wrote, the trader might have been using the site to ''hedge its risk within a short period,'' as may be ''the case with a legally licensed and regulated bookmaker using Intrade to hedge risk from their own customers.''
 That explanation still seemed peculiar to some observers. 
 ''The surprising thing is not that there was some manipulation, it is that it was sustained,'' said Forrest Nelson, who teaches at the University of Iowa and has followed Intrade as well. 
 These developments, he said, go against his instinct that a large market like Intrade with millions of dollars in bets -- as opposed to the total $250,000 wagered at the Iowa markets -- would be less likely to be an outlier in its odds for candidates.
 On Sunday, Mr. Obama was in the 80s across the three sites.
 David Rothschild, a Ph.D. candidate in business and public policy at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, has tracked these markets. He said of the institutional trader on Intrade: ''If their job was to hedge bets, they were not doing a very good job at gaining these positions at a minimal cost. They are overpaying for these positions. I don't know if they are doing it to manipulate the market, but they are not doing a very good job at minimizing their costs.'' 
 The political explanation -- that someone was trying to game the system to give Mr. McCain some momentum -- has the advantage of at least appearing rational to economists. Increasing a candidate's perceived standing would be something of value to offset the irrational decision to waste money buying a share in Mr. McCain for more than the absolute minimum price. 
 For example, on Sept. 14, John King of CNN on ''This Week in Politics,'' said: ''Let's take a look at what the smart money is saying. This is the latest from Intrade.com. It's the Irish bookmaking site where you could put your money where your mouth is. As you can see, Barack Obama's big lead -- look at that green line -- has vanished and he's now just slightly behind John McCain. You can see McCain, he's the purple line shooting up just there. That's the word from the bettors. They think McCain has ascended at the moment.''
 On that day, however, the Iowa markets had Mr. Obama at 54 percent and Mr. McCain at 46 percent. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: GIVING MCCAIN AN EDGE: In recent weeks, Intrade, an online prediction market, gave John McCain an edge of up to 10 percentage points in his chances of being elected president compared with other betting sites. (Sources: Intrade Prediction Markets
 Iowa Electronic Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PORK (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



839 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: On 'SNL' It's the Real Sarah Palin, Looking Like a Real Entertainer

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska made her point by going on ''Saturday Night Live.'' She proved she has a sense of humor at a time when the country is still debating whether to take her seriously as a potential commander in chief.
 And that was what was so remarkable -- and jarring -- about her engaging, relaxed performance on ''SNL,'' which included being ogled by Alec Baldwin (''You are way hotter in person!'') and bopping and swaying to a satirical rap song. 
 Ms. Palin's delightful performance on Saturday stood out from the efforts of other politicians who have made fun of themselves on the NBC late-night comedy show. 
 Usually elected officials like John McCain, Hillary Rodham Clinton or Barack Obama go on the show to disarm voters by showing their lighter side. Ms. Palin has already shown her lighter side to the public. The one thing nobody has accused her of is being too stiff and sober-minded. 
 And yet on the very weekend that former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell endorsed Mr. Obama on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' and cited Ms. Palin's selection as a reason, and Senator McCain told Chris Wallace on ''Fox News Sunday'' that she was a ''direct counterpoint to the liberal feminist agenda for America,'' Ms. Palin joked about her nickname, ''Caribou Barbie.''
 As Republicans argue over whether Ms. Palin is a drag on the ticket or the life of the party, Ms. Palin on Saturday presented herself as a palate cleanser, or halftime show, for Democrats and Republicans alike. 
 Her appearance was seen by more than 14 million people, the largest audience for ''SNL'' since 1994. It was definitely entertaining, but it was hard at times to tell whether it was a bold political tactic or a show-business audition. 
 Mostly, it was another sign of the brinkmanship of the McCain campaign: just two weeks before the election, the Republicans are not pulling out all the stops to frame Ms. Palin as a knowledgeable, thoughtful vice president; they are showcasing her as a star. 
 Viewers saw that quality when she spoke at the Republican convention and they saw it again during her sassy, sprightly debate with Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. What they have not yet seen is a display of steady readiness that could counterbalance the lingering memories of her disastrous interview with Katie Couric.
 It could be that the McCain campaign has concluded that what Ms. Palin really faces is a Tina Fey problem: Ms. Fey's impersonation of Ms. Palin has proved so dead-on -- and popular -- that it has further undermined Ms. Palin's plausibility. So instead of arming their vice-presidential candidate with new economic policy talking points, McCain advisers tried to disarm Ms. Fey. 
 The ''SNL'' skits gave Ms. Palin the last word in every joke. In the middle of a skit where Ms. Fey impersonated the governor holding a press conference, Ms. Palin appeared and took her place at the lectern while Ms. Fey made a point of meekly slinking away. 
 The comic tempo was just right; it was the strategy that looked a bit odd. Ms. Palin may have charmed Democrats who viewed her as a narrow-minded zealot; her performance did little to assuage the concerns that have troubled many Republican and independent voters. 
 It didn't help that Mr. Powell chose to endorse Mr. Obama the very next day. ''I was also concerned at the selection of Governor Palin,'' Mr. Powell told Tom Brokaw. ''She's a very distinguished woman, and she's to be admired, but at the same time, now that we have had a chance to watch her for some seven weeks, I don't believe she's ready to be president of the United States, which is the job of the vice president. And so that raised some question in my mind as to the judgment that Senator McCain made.''
 Ronald Reagan began his political career as a movie star. It's not unimaginable that Ms. Palin, who once worked as a television sports reporter, could someday follow Reagan's path in reverse and cash in her political renown to become a show-business celebrity. One thing everybody can agree on is that Gov. Sarah Palin is qualified -- to someday host her own television show. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Sarah Palin, far right, taking her turn on ''Weekend Update'' on ''Saturday Night Live,'' with Seth Meyers and Amy Poehler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA EDELSON/REUTERS) (pg.C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); POLITICS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); RAP MUSIC (55%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); TINA FEY (58%); ALEC BALDWIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (54%); KATIE COURIC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



840 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: DONATION RECORD AS COLIN POWELL ENDORSES OBAMA

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Michael Powell contributed reporting from Fayetteville, N.C., and Michael Cooper from Columbus, Ohio.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama on Sunday captured a forceful endorsement from former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and announced he had shattered campaign finance records in September, gaining an immense financial edge that will allow him to overwhelm Senator John McCain's efforts in every corner of the country.
 The description of Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee for president, as a ''transformational figure'' by Mr. Powell, a Republican who directed the first Iraq war, could lift Mr. Obama among some independents, moderates and Republicans and neutralize concerns about his experience. And his fund-raising -- $150 million last month, more than double what he raised in August -- could help him sell that message by allowing him to spend at full throttle, even investing in new battlegrounds like West Virginia without having to choose among states.
 Mr. Obama intends to devote most of his time over the next 15 days in states that President Bush won, aides said, going to Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Mexico, Ohio and Virginia. Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, has ruled out trying to expand his electoral map but is waging an aggressive effort defending those states, the largest of which still could fall either way. 
 But the events Sunday, taken together, dealt another dispiriting setback to Republicans, particularly since Mr. Powell is a longtime friend of Mr. McCain's and even donated to his campaign. ''Powell is a glass of warm milk and a cookie for those who can't sleep worrying about the lack of experience of a President Obama,'' said Alex Castellanos, a Republican strategist.
 Mr. Powell, who made his announcement on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, called Mr. Obama ''a transformational figure.''
 ''He is a new generation coming into the world, onto the world stage,'' he continued.
 The words were quickly seized upon by Mr. Obama.
 ''A great soldier, a great statesman and a great American has endorsed our campaign to change America,'' Mr. Obama said on Sunday in North Carolina, which has not backed a Democrat for president since 1976. ''He knows, as we do, that this is a moment where we all need to come together as one nation -- young and old, rich and poor, black and white, Republican and Democrat.''
 With just two weeks to go in the race, Mr. McCain finds himself in a daunting position, as polls in critical swing states give him fewer avenues to victory on Nov. 4. But having been written off before, he has embraced his underdog status, firing away at Mr. Obama on economic issues and assailing his robust fund-raising while he reminding voters that Mr. Obama had broken a pledge to accept public financing in the general election.
 Because Mr. Obama has raised more than $600 million, Mr. McCain said, the ''dam has broken'' for future presidential campaigns. Mr. McCain, who accepted public financing and received an $84 million allotment from the treasury, suggested he may well be the last presidential candidate to run under the current rules established at the end of the Watergate era.
 ''It's laying a predicate for the future that can be very dangerous,'' Mr. McCain said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''History shows us where unlimited amounts of money are in political campaigns, it leads to scandal.''
 Reacting to the Powell endorsement, Mr. McCain did not criticize the former secretary of state, saying, ''I respect and continue to respect and admire Secretary Powell.'' He did not mention the endorsement at a pair of rallies in Ohio.
 ''We're going to win Ohio, and we're going to show the pundits again that they were wrong,'' Mr. McCain said to cheers in Toledo. He focused on his economic argument, warning that Mr. Obama would try to ''redistribute the wealth'' through his tax proposals.
 Mr. Powell, a retired Army general who was a chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President George Bush and President Bill Clinton, seemed intent on making the most out of his endorsement by saving it until the end of the race and by not informing either candidate before disclosing it on ''Meet the Press.'' 
 Mr. Powell said he was dismayed by the tenor of the campaign, declared that Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, was not fit to be vice president, expressed displeasure with the direction of the Republican Party and called Mr. McCain scattered on his approach to the economy. ''Every day there was a different approach,'' he said.
 ''As gifted as he is,'' Mr. Powell said of Mr. McCain, a friend for 25 years, ''he is essentially going to execute the Republican agenda, the orthodoxy of the Republican agenda, with a new face and a maverick approach to it, and he'd be quite good at it. But I think we need a generational change.''
 While several Republicans brushed aside the significance of the endorsement, saying they believed it had been in the works for weeks, others said they were more concerned by Mr. Obama's ability to dwarf Mr. McCain in spending during the final weeks of the campaign. As strategists for Mr. Obama eyed intensifying their efforts in Georgia, North Dakota and West Virginia, Republican advisers were trimming their efforts back to states won by Mr. Bush in 2004 and hoping for the best elsewhere.
 The endorsement and the new fund-raising figures came on a weekend filled with signs of fresh momentum for Mr. Obama. He broke his record for crowd sizes, drawing an estimated 100,000 people to an outdoor rally in St. Louis. But the campaigns appear to be locked in a bitter duel in Missouri and a few other states that supported Republicans in recent presidential contests.
 ''The numbers we're seeing at rallies are good portents,'' said Mr. Obama's chief strategist, David Axelrod, who like other aides reflected a sweaty and nervous optimism. ''These become good barometers of enthusiasm.''
 Using Mr. Obama as a magnet, the large rallies are specifically intended to stir interest in early voting and to serve as practice exercises for local campaign organizers to get out the vote on Election Day. By focusing on several Republican-leaning states, like Missouri, North Carolina and Virginia, advisers said they were striving to pave several distinct routes to an Electoral College victory instead of relying on a set number of states as Democrats have in the past.
 While Mr. Powell said he had no plans to campaign for Mr. Obama, he became the highest-profile Republican to add his support to the Democratic ticket. He dismissed the notion that he was supporting Mr. Obama because they are both black. He contributed $2,300 to Mr. McCain last year and said he had studied both candidates for nearly two years, but in recent weeks Mr. Obama had impressed him.
 ''He displayed a steadiness, an intellectual curiosity, a depth of knowledge and an approach to looking at problems,'' Mr. Powell said, adding: ''Not jumping in and changing every day, but showing intellectual vigor. I think that he has a definitive way of doing business that would serve us well.''
 Advisers to Mr. Obama said they had no immediate plans of using Mr. Powell in campaign advertisements, but that could change over the next two weeks. Mr. Obama, who has used his large campaign treasury to buy 30-minute spots on the television networks in the final week of the race, could highlight the endorsement at that point, but aides also said they expected Mr. Powell's words to receive plenty of attention on their own.
 Mr. Powell seemed to offer a twinge of regret, saying, ''It isn't easy for me to disappoint Senator McCain in the way that I have this morning.'' But he said he disagreed with the McCain campaign's decision to raise doubts about Mr. Obama by linking him to William Ayers, an antigovernment radical from the 1960s.
 ''Mr. McCain says that he's a washed-out terrorist,'' Mr. Powell said. ''Well, then, why do we keep talking about him?''
 Still, the Republican ticket intensified its new line of attack, likening Mr. Obama's policies to socialism. Ms. Palin, campaigning on Sunday in New Mexico, did not mention the Powell endorsement, instead deriding Mr. Obama for a comment he made last week about wanting to ''spread the wealth.'' She declared, ''Now is no time to experiment with socialism.'' 
 Mr. Obama, invoking Mr. Powell, offered a retort as he met with voters in North Carolina. 
 ''Socialism?'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's kind of hard to figure out how Warren Buffet endorsed me and Colin Powell endorsed me, and I'm practicing socialism. John McCain thinks that giving these Americans a break is socialism. Well, I call it opportunity.''
 Mr. McCain, who mentioned Mr. Powell on Sunday only when asked about him during a television interview, noted that he had collected endorsements from four former secretaries of state and more than 200 retired Army general and admirals. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, greeted supporters at a campaign rally Sunday in Fayetteville, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Supporters of the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, at a rally at Otterbein College in Westerville, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICK PERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



841 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8:30 P.M. (Lifetime) RITA ROCKS Nicole Sullivan (above right, with Kelly Gould) plays Rita, a frazzled wife and mother who handles her identity crisis by forming a garage band with her letter carrier, Patty (Tisha Campbell-Martin), and her unemployed neighbor, Owen (Ian Gomez). Richard Ruccolo plays Jay, the husband with whom Rita would like to reignite a fire. The new series, which will be shown at 8:30 Monday to Friday this week and on Tuesday nights thereafter, is Lifetime's first original comedy in a decade.
 7 A.M. (CBS) TODAY Elton John performs and Liza Minnelli is a guest. 
 11 A.M. (NBC) THE MARTHA STEWART SHOW The chefs Nobu Matsuhisa, Santiago Rodriguez and Thomas Buckley prepare some of the signature dishes and cocktails from their new book, ''Nobu Miami: The Party Cookbook.'' And Ms. Stewart demonstrates how to make party mustaches for Halloween.
 8 P.M. (CW) GOSSIP GIRL Vanessa (Jessica Szohr) blackmails Blair (Leighton Meester), so Blair gets even by sending Chuck (Ed Westwick) to seduce Vanessa.
 8 P.M. (NBC) CHUCK Catfight! Sarah (Yvonne Strahovski) and Chuck (Zachary Levi, right) run into her high school nemesis, Heather Chandler (the guest star Nicole Richie), and Sarah's insecurities surface. Meanwhile, Heather's nerdy husband (Ben Savage) turns out to be important to the latest mission.
 8 P.M. (Ovation) CLASSICAL STAR The top five musicians learn about the importance of collaboration when they're challenged to perform with a professional quartet in this British competition for classical musicians between 12 and 19. In the series's finale, at 9, the remaining three perform on a concert stage with a 40-piece orchestra for the prize of a recording contract 
 8 P.M. (TruTV) SKI PATROL The beach patrol is so ... last season. This new series trails the men and women of the ski-patrol units at Blue Mountain in Pennsylvania and Crystal Mountain in Washington as they rescue injured skiers, find missing children and tell drunken snowboarders to take their parties elsewhere.
 8:30 P.M. (CBS) HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER After making a spontaneous decision to get married, Stella (Sarah Chalke) and Ted (Josh Radnor) find the happiest day of their lives destroyed when their exes show up.
 9 P.M. (13, 49) LBJ ''American Experience'' chronicles the presidency of Lyndon Baines Johnson, left, a poor boy from Texas who ascended to the pinnacle of power upon the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, only to see his presidency undermined by the Vietnam War.
 9 P.M. (Fox) PRISON BREAK Michael (Wentworth Miller) reaches into his past to access the final card, which is in the possession of Pad Man (Leon Russom). 
 9 P.M. (NBC) HEROES Hiro (Masi Oka) sizes up an offer to join Pinehearst Industries, and Peter (Milo Ventimiglia) finds his life changed when he meets with its founder. 
 9:30 P.M. (CBS) WORST WEEK Sam (Kyle Bornheimer) unwittingly invites too many colleagues to his wedding and decides to tell a risky lie to keep them from coming.
 10 P.M. (A&E) JOSE CANSECO: LAST SHOT Mr. Canseco, the former baseball player who blew the whistle on the sport's steroid scandal, decides to get clean after 24 years of using this illegal substance. 
 10 P.M. (Travel) AT THE TABLE WITH ANTHONY BOURDAIN Mr. Bourdain takes time off from his travels to host a dinner party at the Lower East Side restaurant WD-50. The guests (and conversing heads) include Ted Allen, the nightlife mogul Amy Sacco and the food writer Bill Buford.
 10 P.M. (VH1) SCREAM QUEENS Ten aspiring actresses will produce their best bloodcurdling shrieks in this new competition series, with the winner to be cast in a horror movie from Lionsgate Films.
 11 P.M. (Fuse) REDEMPTION SONG Eleven bad-attitude, hard-partying female singers will compete to be set on the road to success with a recording deal. They are selected in this casting special for a to begin on Oct. 29. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SKIING (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SNOWBOARDING (68%); HALLOWEEN (68%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); SPORTS INJURIES (60%); ASSASSINATION (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); BEACHES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (78%); ELTON JOHN (54%); MARTHA STEWART (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



842 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Too Many Banks 'Too Big to Fail'

BYLINE: By ROB COX

 BODY:
Too Many Banks
 'Too Big to Fail'
 The financial crisis is forcing regulators to encourage the creation of bigger, more interconnected institutions. In the short term, this may serve a useful purpose by allowing healthier, well-capitalized banks like Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase to shore up weaker ones.
 But it also presents a serious threat to the financial system by fostering financial behemoths that are, to use Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's euphemism, ''systemically critical.'' Policy makers need to start thinking about how to downsize institutions that are becoming ''too big to fail'' before the situation comes to that. 
 The basic problem is, in the argot of Wall Street, excessive concentration of risk -- or, in layman's terms, the placing of too many eggs in too few baskets. For the moment, it's easy to see why regulators have encouraged acquisitions like JPMorgan's of Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns, and Bank of America's of Countrywide. These are a common tactic used in times of distress to spread capital across the banking system to fill in the weak spots. 
 Yet it's creating some real monsters. Each of these three banks may be close to bursting through the regulators' 10 percent cap on any one bank's share of total United States deposits. Watchdogs might well show temporary forbearance, and later force banks to sell off deposits. Of course, none of the three are in a precarious position, but the failure of one would almost certainly wipe out the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's reserves, which were stretched thin after the failure of IndyMac this year. 
 Because they have tendrils in many other, riskier businesses -- among them investment banking, private equity and servicing hedge funds through prime brokerages -- these mega-institutions pose risks to the financial system that could be beyond regulators' ability to contain.
 Indeed, Lehman Brothers' failure showed that even smaller firms can be so interlinked through capital markets -- particularly their more opaque corners like credit-default swaps -- as to approach systemically critical status.
 The worry is that because governments deem the biggest banks too important to fail, they could develop risk-taking cultures unchecked by the full discipline of a free market. This is something akin to what happened at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- and it could conceivably happen again. 
 It's also one reason some investors have called for Citigroup, a sprawling global financial conglomerate that was until recently the largest American bank by assets, to be broken up. 
 Even if regulators are preoccupied with sorting out the current mess, they shouldn't forget to address big concentrations of risk once the financial system looks more stable.
 As Mr. Bernanke stated recently, the broad outlines of reform would include more robust regulation to make sure banks do not take advantage of their too-big-to-fail status. The financial infrastructure also needs strengthening. A clearinghouse for credit-default swaps, for example, would make that market less complex and more transparent. Finally, Mr. Bernanke wants a clear mechanism to handle the failure of nonbank financial institutions like Lehman. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act provides a blueprint for handling the collapse of banks. But the bankruptcy process is not suited to an orderly winding down of a securities firm with global operations.
 All of Mr. Bernanke's ideas make sense. But the most effective way to minimize the chance that institutions are too big to fail would be, well, to make them less big -- and more to the point, less interconnected.
 Regulatory carrots and sticks would help. One approach would be to further increase the cost of deposit insurance for banks that engage in practices deemed risky. Another would be to raise capital requirements in such a way as to force riskier businesses -- possibly even entire divisions like fixed income, currencies and commodities trading -- into separate, ring-fenced subsidiaries that are highly capitalized, or perhaps even make it practical for the banks to hive them off altogether as hedge funds.
 These, too, could fail. But with damage confined to a smaller entity with less aggressive borrowing and no recourse to investors' deposits, the financial system would have less difficulty absorbing the shock.
 ROB COX 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: To save the system, regulators encouraged Bank of America to absorb Countrywide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



843 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Criticism of Bloomberg Over Nonprofits' Support

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Several of New York City's top political figures on Sunday denounced Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration in unusually harsh terms for asking nonprofit groups to support legislation that would allow Mr. Bloomberg to seek a third term in office. 
 Many of the organizations contacted by the administration rely on Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire, for tens of thousands of dollars a year in private donations and millions in city contracts, making it difficult to turn down the request, these leaders said. 
 ''It is an abuse of power, and it must stop,'' said the city's top financial watchdog, the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., who may run for mayor next year. 
 Representative Anthony D. Weiner, another likely candidate for mayor, said that ''if you rely on the mayor or the administration to fund your organization, saying no when the mayor calls is not an option.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's tactic, he said, ''walks right up to the line of coercion, and it's very corrosive.''
 The New York Times reported on Saturday that the mayor and his top deputies had pressed social service, arts and neighborhood groups that receive donations from Mr. Bloomberg to express support for his third-term bid by testifying during public hearings and by personally appealing to undecided members of the City Council. 
 The Council will vote as early as this week on a bill that would amend the city's term limits law, allowing Mr. Bloomberg and dozens of elected officials to serve 12 years in office, rather than the current eight. New Yorkers backed the eight-year limit in two citywide referendums in the 1990s, but Mr. Bloomberg is seeking to rewrite the law through legislation, not a public vote, prompting intense opposition. 
 During public hearings in the Council last week, leaders from five groups that rely on Mr. Bloomberg's donations -- the Doe Fund, the Harlem Children's Zone, the Public Art Fund, the Alliance of Resident Theaters and the St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation -- testified on behalf of the bill, praising the mayor for his steady leadership.
 But none of the leaders disclosed that their groups received money from Mr. Bloomberg. (For example, Harlem Children's Zone, which provides services for children and families, has accepted more than $500,000 from Mr. Bloomberg since he was elected, and receives millions in city funds.) 
 Jason Post, a spokesman for the mayor, said, ''We are building support for our bill, like we do for any other bill the administration introduces, but we are doing it appropriately.''
 Senior officials in the Bloomberg administration contend that the worldwide financial crisis -- with its potentially devastating impact on New York City's economy -- warrants changing the term limits law so voters can re-elect a mayor with proven leadership and business skills. 
 But the groups whose support the mayor is seeking have not been offered a quid pro quo or been threatened, these aides said. A person familiar with the process said that the administration ''was trying to navigate these tricky relationships as appropriately as possible.'' 
 The bill needs 26 votes to pass. So far, 14 members support it, 19 oppose it and 18 have taken no position, according to a tally by The Times. 
 On Sunday, the mayor's aides organized a press conference in which nearly a dozen union leaders endorsed the legislation to extend term limits. Fifteen minutes before the event began, the union leaders met inside City Hall with Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor for operations, to discuss what they would say, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 When they emerged to speak to reporters, the labor officials sounded strikingly similar themes, at times using the same words. They said that changing term limits would give New York voters more choice at the ballot box, that the city's economy faced dire threats, and that their support for changing term limits was not an endorsement of Mr. Bloomberg. 
 ''This is not an endorsement of any one individual candidate but is an endorsement of an idea -- to broaden the field so the people may have a choice facing these very difficult economic times,'' said Gary La Barbera, president of Teamsters Local 282.
 Mr. Bloomberg's critics argue that changing term limits will not expand choice because it will all but guarantee his re-election, given his willingness, in two previous campaigns, to spend $80 million to win the office.
 Gene Russianoff, a senior lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group, said that asking groups who receive city money to support the term limits bill ''looks like an administration desperately abusing its power to stay in office. It just does not pass the smell test.''
 Betsy Gotbaum, New York City's public advocate, called the tactic ''wrong.'' She added, ''You have the right to give all the money you want, but because you give support, you shouldn't have to get support.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about criticism of the Bloomberg administration's move to enlist the support of nonprofit groups for legislation that would allow Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to seek a third term in office misstated, in some editions, the job title of one critic, Gene Russianoff of the New York Public Interest Research Group. He is a senior lawyer for the group, not its executive director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); CITIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FAMILY (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); REFERENDUMS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



844 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Endorsement Puts Spotlight On a Legacy

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's endorsement of Senator Barack Obama on Sunday represented his own transformative moment in a lifelong journey through war and politics. 
 It was not only an embrace of a presidential candidate from the other party, but also an effort to reshape a legacy that he himself considers tainted by his service under President Bush.
 The endorsement, which came after months of conversations between Mr. Powell and Mr. Obama on a wide range of foreign and domestic policy issues, made clear Mr. Powell's dismay at the Republican Party. He said he felt that the party had become too conservative under Mr. Bush, and that Senator John McCain's campaign was not good for the country or its reputation around the world. 
 In that sense, his remarks further stirred the brewing debate about the nature of the post-Bush Republican Party. 
 ''I have some concerns about the direction that the party has taken in recent years,'' Mr. Powell told Tom Brokaw on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC as he made his endorsement of Mr. Obama. ''It has moved more to the right than I would like to see it.'' In recent weeks, Mr. Powell added, ''the approach of the Republican Party and Mr. McCain has become narrower and narrower.'' 
 It will be up to the next president, Mr. Powell said, ''to fix the reputation that we've left with the rest of the world.''
 People in both parties debated the impact of Mr. Powell's endorsement, but on a Sunday morning in Washington the conclusion was that the action revealed less about Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain than about Mr. Powell, who 13 years ago was himself thinking of trying to become president. 
 In saying he would vote for Mr. Obama over Mr. McCain, Mr. Powell aligned himself squarely against Mr. Bush, who has been counting on a Republican victory next month to see through his strategy of avoiding a rigid timetable for withdrawals in Iraq -- the issue, more than any other, on which the president's legacy will rest.
 Mr. Powell's role in selling the invasion, despite his frequent clashes with other members of Mr. Bush's team about how to proceed, has also come to dominate his own place in history. In siding with Mr. Obama, who from the start was an opponent of Iraq, he seemed to be making a clear break with the more hawkish elements of the Republican Party and signaling an effort to reshape how he is judged on the war.
 One major factor in Mr. Powell's decision appeared to be Mr. Obama's careful wooing of the former secretary of state. In recent months the two have had one face-to-face meeting and some half-dozen telephone conversations, all initiated by Mr. Obama. 
 A friend of Mr. Powell's said Mr. Obama sought the advice of Mr. Powell before Mr. Obama's trip in July to Europe and the Middle East, and has also had long discussions with him on Iraq, Iran and North Korea as well as education and health care policy. The two last spoke some two weeks ago about the worldwide economic crisis, the friend said.
 In contrast, Mr. McCain met with Mr. Powell, a friend of two decades, in June, and has not spoken to him since, the friend said. 
 Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Powell has long represented to millions of people around the world the possibilities of the American dream. The son of immigrants from Jamaica who was born in Harlem and reared in the South Bronx, Mr. Powell earned a degree from the City University of New York and then embarked on a rapid rise through the military, perhaps the most integrated institution in American life.
 He became a military assistant to Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Weinberger in 1983, national security adviser under President Ronald Reagan in 1986 and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under the first President Bush during the 1991 Gulf War. 
 By 1995 he was flirting with the idea of running for president, and a friend said he briefly considered leaving the Republican Party to run as an independent. But his wife, Alma, said she would worry about his safety. Mr. Powell finally announced he would not run in 1996 because it was ''a calling that I do not yet hear.''
 Mr. Powell had a tumultuous tenure as President Bush's first-term secretary of state, when he was frequently undercut by Vice President Dick Cheney and Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, in the period before the Iraq war. Although Mr. Powell had major misgivings about the war and what he considered the inadequate number of troops, he not only agreed to the invasion but also made the administration's case for war in a presentation to the United Nations Security Council in February 2003. 
 Much of what he said is now known to be based on false information provided by the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Powell has been widely criticized for the appearance, including by Mr. Obama, a fact that Mr. Brokaw brought up on Sunday. 
 Mr. Brokaw read aloud a passage from Bob Woodward's most recent book, ''The War Within,'' that quoted former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, a Republican, as saying that Mr. Powell was ''the one guy who could have perhaps prevented'' the war from happening.
 Mr. Powell, who friends say remains angry about his time in the Bush administration, briskly responded that ''it was not a correct assessment by anybody that my statements or my leaving the administration would have stopped it.''
 The fissures within the Bush administration and the fractious Republican foreign policy establishment have in the meantime played out in the 2008 presidential campaign. In many ways, Mr. Powell's endorsement reflected the rift between the so-called pragmatists, many of whom have come to view the Iraq war or its execution as a mistake, and the neoconservatives, a competing camp whose thinking played a pivotal role in building the case for war. 
 Mr. Powell, who is of the pragmatist camp and has been critical of the Bush administration's conduct of the war, was said by friends in recent months to be disturbed by some of the neoconservatives who have surrounded Mr. McCain as foreign policy advisers in his presidential campaign. 
 The McCain campaign's top foreign policy aide is Randy Scheunemann, who was a foreign policy adviser to former Senators Trent Lott and Bob Dole and who has longtime ties to neoconservatives. In 2002, Mr. Scheunemann was a founder of the hawkish Committee for the Liberation of Iraq and was an enthusiastic supporter of Ahmad Chalabi, the Iraqi exile and Pentagon favorite, who was viewed with suspicion and distaste at the State Department during Mr. Powell's tenure.
 Although Mr. Powell had some warm words for Mr. McCain on Sunday -- he said that he admired him and that he would make a good president -- friends say that Mr. Powell has felt cut out by Mr. McCain's campaign foreign policy circle and concerned that Mr. McCain speaks too off the cuff about national security and has not taken the time to do the deeper homework required of a presidential candidate.
 In addition, a friend said that when Mr. Powell met with Mr. McCain at Mr. McCain's Arlington, Va., apartment in June, Mr. McCain spoke almost exclusively to him about the war in Iraq and the increase in troop strength, or surge, that Mr. McCain had strongly supported. Mr. Obama, who met with Mr. Powell at Mr. Powell's Alexandria, Va., office, discussed a broader range of issues and actively solicited Mr. Powell's expertise, the friend said.
 Mr. Powell's endorsement was such a powerful break from his past that Mr. Brokaw asked if he anticipated a role in an Obama administration, perhaps as an ambassador at large to Africa or in some role in Middle East peace negotiations. 
 Mr. Powell, in the practiced language of an old Washington hand, replied,''I served 40 years in government, and I'm not looking forward to a position or an assignment. Of course, I have always said if a president asks you to do something, you have to consider it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Colin Powell on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
 Colin Powell, on ''Meet the Press,'' said it would be up to the next president ''to fix the reputation that we've left with the rest of the world.'' Mr. Powell's Obama endorsement was seen in part as a way to reshape his own legacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/''MEET THE PRESS,'' VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



845 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2230 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, October 20, 2008

 BODY:
International
NEW DOUBT CLOUDS PACT
With Iraq on Security
The United Iraqi Alliance, which represents several leading Shiite political parties, said it could not endorse a pact between the United States and Iraq and wanted amendments. The group's decision comes despite concessions from the Americans. It also puts Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki in a difficult position before long-delayed parliamentary elections -- which could become more difficult with a security agreement that allows foreign troops to stay on Iraqi soil. PAGE A5
POLITICAL UNEASE IN THAILAND
When Thailand's army chief told the country's new prime minister on national television that he must resign, the prime minister responded that he was too busy to step down. That exchange raised fears of a military coup, even as the country faced a simultaneous crisis, the threat of a border war with Cambodia. PAGE A8 
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE
In the 1980s and 1990s, Zamir N. Kabulov was a K.G.B. agent in Kabul, Afghanistan, during and after the Soviet occupation. This background gives Mr. Kabulov, who is back in Afghanistan as Moscow's ambassador, special insight about the American enterprise in Afghanistan -- and adds weight to his admonitions. ''They've already repeated all of our mistakes,'' he said of the United States' strategy there. PAGE A11
MEETING ON ZIMBABWE IMPASSE
Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, and the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai remain at an impasse over power sharing in a jointly run government. The two will head to Swaziland on Monday with other southern African leaders who are seeking to resolve the deadlock, which follows Mr. Mugabe's unilateral claim on almost all of the most powerful ministries in the government. PAGE A12
CONTROVERSY OVER POPE PIUS XII
Tensions heightened between the Vatican and Israel after a Vatican official said that Pope Benedict XVI had halted the beatification of Pius XII, the pope during World War II, for fear of repercussions from Jewish groups. Pius has been criticized as not doing enough to speak out against deportations during the Holocaust. An Italian Jewish leader said that beatifying Pius would ''open up a wound that will be difficult to heal.'' PAGE A12
4,800 BOOKS AND 10 LEGS
The ''Biblioburro,'' Luis Soriano's whimsical take on the bookmobile, has become an institution in Colombia. Each weekend he travels with his two donkeys, Alfa and Beto, and some of his 4,800 books, in the sweltering Colombian hinterlands with an eclectic cargo of books that he lets people borrow in villages along the way, converting them into bibliophiles. PAGE A5
NATIONAL
SHOWDOWN IS EXPECTED
In Ethics Trial of Senator
Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska is to return to the stand in his ethics trial on Monday morning for what is expected to be a dramatic climax: He will be confronted with a taped telephone conversation that prosecutors say belies his testimony that he knew nothing about $250,000 in gifts and services from a once-close friend, Bill Allen, to renovate his house in Alaska. PAGE A14
A TWO-WHEEL APPROACH
In an effort to ease critical shortages of parking and to change the car culture that clogs campus roadways, a number of colleges are beginning free bike-sharing or bike-rental programs. And some are going even further: The University of New England and Ripon College in Wisconsin are giving bicycles to freshmen who promise to leave their cars at home. (A real deal for students who don't own a car.) PAGE A18
RENDERING PUBLIC FINANCING MOOT
Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign has now raised more than $600 million, almost equaling what all the candidates from both parties collected in private donations in 2004. Campaign finance watchdog groups say that Mr. Obama's haul in September -- a record-shattering $150 million -- bolsters their arguments for the need to revamp the presidential public financing system to restore its relevancy. But Democrats are not so sure. PAGE A21
KIDNAPPED BOY FOUND SAFE
A 6-year-old boy kidnapped from his home apparently because of a drug debt owed by his grandfather was found walking along a street a few miles away, the police said. Capt. Vincent Cannito of the Las Vegas Police Department said the boy, Cole Puffinburger, was ''in extremely good condition.'' The boy had been missing since early Wednesday. PAGE A
OBITUARIES
ARDESHIR MOHASSESS, 70
An Iranian artist who had long lived in the United States, he pushed the art of the cartoon to almost Surrealist satire of his native land in work both popular and profound -- pulsating with slain and mutilated shahs, mullahs and ordinary citizens; sardonic captions; and stylistic references to ancient art forms. PAGE A29
DAVE MCKENNA, 78
A jazz pianist, he began his career as a big band sideman but became best known for his distinctive solo playing, with a powerful left hand that made a bass player seem unnecessary. PAGE A29
BUSINESS
A SIGN OF SECURITY
That Isn't So Secure
Investors in a company typically rest easier when its executives own big stakes in it, the theory being that managers will have the shareholders' best interests at heart. But as has become increasingly apparent, sometimes executives appear to own shares in a company but have actually pledged them as collateral for a loan. And a sharp drop in the stock's value might force the executive to dump those shares, adding fuel to the economic fire. PAGE B1
TURNING TO A NEW NEWS SOURCE
Some newspapers are seeking to sever ties with The Associated Press, the news cooperative formed more than a century and a half ago. Savings is one reason cited, but there is criticism of service, too. Kathleen Carroll, the executive editor of The A.P., said the protests have come from a small number of papers and stem from ''some element of misunderstanding about what A.P. is trying to do'' and frustration over the papers' finances. PAGE B1
THE EDUCATION OF MICROSOFT
Since Google and Yahoo announced an advertising partnership in June, the biggest force lobbying against the deal has been Microsoft, itself once a pinata of Washington regulators. It shows just how much Microsoft has learned about operating in that town since its regulatory fights during the late 1990s, and how much Google has yet to learn. PAGE B4
RESOLVING TO STIMULATE DEMAND
Words like ''crisis,'' ''scary,'' ''chaotic'' and ''devastating'' came up last week at the annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers, a group of 400 companies that together spend an estimated $100 billion a year on advertising and other forms of marketing. But there were also calls for standing firm. ''We cannot panic,'' said a Coca-Cola executive. ''Invest in your brands now, especially in these dry times.'' PAGE B9
A SLOWDOWN FOR GADGETS
In a mixed holiday sales forecast, an electronics industry trade group is projecting that consumer spending on such gadgets will grow 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, half the growth rate in the same quarter a year earlier. But the industry said the percentage of consumers intending to buy those products remained relatively high; for instance, it found that 25 percent of consumers surveyed still express an interest in buying video games. PAGE B8
UNLIKELY VOICE FOR OFFICE WORKERS
The secret behind Ivanka Trump's sudden interest in brown-bagging to save money on lunch; and the problems TBS and CBS ran into by simply trying to get a baseball game and a football game on the air. Media Talk. PAGE B7
Manic Man of Stocks B1
NEW YORK
FOR A BELEAGUEREDREGION,
Newfound Political Clout
Western New Yorkers have long griped about being an afterthought in state politics, the region's clout perpetually in decline. But a mix of demographic and political factors have made the area the top electoral battleground in the state, with both parties pouring hundreds of thousands of dollars into a series of State Senate races, and the national Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spending millions of dollars in hopes of adding to the party's majority in the House. PAGE A25
BLOOMBERG ASSAILED ON NONPROFITS
Several of New York City's top political figures denounced Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration for asking nonprofit groups -- many of which rely on Mr. Bloomberg for hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in private donations and millions in city contracts -- to support legislation that would allow Mr. Bloomberg to seek a third term in office. ''It is an abuse of power, and it must stop,'' said the city's comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., who may be a mayoral candidate next year. PAGE A27
BROADWAY'S NEWEST HIT
The new booths in Duffy Square for the discount theater ticket vendor TKTS have an allure beyond that of the cheap Broadway seats offered in commerce: 27 wide red glass steps that face southward, and sunward, allowing people a place to stop, sit and drink the city in -- without charge. ''The whole thing is like seeing Vegas on TV, but being there,'' said Charles Hunter, 49, who was visiting from Maine. PAGE A28
Metropolitan Diary A26
SPORTS
B.C.S. RANKINGS ARE OUT;
Let the Second-Guessing Begin
Fans happy or sad over the first set of rankings released by the Bowl Championship Series (Texas No. 1; Alabama No. 2) should perhaps keep this in mind: In the debut poll last year, Ohio State checked in at No. 1 and South Florida at No. 2. The Buckeyes did manage to squirm their way into (and then out of) the title game. South Florida ended up at No. 23. PAGE D6
POUNDING HOME A POINT
In the honored tradition of boxing ''retirements,'' Bernard Hopkins stepped to the microphone after dominating Antonio Tarver in June 2006 and said, ''I'm done.'' About a week later, HBO executives threw him a retirement party. Flash forward more than two years: Hopkins, 43, put on another dominating performance on Saturday night, pounding Kelly Pavlik, 17 years his junior, in a unanimous decision victory. The message this time: Who's next? PAGE D8
Arts
A FINANCIAL DOWNTURN SQUEEZES THE ART WORLD
Museums around the country are bracing for the effects of an economic crisis that could change everything from the size and kinds of exhibitions they present to the acquisitions they can afford and the merchandise they should offer in their shops. The financial-market meltdown has diminished the endowment funds that cover museums' day-to-day operating expenses. Lehman Brothers, for years a crucial sponsor for museums, is no more. PAGE C1
THE MAN BEHIND THOSE HIT WORDS
These lyrics sound so familiar, but who is that guy on stage singing them? That's John Hiatt, who wrote hits for notables like Bonnie Raitt, Eric Clapton and B. B. King, but who has never seemed to get his dues as a performer. This year has offered listeners a fresh opportunity to give Mr. Hiatt the performer a chance to balance the ledger a bit against Mr. Hiatt the writer. His latest album, ''Same Old Man'' (New West), which was released in early summer and is populated mostly by love songs, drew some of his best reviews in years. PAGE C2
ART SPACE ON GOVERNORS ISLAND
In the latest effort to transform Governors Island, in New York Harbor, into a destination that is an integral part of city life, the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council has been selected to run an artists' studio and exhibition space that will include a year-round artist residency and weekend events. The arts programming is expected to begin next spring in 14,000 square feet of space on the ground floor of a building on the island's north shore. PAGE C3
A VISIT TO A BAY AREA DEMIMONDE
Beautifully shot and awkwardly acted, ''The Princess of Nebraska'' follows a young Chinese woman who calls herself Sasha through an intense few days in San Francisco. To anyone who asks, Sasha, played by Ling Li, says she wants ''to see the city,'' and Wayne Wang's camera takes in its neighborhoods with unshowy affection. But there is a lot more going on than tourism, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C3
A CAREER RENAISSANCE AT 82
Roughly an hour after performing a tango that would earn her another week on ''Dancing With the Stars,'' 82-year-old Cloris Leachman, took a moment to look ahead to where her career, still blossoming , might go once her time on the ABC hit dance competition runs its course. That is, after she joins Quentin Tarantino on the set of his new film and serves as grand marshal of the Rose Parade. PAGE C1
Sarah Palin the Entertainer C1
Editorial
COLLATERAL DAMAGE
As the world's richest nations spend trillions to rescue their own financial systems from the maelstrom caused by years of excess, they must also be prepared to provide billions to poorer countries that did not cause this crisis but are nevertheless its victims. PAGE A30
Op-Ed
WILLIAM KRISTOL
Are we really seeing a vulgarization in our politics? As opposed to the good old nonvulgar days? PAGE A31
PAUL KRUGMAN
John McCain's strategy, in this final stretch, is based on the belief that Republicans can still pursue plutocratic policies while claiming to be the party of regular guys. PAGE A31
WHAT BRADLEY EFFECT?
The Bradley effect is named for Tom Bradley, the African-American mayor of Los Angeles, who lost the 1982 race for governor of California even though exit polls indicated he would win. White voters, the theory goes, tell pollsters they will vote for black candidates and then, in the end, cast their votes for white candidates. But the theory, according to Blair Levin, who worked on Bradley's campaign, is wrong. He explains why in an Op-Ed article. PAGE A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DEPORTATION (70%); COUPS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); HOLOCAUST (66%); GENOCIDE (66%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); TED STEVENS (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (56%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); HOLY SEE (90%); SWAZILAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



846 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: 'Spreading the Wealth' as Both Accusation and Prescription

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: TOLEDO, Ohio 

 BODY:
In any other year, it would seem routine. Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee for president, is spending the final weeks before the election painting his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, as a quasi socialist who wants ''to redistribute wealth'' and whose tax cuts are a ''government giveaway.''
 But it can be a complicated argument in this topsy-turvy year of financial collapse, when the government, from the Republican president on down, has seemed to be in the giveaway business and the wealth-spreading business an awful lot of late. 
 There have been taxpayer-financed bailouts of individual businesses and broader interventions like the $700 billion bailout of the financial system -- which both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama supported -- not to mention the Bush administration's move to buy a $250 billion stake in the nation's banks. In the wake of the financial crisis, everyone seems to like some state-directed form of wealth redistribution, including Mr. McCain, who wants to use taxpayer money to buy distressed mortgages and sell them back to homeowners at more affordable rates.
 ''I'm going to spend a lot of money to bring relief to you,'' Mr. McCain pledged to cheers at a rally here Sunday, just a few minutes after criticizing Mr. Obama for wanting to ''spread the wealth around.''
 At times the message sounds a bit mixed.
 For several days, Mr. McCain has been trying to paint Mr. Obama as something of a socialist, largely because of his plan to let the Bush tax cuts expire for people making more than $250,000 and to give tax cuts to people making less than that.
 In a radio address on Saturday, Mr. McCain said that ''at least in Europe, the Socialist leaders who so admire my opponent are upfront about their objectives.'' Asked in an interview on ''Fox News Sunday'' whether he believed that Mr. Obama's plans amount to socialism, Mr. McCain said, ''I think his plans are redistribution of the wealth.'' Pressed again on the subject, Mr. McCain said, ''That's one of the tenets of socialism.''
 And in rallies from Miami to North Carolina to here, Mr. McCain gets some of the biggest crowd reactions when he thunders that Mr. Obama wants to ''spread the wealth around.'' Some members of the audience even chant the line along with him. 
 Still, at rally after rally Mr. McCain denounces Mr. Obama for wanting to redistribute wealth, hitting especially hard on Mr. Obama's plan to give tax credits, in the form of checks, to some people who do not pay income tax. (Mr. McCain omits the fact that his own health care plan would do much the same thing, giving tax credits of $5,000 to families for health insurance, regardless of whether they pay income taxes.)
 But some political scientists and economists said the old labels and buzzwords might no longer pack the same punch. Gerald P. O'Driscoll Jr., a scholar at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group, noted that the government had just intervened in the financial markets in ways not seen since the 1930s. 
 Darrell M. West, the director of governance studies at the Brookings Institution, a public policy research group, said, ''The biggest socialist right now is George W. Bush.''
 Mr. McCain has stepped up his focus on the economy, often using the example of Joe Wurzelbacher -- better known as Joe the Plumber -- to illustrate his points and gain traction on the economy, an issue he has often struggled with. 
 Mr. Wurzelbacher, a plumber from outside Toledo, Ohio, who questioned Mr. Obama's tax plans when they met earlier this month, became a sensation after Mr. McCain repeatedly invoked his name in the final presidential debate. 
 It was in his encounter with Mr. Wurzelbacher that Mr. Obama uttered the phrase that Mr. McCain now derides at nearly every rally: ''spread the wealth around.''
 A transcript of the encounter from ABC News indicates that Mr. Obama used the phrase after Mr. Wurzelbacher wondered if Mr. Obama might support a flat tax. Mr. Obama said he did not because he did not think it was fair for someone as well-off as himself to pay the same tax rate as a waitress. 
 ''My attitude is that if the economy's good for folks from the bottom up, it's going to be good for everybody,'' Mr. Obama said, according to the transcript, adding that plumbers are better off when there are more customers who can afford to hire them. ''And right now everybody's so pinched that business is bad for everybody, and I think when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody,'' Mr. Obama said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INCOME TAX (72%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008



847 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 20, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Real Plumbers of Ohio

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Forty years ago, Richard Nixon made a remarkable marketing discovery. By exploiting America's divisions -- divisions over Vietnam, divisions over cultural change and, above all, racial divisions -- he was able to reinvent the Republican brand. The party of plutocrats was repackaged as the party of the ''silent majority,'' the regular guys -- white guys, it went without saying -- who didn't like the social changes taking place. 
 It was a winning formula. And the great thing was that the new packaging didn't require any change in the product's actual contents -- in fact, the G.O.P. was able to keep winning elections even as its actual policies became more pro-plutocrat, and less favorable to working Americans, than ever. 
 John McCain's strategy, in this final stretch, is based on the belief that the old formula still has life in it.
 Thus we have Sarah Palin expressing her joy at visiting the ''pro-America'' parts of the country -- yep, we're all traitors here in central New Jersey. Meanwhile we've got Mr. McCain making Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, a k a Joe the Plumber -- who had confronted Barack Obama on the campaign trail, alleging that the Democratic candidate would raise his taxes -- the centerpiece of his attack on Mr. Obama's economic proposals. 
 And when it turned out that the right's new icon had a few issues, like not being licensed and comparing Mr. Obama to Sammy Davis Jr., conservatives played victim: see how much those snooty elitists hate the common man?
 But what's really happening to the plumbers of Ohio, and to working Americans in general? 
 First of all, they aren't making a lot of money. You may recall that in one of the early Democratic debates Charles Gibson of ABC suggested that $200,000 a year was a middle-class income. Tell that to Ohio plumbers: according to the May 2007 occupational earnings report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average annual income of ''plumbers, pipefitters and steamfitters'' in Ohio was $47,930. 
 Second, their real incomes have stagnated or fallen, even in supposedly good years. The Bush administration assured us that the economy was booming in 2007 -- but the average Ohio plumber's income in that 2007 report was only 15.5 percent higher than in the 2000 report, not enough to keep up with the 17.7 percent rise in consumer prices in the Midwest. As Ohio plumbers went, so went the nation: median household income, adjusted for inflation, was lower in 2007 than it had been in 2000. 
 Third, Ohio plumbers have been having growing trouble getting health insurance, especially if, like many craftsmen, they work for small firms. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, in 2007 only 45 percent of companies with fewer than 10 employees offered health benefits, down from 57 percent in 2000.
 And bear in mind that all these data pertain to 2007 -- which was as good as it got in recent years. Now that the ''Bush boom,'' such as it was, is over, we can see that it achieved a dismal distinction: for the first time on record, an economic expansion failed to raise most Americans' incomes above their previous peak. 
 Since then, of course, things have gone rapidly downhill, as millions of working Americans have lost their jobs and their homes. And all indicators suggest that things will get much worse in the months and years ahead.
 So what does all this say about the candidates? Who's really standing up for Ohio's plumbers?
 Mr. McCain claims that Mr. Obama's policies would lead to economic disaster. But President Bush's policies have already led to disaster -- and whatever he may say, Mr. McCain proposes continuing Mr. Bush's policies in all essential respects, and he shares Mr. Bush's anti-government, anti-regulation philosophy.
 What about the claim, based on Joe the Plumber's complaint, that ordinary working Americans would face higher taxes under Mr. Obama? Well, Mr. Obama proposes raising rates on only the top two income tax brackets -- and the second-highest bracket for a head of household starts at an income, after deductions, of $182,400 a year. 
 Maybe there are plumbers out there who earn that much, or who would end up suffering from Mr. Obama's proposed modest increases in taxes on dividends and capital gains -- America is a big country, and there's probably a high-income plumber with a huge stock market portfolio out there somewhere. But the typical plumber would pay lower, not higher, taxes under an Obama administration, and would have a much better chance of getting health insurance. 
 I don't want to suggest that everyone would be better off under the Obama tax plan. Joe the plumber would almost certainly be better off, but Richie the hedge fund manager would take a serious hit.
 But that's the point. Whatever today's G.O.P. is, it isn't the party of working Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); STATISTICS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); SARAH PALIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008



848 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Waging Class Warfare With Much Paper

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
It's been 82 years since the death of Eugene Debs, and while socialism has finally arrived in the United States -- in the costume of a giant Wall Street bailout -- you wouldn't know it from a visit to the office of the Socialist Party USA.
 Tucked in a musty wooden cubby in a building one block north of Houston Street, the party's national office is a voluble and strident little place, a lecture hall of sorts, where the lectures -- some might call them propaganda -- have been thumbtacked to the walls. 
 ''Feed the Poor!'' they say. Or ''Eat the Rich!'' Or ''Don't Trust Corporate Media!'' Like an older cousin from your childhood, the room itself is forever giving advice.
 Much of that advice these days concerns the bailout, which the party has opposed in a series of elaborate communiques that advocate a federal tax on millionaires and the eventual abolition of all financial markets. It's a far cry from the government's plan to introduce a whiff of Soviet-style command into the capitalist economy -- a juxtaposition that the Socialists find absurd.
 ''It doesn't make any sense,'' said Zelig Stern, a taxi driver and the secretary of the party's New York chapter. ''Corporate socialism can't exist -- it's a contradiction in terms.''
 Contradiction or not, it would seem it does exist, much to the chagrin, it should be said, of the party's stalwarts. There is, after all, a certain indignity in fighting the class war for 107 years only to find one's chosen style of governance employed on behalf of the other -- which is to say, the very upper -- class.
 And yet the fight goes on: through peace events, healthcare forums, immigration seminars and kaffeeklatsches with important members of the European left. The office's intrinsic function, though, is certainly the publication of an endless stream of printed pages: from the semimonthly magazine ''The Socialist'' to the internal party organ known by all as ''Hammer and Tongs.''
 ''If there's anything normal around here,'' said Mr. Stern, ''it's folding papers and stuffing envelopes.'' 
 And printing fliers. And writing pamphlets. And making posters. And running off innumerable copies of the little one-page sheets that are known, collectively, as ''the literature.'' After a while, in fact, one starts to think that the raison d'etre of the Socialist Party office is to serve as a financial assistance package for the paper industry.
 Of course, it could also be that the party -- which has never won a presidential election (and is poised to lose another) -- has little more to offer at this stage than advice. Sound advice, perhaps (especially at a time when even capitalists have openly questioned the capitalist system), but no more than the printed opinions of a permanent opposition: a passionate, if seldom-heeded, voice. 
 On a recent afternoon, Mr. Stern and a colleague sat in the office planning out the rest of the week's agenda. There was a Ralph Nader rally in a few days and the last of the presidential debates that night.
 But first there was a small administrative task. 
 They had just bought several bags of printer ink and paper. Now they had to put the stuff away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Manhattan office of the Socialist Party USA, where a constant stream of printed material is produced. ''If there's anything normal around here, it's folding papers and stuffing envelopes,'' said Zelig Stern, secretary of the New York chapter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (60%); PAPER MFG (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



849 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: China Plans to Bolster Its Slowing Economy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The Chinese government has begun drafting tax and spending policies to stimulate the economy after third-quarter growth of 9 percent, the slowest pace since an outbreak of SARS in 2003.
 Industrial production and construction slackened from July through September because of weak exports, a slumping real estate market and temporary restrictions imposed during the Olympics, the National Bureau of Statistics announced on Monday.
 China's State Council, or cabinet, met over the weekend and decided to shift the emphasis toward maintaining ''a stable and rapid economic development,'' the state-controlled media reported on Monday. The previous policy had been ''to ensure growth and control inflation.''
 As part of the new policy, the State Council announced that it would increase export tax rebates for things as varied as labor-intensive products like garments and textile to high-value products like mechanical and electrical products. Banks will be encouraged to lend more money to small and medium-size enterprises and support programs will be drafted to help farmers. 
 Government agencies will also spend more to rebuild earthquake-damaged areas of southwestern China, to improve transportation links and other infrastructure and to improve the social welfare system, the official Xinhua news agency said, without providing details.
 Hu Angang, a prominent Chinese economist who is the director of the Center for China Studies at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said in an interview on Friday that the government was drafting plans to step up its spending on vocational training and other educational programs for adults. The goal is to help China's workers move away from low-wage, low-skill assembly line tasks in export-oriented factories and to provide these workers with the skills necessary for an internationally competitive economy that balances the service and manufacturing sectors.
 ''The government needs to give consideration to human capital investment,'' Mr. Hu said.
 Chinese officials maintain that their country will suffer only limited harm from the global financial crisis, mainly through slower exports. ''Our economy remains vigorous and has the capability to defend itself against international risks,'' Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said on Friday.
 Increased export tax rebates will make Chinese exports even more competitive in the United States and Europe, particularly as China has intervened in currency markets to halt any further appreciation of China's currency since mid-June. With the United States heavily dependent on China to buy the Treasury bonds needed to finance a bailout of the American financial system, the Bush administration has stopped criticizing China's trade and currency policies.
 Policy makers in almost any country except China would be delighted with 9 percent growth, particularly given the financial turmoil that was worsening at the end of the third quarter.
 But China faces a particularly acute need to maintain high growth rates. Its cities are growing by nearly 20 million people a year because of migration from lower-income rural areas.
 Most economists estimate that 8 percent growth is needed to prevent urban unemployment from rising, which could ignite demonstrations and undermine the country's social stability.
 Clement Chen, the chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, which represents the employers of 10 million workers in mainland China, said that the policies chosen by the State Council would reduce the number of factory bankruptcies and layoffs likely in the months ahead. But he predicted the policies would not halt the overall deterioration in business prospects for exporters in China.
 ''The worst impact, the worst situation, is not here yet,'' he said. ''I do believe 2009 will be worse than 2008.''
 Corporate executives from cities across China said in interviews last week at the Canton Fair in Guangzhou and the Global Sources consumer electronics show in Hong Kong that while layoffs were rising, joblessness did not yet appear to be a serious problem.
 Many laid-off migrant workers in export-reliant regions like Guangdong province, next to Hong Kong, have returned to their home villages, because high food prices have made farming more remunerative. Others are finding jobs in inland cities that depend more on consumer demand within China.
 Workers are not yet lining up outside factory gates in search of work, as they did a decade ago. But they are nonetheless becoming easier to find and hire, said Bill Chen, a sales manager at the Tinly Jieyang Electro-Acoustic Devices Company, which makes automotive stereo speakers in Shenzhen that recently halved its work force to 100 employees.
 ''At the beginning of this year, it was quite hard, but now it is not difficult,'' Mr. Chen said of finding workers.
 Employees interviewed last month at three locations in Dongguan, a factory city in Guangdong, agreed that jobs were still available.
 Standard Chartered warned in a research report Monday that economic growth would continue to weaken, from 11.9 percent last year to 9.6 percent for all of this year, 7.9 percent next year and just 7.1 percent in 2010. The bank noted that the State Council's plans stopped short of calling for government spending, while the broad goals enunciated by the State Council with few specifics may mean that the government will not act swiftly.
 Some economists had suggested in August that the forced closing of many factories during the Olympics, to provide cleaner air for the athletes, had been the main factor behind the beginnings of weaker economic activity. But extensive statistics released on Monday by the National Bureau of Statistics pointed to a much broader pattern of weaker growth than could be explained by the Beijing Olympics.
 Many factories, power plants and other operations reopened in the Beijing area last month. Yet industrial production expanded less briskly in September, rising 11.4 percent from a year earlier, than in August, when it grew 12.8 percent.
 China has more options than most countries to cope with slower growth. Inflation is slowing at the consumer level -- the government said on Monday that it was 4.6 percent in September, down from 4.9 percent in August and the fifth monthly decline.
 With less to fear from rising prices, China's central bank has already begun reducing regulated interest rates and loosening restrictions on bank lending, even though these steps could result in an expansion of the money supply and an increase in inflationary pressures. With the government running a large budget surplus, the finance ministry has begun lowering taxes on stock market transactions.
 ''We expect the Chinese government to continue to loosen policies on the back of fast-slowing activity growth and dissipating inflationary pressures,'' said Hong Liang, an economist in the Beijing office of Goldman Sachs, in a research note Monday.
 Growth of 9 percent in the third quarter was slower than most economists had expected. Surveys of economists' expectations for the past quarter had found average forecasts of anywhere from 9.1 to 9.7 percent, depending on which economists were included and when they were asked.
 Output in the third quarter of this year was the least strong since the economy expanded 7.9 percent in the second quarter of 2003, when an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome temporarily closed many businesses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A textile factory in Xiangfan, China. Higher export tax rebates will benefit the industry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
Steel rolls are prepared for export at the Yingkou harbor in northeastern China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Two salesmen in astronaut costumes talking to a visitor at the housing expo in Wuhan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Slowing Growth: Weaker industrial production and slackening exports caused Chinese economic growth to decline in the third quarter to its lowest level since an outbreak of SARS in the spring of 2003.(Source: National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC Data) Chart details line graph for product and production. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CORPORATE TAX (88%); CURRENCIES (84%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); INFLATION (73%); STATISTICS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); SARS (72%); BONDS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (64%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



850 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2211 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 21, 2008

 BODY:
International
PAKISTANIS SHOW LITTLE ENTHUSIASM
For Fighting Militants
President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan has begun calling the fight against the country's militants Pakistan's war. But a parliamentary debate he called for that was meant to forge a national policy on how to fight the Taliban and Al Qaeda has instead been dominated by calls for dialogue with the Taliban and peppered with opposition to what lawmakers condemned as a war foisted on Pakistan by the United States. PAGE A6
AID WORKER KILLED IN KABUL
Gayle Williams, a 34-year-old foreign aid worker in Afghanistan as part of a British Christian organization, was shot dead as she walked to work in a residential area of Kabul by two gunmen on a motorbike. A Taliban spokesman said that his group was responsible for the attack and that she was a target because her group was proselytizing -- a tactic for which her organization, Serve Afghanistan, is not known. PAGE A8 
BRITAIN RECONSIDERS AUSTERITY
The wild spending spree that has engulfed Britain over the last 15 years has limped to an end as the world's markets slow down, and many hope the downturn will lead the nation to return to the values of the past. ''I think it wouldn't do any harm at all for some of the younger generation to be less greedy,'' one retiree said. ''It's not a very nice thing to say, but maybe they could behave a little more sensibly.'' PAGE A11
AWARD GIVEN TO BOTSWANA LEADER
Botswana's former president, Festus G. Mogae, was awarded the Mo Ibrahim Prize for Achievement in African Leadership, which is given annually as a way to celebrate and encourage good government in Africa. He was honored by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, which was named for and started by the Sudanese billionaire, for consolidating his nation's democracy, ensuring that its diamond wealth enriched its people and providing bold leadership during the AIDS pandemic. PAGE A10
CANADA'S LIBERAL LEADER RESIGNS
Stephane Dion, the leader of the Liberal Party, said that he would step down, a moment that was a new low for a party that has dominated Canadian politics for much of the country's history. PAGE A12
ZIMBABWE LEADER MISSES TALKS
Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, above, missed talks in Swaziland with Southern African leaders on the crisis in his country, after his rival and negotiating partner, President Robert Mugabe, refused to give him a passport. The talks were rescheduled for next week, and the government of Botswana called for new, internationally supervised elections in Zimbabwe if the deadlock on power-sharking continues. PAGE A10
National
NEBRASKA TO REVISIT
Child Safe Haven Law
Nebraska's ''safe haven'' law was intended to prevent newborns from being abandoned to possible death by allowing desperate mothers to drop off children, without prosecution. But Nebraska's law offered this protection to any child left at a hospital, and after a number of older children being abandoned under the law -- including a case in which a single father dropped off nine children -- the governor and senior state legislators are considering a revision to the law to apply only to newborns. PAGE A14
EBAY TO CEASE IVORY SALES
EBay, the online auction giant, said it would ban all commerce in ivory, including heirlooms, to avoid providing a market that would encourage the slaughter of endangered elephants. The announcement came as a conservation organization based in Massachusetts prepared to issue the latest in a series of reports documenting how online auction sites have become a magnet for trading items derived from endangered species. PAGE A16
TESTY EXCHANGES AT STEVENS TRIAL
The first time Senator Ted Stevens answered questions from federal prosecutors in his ethics trial, he was testy -- even hostile. But he was more subdued on Monday, as Brenda Morris, the prosecutor, sought to take apart his previous assertions that he was unaware that a variety of expensive goods and services he received were gifts from an Alaskan oil tycoon and other friends. PAGE A16
PUTTING A RED STATE IN PLAY
Senator Barack Obama has made substantial inroads in North Carolina, turning the state, once reliably red, into a battleground. The change this year can be attributed to a change in the state's demographics over last decade, the state's considerable student and African-American populations, and Mr. Obama's extensive ground organization, huge financial advantage and amount spent on television advertising. PAGE A14
OBAMA TO BRIEFLY LEAVE TRAIL
Heading into the bell lap of his campaign for president, Senator Barack Obama announced that he would leave the race for 36 hours to visit his gravely ill grandmother in Hawaii. His grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, 85, all but raised Mr. Obama from the age of 10 until he left for college, and he spoke of her at the Democratic Convention in Denver. Mr. Obama's mother and father, and grandfather, are dead. PAGE A18
Business
BERNANKE URGES MORE SPENDING
To Stimulate Economy
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, has urged a second round of spending measures to help stimulate the economy. This endorsement was echoed by Democrats, but the Bush administration was skeptical, despite declaring that it was open to proposals. Page B8
POSSIBLE EXELON-NRG DEAL
The Exelon Corporation has made an unsolicited bid to buy NRG Energy, a power generator based in Princeton, N.J. If accepted, it would create the largest power company in the country in terms of factors like market capitalization and assets, Exeton said. Page B3
GREEN ENERGY FEELS THE HIT
As the economy limps its way to who-knows-where, fuel prices have fallen. Despite strong political support for renewable energy, shares in things like solar, wind and other technologies have plummeted even further. These environmentally conscious, though wallet-emptying, technologies have struggled as fears mount that consumers will tighten their belts and be even less likely to invest in them. Page B1
JAPAN LOOKS TO EXPAND ITS ROLE
The recent economic shake-up has created a lot of things: panic, debt, possible regulations, finger-pointing and -- opportunity. Though Japan is facing its own recession, it is exploring ways to increase its role in the world economy, particularly in the area of leadership. The country could use its $2 trillion in reserves to help struggling economies. The rest of the Asian countries, many of them similarly flush, are considering how to fill the voids left in the crisis's wake. Page B1
FROM PEOPLE TO PROFIT MARGINS
Internet sensations like YouTube and Google have proved that high user volume can be more lucrative than a customer base. Now another direction for this concept has emerged. The hydra that is blogging has sprouted a new head: microblogging. Companies like Twitter, shown above on an iPhone, and Yammer allow people to use their cellphones and the Internet to broadcast their exploits to virtual followers and address a growing user base. Page B3
FREQUENT SLEEPER MILES
As airline travel becomes increasingly expensive and less comfortable, at least once you arrive at your hotel, you might feel some respite. Thirty-nine new hotel brands have begun in the last four years. That competitive market has forced hotels to offer loyalty programs with perks like the ability to redeem hotel room rewards without a single blackout date. Page B6
New York
BILLIONAIRES SIGNAL OPPOSITION
To Term Limit Revisions
Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir, and Tom Golisano, above, the owner of the Buffalo Sabres, threatened to imperil Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's bid to revise the city's term limits law, just days before a possible vote on the measure by the City Council. Mr. Golisano said he would finance a media campaign to fight Mr. Bloomberg's plan, while Mr. Lauder said he would vigorously oppose a plan allowing council members now serving their first term to remain in office for a third term. PAGE A21
Sports
AND THEN THEY WENT AND SIGNED
The Best Hot Dog Vendor Available
The Dallas Cowboys' Jerry Jones and the Yankees' George Steinbrenner, two of the most outspoken team owners in sports, are embarking on a new joint venture: selling hot dogs and beer as partners in a new concessions company. The company, called Legends Hospitality, will be a way for both owners to inject revenue into their respective teams' expensive new stadiums, which are set to open next year. PAGE B16
THE COWBOYS' SLOW MELTDOWN
It wasn't so long ago that the Dallas Cowboys were a sexy postseason pick and looked like the best team in football. That, of course, was before the Cowboys were trounced by the lowly St. Louis Rams, which turned what might have been one of the worst months of Jerry Jones's ownership of the franchise into abject humiliation. But the implosion was perhaps a long time coming. PAGE B19
A BASEBALL TOWN BEFORE THE RAYS
Baseball teams regularly venture to St. Petersburg for spring training. But actual games that matter in October? ''Impossible,'' writes George Vecsey. ''The old Cardinals and Yankees and Mets, who all used to train here, could understand a zippy upgraded team like the Rays winning the pennant easier than St. Pete's suddenly being host to the World Series.'' PAGE B17
Obituaries
RICHARD BLACKWELL, 86
To the world, he was Mr. Blackwell, the designer of over-the-top fashions and originator of the outlandishly satiric, but globally ballyhooed worst-dressed list. He was no friend to understatement, and once designed bejeweled toilet seats, which failed to sell because they were uncomfortable to sit on. PAGE A27
SCIENCE
A SECRET PLANET OF PAIN, WHERE NO WORDS ARE QUITE RIGHT
There are no pink ribbons to wear if you've had a miscarriage, no walk-a-thons or T-shirts to encourage awareness and prevention. And to the extent that we have a language to talk about miscarriages, it's full of airy platitudes, N. West Moss writes. She recently had her third miscarriage in a year, she offers, and finds that talking about miscarriages is fraught with themes like age and usefulness. PAGE D5
WHEN ALL ELSE FAILS, CAST BLAME
Doctors and psychotherapists generally don't like it when their patients don't get better. But the fact is that lots of patients elude doctors' clinical skill and therapeutic cleverness. That's often when the trouble (and the blame) starts. PAGE D6
BIOCHEMIST NOW DRIVING A VAN
In a couple of months, two chemists will head to Stockholm to collect the Nobel Prize in chemistry and $450,000 each in prize money in recognition of their development of a revolutionary technique that lights up the inner workings of living cells. Meanwhile, the scientist who provided the essential piece that made their work possible is out of science, and driving a courtesy van for a car dealer in Huntsville, Ala., earning $10 an hour. PAGE D3
Arts
IT'S JUST A GLOBAL CRISIS.
No Need for Alarm.
Much of the ''Frontline'' episode ''Heat'' consists of a reporter interviewing various energy industry executives and pointedly asking them why obvious warning signs about global warming are not being heeded. He is in turn greeted in with weaselly nonresponses, and Neil Genslinger writes that the breadth of those evasions negates any feeling that steps are being taken to resolve the problem. PAGE C6
A FRESH FACE, AND A RISE IN RATINGS
Rachel Maddow's television ascent has been quick: in the month or so since the premiere of her left-leaning news show on MSNBC, she has doubled the audience of the cable news network's 9 p.m. time slot. Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC, said that her performance has made ''cable news a three-way race now.'' PAGE C1
GOING WITH THE MUSIC
At the Metro Baptist Church in Clinton, the Mark Lamb Dance troupe tries a tricky maneuver: a full evening of largely improvised dance. There are solos punctuated by stream-of-consciousness thoughts about politics, gender and the dancers' personal lives -- all of which, Roslyn Sulcas writes, ''are just short enough to exude an innocent charm.'' PAGE c3
Editorial
QUESTIONS ABOUT THEIR HEALTH
The presidency is a physically demanding, highly stressful job. There is no excuse for the failure of both candidates to fully disclose medical records that clearly bear on their ability to do that job. Page A24
MORE SADNESS FOR APPALACHIA
The Bush administration is writing one more sad chapter in the long, tortured history of Appalachia's coal-rich hills: a revision of one of the last regulatory protections against an environmentally ruinous mining practice called mountaintop removal. Page A24
SENATOR DODD'S MORTGAGES
Senator Christopher Dodd admits that he was extended ''courtesies'' on two home mortgages from the Countrywide Financial Corporation. It's time for him to extend some courtesy to his constituents and release the records on the mortgages, without further delay. Page A24
Op-Ed
BOB HERBERT
John McCain and the Republicans ratchet up a phony voter-registration scandal while continuing to undermine the rights of legitimately registered voters. Page A25
NO DIVIDENDS ON THIS BAILOUT
Rescued banks could redirect more than $25 billion in dividends next year to shareholders, including the companies' chief executives. In an Op-Ed article, David S. Scharfstein and Jeremy C. Stein write that the government should put an immediate stop to the dividend payouts of banks receiving direct federal support. Page A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (73%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%); STEPHANE DION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); BOTSWANA (93%); AFRICA (92%); CANADA (92%); SUDAN (79%); SWAZILAND (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



851 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Patio Man Revisited

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Patio Man is surprised at how much the bankruptcy of Sharper Image has upset him. In the vast expanse of teenage clothing stores at the mall, Sharper Image at least offered him a moment of interest and delight. The store allowed him to indulge his curiosity in noise-canceling headphones, indoor putting greens and overly expensive toy cars. Now it seems that might all come to an end, and he will have to adjust to life without. He is adjusting to a lot of changes these days.
 For all the talk of plumbers and investment bankers, populists and elitists, Patio Man is still at the epicenter of national politics. He is the quintessential suburban American, the service economy worker, the guy who wears khakis to work each day, with the security badge on the belt clip around his waist. 
 He lives in northern Virginia, along the I-4 corridor near Orlando, Fla., in or near Columbus, Ohio, along the Front Range of Colorado, in the converging megalopolis between Albuquerque and Santa Fe and in many other places. 
 He has a house -- worth less and less -- in a relatively new development. He's holding off on the new car. He's trying not to look at his retirement account balance. But he's happy with the new street-scape shopping area where he and his family can stroll before a movie. 
 If you wanted to pick words to capture Patio Man's political ideals, they would be responsibility, respectability and order. Patio Man moved to his home because he wanted an orderly place where he could raise his kids. His ideal neighborhood is Mayberry with BlackBerries.
 He doesn't expect much of government. He believes that he is responsible for his own economic destiny. But he does expect government to provide him with a background level of order. 
 In times of turmoil, he has gravitated toward the party that could restore his sense of order. In the 1970s, crime and social breakdown seemed like the biggest threats to order, and he gravitated to the G.O.P. In the late 1990s, Republican revolutionaries seemed to bring instability, and he softened on Clinton. Then terrorism threatened his equilibrium and he helped re-elect Bush. Then, post-Iraq and post-Katrina, administrative incompetence led him a bit the other way. 
 Now disorder has come from an unexpected direction, not from foreign enemies or domestic zealotry but from a society-wide contagion of financial risk-taking. Government programs like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac seduced people into homes they could not afford. Private bankers took on too much risk with too little capital. Consumers, including Patio Man himself, racked up an enormous personal debt.
 The effects threaten everything he has achieved. There are foreclosures in his neighborhood. Like all taxpayers, he's been asked to backstop Wall Street's losses. He braces for recession. 
 How is Patio Man responding?
 On one level, the changes are surprisingly modest. There have been no big changes in how Americans describe their political philosophies. Somewhere between 40 percent and 49 percent still call themselves conservative, and about half as many call themselves liberal. Distrust of government is still high. Ronald Brownstein of the National Journal compared today's poll results, group by group, with past election results. Especially for those over 30, the stability of the preferences is more striking than the changes.
 But deeper down, there are some shifts in values. Americans, including suburban Americans, are less socially conservative. They are more aware of the gap between rich and poor. They are more open to government action to reduce poverty. 
 But, most of all, there is a tropism toward order and stability. 
 Some liberals think they are headed for an age of liberal dominance and government expansion. ''If Obama offers a big, budget-busting program next year, it will more likely be seen as fair than irresponsible,'' Jonathan Alter writes in Newsweek.
 But the shift in public opinion is not from right to left, or from anti-government to pro-government, it's from risk to caution, from disorder to consolidation.
 There is a deep current of bourgeois culture running through American suburbia. It is not right wing, but it is conservative: a distrust of those far away; a belief in convention and respectability; and a strong reaction against anything that threatens to undermine the stability of the established order.
 Democrats have done well in suburbia recently because they have run the kind of candidates who seem like the safer choice -- socially moderate, pragmatic and fiscally hawkish. They, or any party, will run astray if they threaten the mood of chastened sobriety that has swept over the subdivisions. 
 Patio Man wants change. But this is no time for more risk or more debt. Debt in the future is no solution to the debt racked up in the past. This is a back-to-basics moment, a return to safety and the fundamentals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); POLITICS (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); PRIVATE BANKING (62%); TERRORISM (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: TSIC INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



852 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Leadership In Carbon Control At Risk in Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Europe's role as a global leader in combating climate change risks becoming the next victim of the global financial crisis.
 As the threats of global recession and rising unemployment loom after the expensive bank bailouts, some European leaders are demanding that the trade bloc backpedal on a pledge announced with much fanfare last spring to cut greenhouse emissions by 20 percent and to generate 20 percent of power through renewable sources by 2020.
 At a meeting Monday in Luxembourg, the Italian environment minister, Stefania Prestigiacomo, warned that her country had ''many requests for changes,'' and would support turning the potentially expensive pledge into law only if the issue could be reviewed again next year. 
 That follows threats by the leaders of Italy, Poland, Latvia and others at the European Union meeting last week in Brussels to veto the measures unless they were softened.
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, has pushed European leaders to stick to the deadline of December. That is when negotiations are scheduled to begin about extending beyond 2012 global efforts to cut greenhouse gases under the Kyoto climate treaty. 
 ''There is now a greater possibility that the E.U. misses a deadline it set for itself,'' Yvo de Boer, the executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, said Monday. ''That would call into question Europe's willingness to back up an offer that was applauded by the whole world with specific policies.'' 
 European leaders left the meeting last week saying that they would need unanimity to push forward. 
 Meanwhile, the American presidential election is likely to make the United States' policy on climate change more proactive. That could further diminish the global influence that Europeans have so far been able to claim.
 ''We should not rule out that at some stage whoever becomes president may have completely new ideas,'' said Christian Egenhofer, an energy and climate specialist at the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. ''If the E.U. doesn't have its policies in place it could be a very weak discussion partner.''
 Some energy specialists say that European policy makers seriously misunderstood how difficult it would be to transform the energy sector.
 Thomas Schneider, a member of IEEE, a professional association for the advancement of technology, said that some of the most direct ways to lower carbon dioxide would be to deploy large numbers of windmills and nuclear power plants. But he warned that even under the most promising timelines, that would be difficult for Europe to achieve by 2020.
 ''The financial crisis has exacerbated the issue of how Europe would meet its targets,'' Mr. Schneider said, ''but this is mainly an engineering problem.'' 
 Even before the credit squeeze became a full-fledged banking crisis, European countries were displaying different levels of enthusiasm for the emissions measures.
 On one side are Poland and other coal-dependent nations in Eastern Europe, as well as Italy. These countries face potentially higher costs under a system that caps carbon dioxide emissions from heavy industry, as introduced in 2005. 
 Some countries also say that they are being asked to do too much too quickly in areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
 On the other side is France, which uses nuclear sources to generate most of its power, and Britain, which favors climate regulation, partly because it has become a hub for trading permits to emit carbon dioxide. Also favoring regulation are the Dutch and most Nordic countries, which have successfully installed several initiatives to replace fossil fuel-fired power with renewable sources of energy.
 Officials in Brussels warn that signs of a weakening commitment by European leaders to fighting climate change could start a chain reaction, lowering ambitions among other central players, like China and India. The resolve of some developing countries to participate in a global climate deal could also weaken if they expect that a strapped Europe will become stingier.
 The European system to control emissions is based on the sale of permits to emit carbon that are worth billions of euros. Under the planned overhaul of the system, industries would have to pay for a substantially larger portion of those permits. 
 Revenue would most likely be earmarked for European governments, but some funds could go toward helping developing countries combat climate change.
 Mr. de Boer, the United Nations climate official, said that developing nations had already made it clear that they expected more financial support in exchange for becoming part of a global agreement on climate change.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some countries in Europe are coal dependent and potentially face higher costs under a system that caps carbon dioxide emissions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN MEISSNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); VETO (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ELECTIONS (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (98%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); LATVIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



853 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: In Finance, Japan Sees An Opening

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Just six months ago, five or six ''bulge bracket'' investment banks stood astride the globe virtually dictating the terms of engagement of international finance -- managing deals, pronouncing companies (or countries) investment-worthy or not, and dispensing advice that companies (and countries) ignored at their peril. 
 Now those brash American institutions have been swept away or tamed. And as the global financial order convulses, some Japanese leaders say they believe their country should take a more active role in economic leadership. While many European leaders cast recriminations and ''I told you so's,'' Japan and much of Asia are considering how to fill some of the voids left behind. 
 The United States will commit as much as a trillion dollars to bailing out its banks, but the Asians are flush with cash, even as countries like Japan -- the world's second-largest economy -- face recessions of their own. 
 Japan could use some of its formidable $2 trillion in reserves to help troubled nations, including South Korea, should that country's own recent bailout of its banks prove inadequate.
 ''The dominance of American financial giants has been shaken,'' said Takatoshi Ito, a professor of economic policy at the University of Tokyo. ''Now the tables have turned, and an Asian country like Japan can have the role of white knight and capital provider.''
 Some may wonder how Japan, which suffered its own severe downturn in the 1990s and has a stalling economy now, has the right to tell others what to do. But in recent days, lawmakers have begun floating proposals about how Japan, traditionally passive, might use its deep pockets and bitter experience from the 1990s to help global growth and, along the way, Japan's own export-driven economy. 
 Recently, Shoichi Nakagawa, Japan's finance minister, offered some of Japan's $996 billion in foreign currency reserves to rescue smaller nations threatened with bankruptcy by the global credit crisis. Other lawmakers have suggested using yen loans to help developing countries build roads and power plants, to revive global growth and rekindle demand for Japanese bulldozers and other goods.
 Another idea taking shape here calls for sending accountants and lawyers experienced from Japan's 1990s financial cleanup to help American banks and regulators sift through mountains of toxic American mortgage debt.
 While it is unlikely that the nascent proposals would stem what many call the biggest financial crisis since the Depression, the fact they are being discussed at all underscores the vacuum in leadership felt across the world in the wake of an American-led economic debacle. The fact they are appearing in Japan, a nation long content to follow Washington's lead, reflects what many here call a movement toward a new economic order in which no single country dominates.
 ''With the relative decline in U.S. economic and financial power, it is inevitable that U.S. leadership will also decline,'' said Yasuhisa Shiozaki, a former chief cabinet secretary. ''We are seeing a new, multipolar economic regime starting to emerge.''
 Mr. Shiozaki and others are careful to point out that no one is talking about replacing Washington as guardian of the global economy. Rather, what they envision is a world where America shares oversight of the global economy with emerging powers like China and India, as well as Europe and Japan.
 They are also talking about each country bringing its various strengths to the table as a new, post-subprime world economic order takes shape. 
 Many political leaders favor using Japan's foreign reserves as a sort of war chest for combating the economic malaise. The finance minister's offer, made at a meeting in Washington of the International Monetary Fund earlier this month, would keep Japanese money ready as a lifeline to strapped countries. 
 While lawmakers here refuse to say so in public, their biggest source of concern appears to be neighboring South Korea, whose currency and stock markets have both been hard hit by flight of foreign capital.
 The finance minister's plan calls for financing bailouts that will be administered by the International Monetary Fund. 
 Japanese finance officials, however, have also been talking with the fund about easing the terms of its bailouts, said Naoyuki Shinohara, the vice minister for international affairs. Asia still has bitter memories of the harsh terms the fund imposed after the region's 1997 financial crisis.
 Other proposals call for Japan to spur the global economy through increasing the billions in overseas development loans and other aid it spends building new infrastructure in developing countries in Asia and Africa, for example, as China has also done. A column in Asahi Shimbun, a leading daily, likened the idea to the Depression-era New Deal.
 ''We need to create new sources of demand, or the global economy is in trouble,'' said Hakuo Yanagisawa, a former financial services minister who now heads the Liberal Democratic Party's project team on responding to the current financial crisis. ''A purely financial response to the crisis is not enough.''
 Plans are also afoot to assemble teams of financial experts from Japan's private sector and 1990s-era government bodies like the Resolution and Collection Corporation, which led Japan's cleanup of its nonperforming real estate loans a decade ago, according to Mr. Yanagisawa. 
 He said the Japanese government would soon put out feelers through its embassy in Washington about whether such help would be welcomed by American regulators, who face a similarly formidable task of calculating the worth of mountains of mortgage-backed securities polluting the American financial system.
 But many Japanese say Japan's biggest contribution would be simply keeping its own economic house in order. They say it should bolster government spending to offset declines in exports to the United States, which appear to be pushing Japan's $5 trillion economy into recession. A strong economy, and Japan's relatively healthy banks, which largely avoided the subprime mess, would give the nation a new authority in global economic affairs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoichi Nakagawa, Japan's finance minister, last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BULGE BRACKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); RECESSION (72%); CURRENCIES (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); ACCOUNTING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



854 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Note

 BODY:
An article in the Itineraries pages last Tuesday reported about the increasing stress on business travelers, and cited the findings of ''Stress in America,'' an annual survey of the American Psychological Association. That survey found that economic factors were the leading causes of stress levels in 2008, but it did not say, as the article did, that ''the crisis on Wall Street was the No. 1 cause of anxiety,'' nor did participants in the survey say they felt most vulnerable to stress ''in the office and on a business trip.'' 
 The survey included data from Sept. 19 to Sept. 23, 2008, a period of volatility on Wall Street, but none of the questions in the association's survey referred to Wall Street or any economic crises. Participants were not asked how business travel affected their stress levels or where they felt most vulnerable to stress. The author of the article distorted the survey's findings to fit his theme, contrary to The Times's standards of integrity. 
 The article also quoted incorrectly from a comment by Nancy Molitor, a psychologist in Wilmette, Ill., who told the author that, ''In my 20 years of practice I've never seen such anxiety among my patients,'' not ''among my banking and business patients.'' While Dr. Molitor does have patients in banking and business, she did not single them out as being more anxious than her other patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editor's Note

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WRITERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



855 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Popularity Or Income? Two Sites Fight It Out

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In the aftermath of the dot-com bust, many chastened venture capitalists pledged never again to finance an idea scribbled on a cocktail napkin with no viable business model. Too many poorly conceived companies like Pets.com and Webvan had flamed out. The new breed of Internet start-ups needed to have a clear path to profitability. 
 The discipline did not last. Successes like YouTube, the online video site sold to Google for $1.65 billion in 2006, convinced some venture investors that building a Web site with a large number of users could still be more valuable than making money from paying customers. 
 Now, as the global economy enters a severe downturn, the relative merits of these two philosophies will be tested again. 
 The two poles of the debate are apparent in the world of microblogging, where people use the Web or their cellphones to blast short updates on their activities to a group of virtual followers. 
 Twitter, a start-up company in San Francisco that has become a household name, is the leading microblogging outfit. At least three million people have tried its free service, according to TwitDir, a directory service. But Twitter has absolutely no revenue -- not even ads.
 Yammer, a new and much smaller copycat aimed at corporate customers, has a mere 60,000 users. Unlike Twitter, its founders set out from the beginning to charge for its service. Just six weeks after its public debut, Yammer is already bringing in a modest amount of cash. 
 Twitter has drawn much attention in the tech world since the service began in 2006. When a user is logged in through the Web or a cellphone, it asks one simple question, ''What are you doing?'' Users answer in 140 characters or less. While some of these ''tweets'' have the profundity of haiku, most are mundane, like ''Sure is pretty out tonight'' or ''My eyes itch. I am very aggravated.'' 
 Yammer tweaks the question, asking, ''What are you working on?'' The goal, said its chief executive, David Sacks, is to make offices more productive. People on Yammer update colleagues on company events or ask work-related questions without clogging e-mail boxes with mass mailings. 
 Mr. Sacks said finding a way to make money was a priority for Yammer and a lesson he learned as operations chief at the online payment company PayPal after the dot-com bubble burst and the company had to make money fast. His focus on profits helped Yammer, which is based in West Hollywood, Calif., win the TechCrunch50 prize for start-ups in September. TechCrunch, a leading technology news blog that sponsored the contest, called the company ''Twitter with a business model.'' 
 Yammer's business model is compelling, Mr. Sacks said, because it spreads virally like a consumer service, but earns revenue like a business service. Anyone with a company e-mail address can use Yammer free. When that company officially joins -- which gives the administrator more control over security and how employees use the service -- it pays $1 a month for each user. In Yammer's first six weeks, 10,000 companies with 60,000 users signed up, though only 200 companies with 4,000 users are paying so far. 
 The founders and backers of Twitter, which has reportedly raised $20 million from venture capitalists, are just as adamant about their decision to grow first and monetize second. 
 Like the value of the telephone network or the Internet itself, the value of Twitter increases with the number of users. So growth is its top priority, said Evan Williams, Twitter's chief executive. ''If we spent time monetizing early on, it would have meant we weren't doing other things that made the product better for users,'' he said. Registrations have grown 600 percent over the last year. 
 However, as venture investors tell start-ups to lay off workers and become profitable to survive the economic downturn, the revenue question has taken on new urgency for Twitter. On Thursday, Twitter's board pushed aside Jack Dorsey -- the engineer who created Twitter and its former founding chief executive -- and gave the job to Mr. Williams, Twitter's chairman and a more experienced executive. 
 ''We all think Ev is a better fit to lead the company from a product perspective, an operations perspective and a business standpoint,'' said Fred Wilson, a partner at Union Square Ventures and a Twitter board member.
 Early next year, Twitter plans to introduce several ways to bring in revenue. One idea is to charge companies that want to use Twitter as an official channel to talk with their customers and monitor what they are saying.
 Although Twitter will focus on building revenue next year, Mr. Williams argues that Twitter's growth-first approach has a proved track record. 
 Mr. Williams helped found Pyra Labs, an early blog company that grew rapidly but struggled to build a healthy business before it was sold to Google for an undisclosed amount in 2003. He noted that Google itself began as a search engine with no revenue before finding the lucrative advertising model that has turned it into a business titan. 
 ''It was the classic story of not worrying about monetization yet and getting their product right,'' Mr. Williams said.
 But Joseph A. Grundfest, a former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission who now teaches venture capital at Stanford, said that most companies could not expect Google-like success. ''In my view, you at least want a theory about how you might be able to be cash-flow positive,'' he said.
 In any case, the economic crisis might leave growth-oriented companies like Twitter with little choice but to start focusing on the bottom line. 
 ''Now it doesn't matter if you want scale first because you just can't have it,'' said Paul Kedrosky, a senior fellow at the Kauffman Foundation. ''You have the luxury of being able to decide between small and focused on revenues or large when you have capital. When there isn't money, there's no choice.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Evan Williams is chief executive of Twitter, which has no revenue. David Sacks is the chief executive of Yammer, which mimics Twitter's model but is aimed at paying corporate users.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA MORISHIGE WILLIAMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); STARTUPS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); FILM (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); WEB SITES (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: IPET HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); PAYPAL INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



856 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: One Day After a Bailout, ING Sells Taiwanese Unit

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The ING Group, the Dutch financial services company, said on Monday that it would sell its Taiwan life insurance unit, a move that reduces its exposure to the industry a day after it received a capital injection from taxpayers.
 A top Taiwan financial services company, Fubon Financial Holding, will pay $600 million in shares and subordinated debt securities for the business, ING said. The deal will make ING a 5 percent shareholder in Fubon.
 The Dutch government said on Sunday that it would inject 10 billion euros, or about $13.4 billion, into ING after the company became the latest victim of the global financial crisis. 
 The capital injection, in the form of nonvoting ''core Tier 1 securities,'' will create ''a strong buffer to navigate the current market and economic environment,'' ING said. There is no maturity date on the securities, which pay 8.5 percent, and ING can convert them into common shares or buy them back at a premium.
 ING executives spent the weekend in urgent talks with the Dutch government and central bank officials concerned about the prospect the bank might collapse when trading opened Monday. Shares of ING fell more than 27 percent on Friday in Amsterdam after the company said it expected to post a third-quarter loss of 500 million euros as a result of 1.6 billion euros in write-downs. On Monday, the shares soared 23 percent in midday trading.
 The government's intervention in ING is the latest effort by national and international authorities to calm investors and keep tight credit markets from bringing economic activity to a halt. The United States has announced a $700 billion plan to bail out the American financial system, while European governments last week announced national relief packages valued at hundreds of billions of euros.
 ''Our capital position was in line with previously targeted levels and regulatory requirements,'' the chief executive and chairman of ING, Michel Tilmant, said in a statement. ''However, market conditions have changed dramatically in recent weeks and have led to an internationally recognized belief that going forward, in this market environment, capital requirements for financial institutions should be higher.''
 The bank said the transaction was structured to avoid dilution of existing shareholders. The Dutch government will obtain the right to nominate two members to the ING Group supervisory board. The board will review executive pay for senior management ''to align it with new international standards,'' the company said.
 ING has major insurance and commercial banking operations. With 338 billion euros in savings and current-account deposits at the end of last year, it is also one of the world's largest retail banks. The company said it would use the new capital to increase shareholders' equity in its banking unit by 5 billion euros and strengthen the balance sheet of ING Insurance by 2 billion euros. The other 3 billion euros will be used to pay down debt. ING said the money would raise its Tier 1 ratio -- a measure of financial strength -- to above 10 percent.
 In a conference call Monday morning, Mr. Tilmant said the capital increase was ''more than sufficient,'' and that the company had ''drawn the line'' under its needs.
 Folkert Jan van der Veer, a banking analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort in London, said he agreed that the capital position looked more comfortable. ''But given the massive uncertainties at the moment, it is hard to say whether it will be enough,'' he said. ''What we are seeing is that both regulators and investors are taking a view now that is different to the one they held before with regard to what adequate capital is.''
 Investors are ''picking on'' the least capitalized banks, he added, meaning that if rival banks keep raising monies, either from government bailouts or new investors, even banks that seem adequately financed now may need help.
 Like other European governments and the United States, the Netherlands has also explicitly backed bank loans to restore calm to the credit market. The government said it expected to guarantee loans amounting to 200 billion euros.
 As a result of the deal with Fubon, ING said it would have a book loss of 427 million euros after taxes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EURO (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); RETAIL BANKING (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (60%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); TAIWAN LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (58%); FUBON FINANCIAL HOLDINGS CO LTD (58%); ING VERZEKERINGEN NV (50%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); 2833 (TAIEX) (58%); FBND (LSE) (58%); 2881 (TAIEX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%) TAIWAN (95%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



857 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Toy Makers Report Weak Profits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Both Mattel, the world's largest toy company, and its rival Hasbro said that they could be hurt by the severity of the economic downturn as they announced their third-quarter results. 
 On Monday, Mattel posted a slightly higher third-quarter profit that still fell short of analyst expectations.
 At Mattel, quarterly profit rose less than 1 percent to $238.1 million, or 66 cents a share, from $236.8 million, or 61 cents a share, last year. 
 Analysts polled by ThomsonReuters had expected 71 cents a share. Sales rose 6 percent to $1.95 billion, helped by its Fisher-Price and American Girl brands.
 Hasbro said profit for the quarter ended Sept. 28 fell nearly 15 percent to $138.2 million, or 89 cents a share, from $161.6 million, or 95 cents a share, a year ago. 
 Excluding a tax benefit in the year-ago quarter, net income would have risen about 5 percent.
 Hasbro, based in Pawtucket, R.I., said revenue rose 7 percent to $1.30 billion, helped by its Star Wars, Playskool and Nerf toys. 
 The results topped analysts' average estimates for profit of 86 cents a share on revenue of $1.27 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (95%); HASBRO INC (95%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (95%); HAS (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (51%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



858 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Yankees and Cowboys Talk of a New Star: Food

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The news that the Yankees and the Dallas Cowboys will sell hot dogs and beer as partners in a new concessions company, Legends Hospitality, came Monday with a bonus DVD of a chat between George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, and Jerry Jones, the Cowboys' owner.
 ''It means a lot to me to be your partner, Jerry, it really does,'' said Steinbrenner, who is rarely interviewed or seen in public. ''Because I love you and I think the world of you and I think the world of your team. Between the two teams, we can really do the job.'' 
 They sat beside a table in Tampa, Fla., discussing the company, which will run the food service and retail merchandising at the teams' new stadiums, and bid on other contracts in sports and entertainment.
 ''What this is about,'' Jones said.
 ''Is for the fans,'' said Steinbrenner.
 ''That's right,'' Jones said.
 Steinbrenner, his face puffy and his eyes covered by sunglasses, said: ''You can never stop giving back to the fans. They count the most. The fans count for everything. The more you do for them, the better you're off.''
 Their 1-minute-40-second chat over, a small audience in the office applauded.
 Team news conferences are usually larded with praise for a newly acquired player or the wisdom of the latest manager. But in this version of a sports event, Randy Levine, the Yankees' president, declared that Legends would create a ''new paradigm in catering.''
 Jones, hyperbolic as always, said that Legends would bring the ''blood'' to his and the Yankees' billion-dollar stadiums that will open next year.
 (Another fluid, margaritas, will also be big in his new palace.)
 The teams vowed to rewrite the script for serving food to fans in their and other facilities, for those in the regular seats and the better-heeled ones in the luxury suites. 
 ''It's the nonsuite holders where we hope to see the biggest jump in satisfaction,'' said Mike Rawlings, the Legends chairman, and a former Pizza Hut president, who cited research saying only 31 percent of fans are satisfied with ballpark customer service.
 He promised faster service, shorter lines and hot food that will stay hot. 
 He did not say what a beer would cost the average fan but stressed how sports fans, even in a bad economy, are more concerned with quality than price.
 ''Franchise owners want happy fans,'' Rawlings said. 
 ''They want them at game day.''
 The Cowboys have run their own concessions business at Texas Stadium for 20 years, Jones said, but the Yankees had a deal with another company, Centerplate, through this past season.
 ''Our sensitivity and accountability to fans is front line,'' Jones said.
 Levine said the Yankees were not bothered by their lack of experience with the proper beer pour, the right temperature at which to serve a hot dog or how many porterhouses to order for their year-round steakhouse. 
 ''We'd never been in television,'' he said, but the YES Network is a rousing success.
 The Yankees' revenue from their new business at the $1.3 billion stadium will be subject to taxation for M.L.B. revenue sharing, as fees from Centerplate were, said Rob Manfred, an executive vice president of baseball. But if they ran the concessions for another baseball team, their profits would not be taxed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); FRANCHISING (77%); SPORTS FANS (75%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (74%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (54%)

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



859 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Post-Cyclone Aid Divides Myanmar Between the Helped and the Helpless

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SITTWE, Myanmar -- The cyclone that ravaged Myanmar's Irrawaddy Delta five months ago has led to an unexpectedly robust influx of foreign money and relief workers, showering aid on a small part of Myanmar's population but leaving other, equally desperate parts of the country to fend for themselves.
After initial resistance by Myanmar's junta just after the cyclone in May, dollars have cascaded into the delta on a scale that this country has perhaps never seen. 
Britain, the European Union, the United States and Australia -- all of which have long been considered the sworn enemies of the junta -- have led donors in a fund-raising effort that has so far provided $240 million, or about $100 for every person who survived Cyclone Nargis, an amount that the United Nations hopes to double in the coming months. The donors are leading projects to rebuild roads, schools, houses and water storage tanks destroyed or damaged during the storm.
Aid workers say they hope that this intensive effort in the delta, where only a small fraction of the country's population lives, has opened up the possibility to expanded humanitarian operations at some point. But they acknowledge that for now the generous assistance in the delta has created a stark imbalance in the country.
''There's a serious amount of money flowing into this country, and it's all for Nargis victims,'' said Frank Smithuis, head of the aid group Doctors Without Borders in Myanmar. ''That is great, but it is strange that nobody seems interested in the needs of the rest of the country.''
Outside the delta, the list of those in need of food and medical attention in Myanmar is long and distressing.
In Sittwe, a city overlooking the Bay of Bengal, a half-dozen men have as their only employment an umbrella repair business, fixing battered made-in-China models that would be tossed into the trash in neighboring countries.
A household survey carried out in June for United Nations agencies found a ''worsening and alarming economic situation'' in villages near the border with Bangladesh. With bad weather last year leading to crop failures, families cut back from three to two meals a day. Only 60 percent of boys and less than half of girls had normal body mass -- the rest were severely malnourished. And only 12 percent of households had soap.
In northern Myanmar, erstwhile opium farmers who gave up the heroin business in recent years in exchange for promises that they would be given food aid have now returned to planting opium because they are hungry, aid officials say.
Across the country, out of a quarter of a million people infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, 80,000 are in urgent need of retroviral drugs and only 15,000 will receive them, Dr. Smithuis said. ''The others will die,'' he said.
In Chin State, near the border with India, villagers are suffering what has the ring of a biblical plague. Thousands of rats, attracted to a rare blooming of bamboo flowers, have eaten through rice fields and other crops. Farmers in some villages are now living off of wild tubers in the jungle.
''The rats ate everything,'' said Pyi Kyaw, a 38-year-old villager who rowed a boat loaded with bamboo and other timber for several days downstream to exchange the wood for large bags of rice. It will take nine days to row back home against the currents, he said.
For years, Western countries were reluctant to provide aid to Myanmar for fear that it would strengthen the grip of the junta and its repressive policies. But the cyclone, which struck on May 2 and 3 and left an estimated 130,000 people dead or missing, was a turning point because Western governments believed that the plight of the victims overrode concerns about ways that the junta might benefit. Today, 26 international aid organizations are operating in one district of the Irrawaddy Delta alone.
In past years Myanmar received tiny levels of aid compared with its neighbors. In 2005, the latest year for which comparable figures are available, Myanmar received $3 per person in aid compared with $9 per capita in Bangladesh, $38 in Cambodia, $49 in Laos and $22 in Vietnam.
The quandary for aid organizations is that assistance pledged for the delta must be spent in the delta, aid workers say. The World Food Program, a United Nations agency that delivers rice, beans, cooking oil and iodized salt, is fully financed through January for victims of the cyclone. But the organization will have to cut back programs in northern areas of the country because of an immediate shortfall of $11.2 million, partly caused by the increase in global food prices.
''We haven't been able to convince donors to give us money for projects in the northern areas,'' said Chris Kaye, the head of the Myanmar operations of the World Food Program.
The cyclone has also drained resources away from areas outside the delta. Trucks, aid personnel and equipment were channeled to the cyclone-hit regions from northern areas of the country. And with an important rice-growing area in the delta damaged by the storm, the government forbade the World Food Program from buying cheaper, locally produced rice, fearing food shortages. The United Nations is now forced to buy more expensive foreign rice, further straining budgets.
In perhaps the most stark example of the imbalance between the delta and the rest of the country, impoverished villagers here along the border with Bangladesh have been forced by the government to donate money for the victims of Cyclone Nargis -- a philanthropic gesture, couched as patriotic duty, that they can hardly afford.
Like the more than 720,000 other Muslims who live in Rakhine State, a rain-soaked western corner of Myanmar, Kobi Ramau is stateless. His parents and grandparents were born here in British colonial times, but the military government does not recognize him as a citizen.
For Mr. Ramau, a farmer and father of four, life is an extreme example of the deprivation, hunger and general poverty that many people in this country face. Myanmar's military government bans him from traveling outside his district without a permit. Soldiers expropriated Mr. Ramau's land a decade ago and took his 80 buffaloes. He is now paid the equivalent of $25 a month by the military to till the land he once owned. ''They took everything,'' he said
He seems initially startled when asked what types of things he needs, if the aid flowing to the delta were to come to this part of the country.
''We need so many things,'' he said, pausing to respond. ''We have no money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A farmer passing by rice paddies in Rakhine State in western Myanmar, several hundred miles northwest of the Irrawaddy Delta. Foreign aid has flowed into the delta region, but not elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) MAP: Deprivation persists in Sittwe and other non-delta areas. Map details Sittwe, Myanmar, and other areas of Myanmar's Irrawaddy Delta. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (92%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (71%); FAMILY (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); MEN (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); HEROIN (63%); OPIUM (63%); AIDS & HIV (61%); VIRUSES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



860 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Exelon's $6.2 Billion Bid for NRG Would Create Largest Power Utility in U.S.

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Exelon Corporation's unsolicited bid to buy NRG Energy, a power generator based in Princeton, N.J., would create the largest power company in the country, in terms of assets, market capitalization and generation capacity, and would benefit shareholders of both companies, Exelon said on Monday. 
 ''There is simply no doubt that scale is important in turbulent times, and it's important as the costs of growth continue to rise,'' Exelon's chairman, John W. Rowe, told analysts in a conference call, in which he cited the current credit crisis. 
 But the deal would raise credit challenges; Exelon is assuming that because of bond covenants, sale of NRG would require Exelon to refinance $8 billion in debt and that interest rates would run into double digits. Executives held out some hope, though, that they might be able to renegotiate with the current bondholders, rather than refinance.
 The transaction would depress Exelon's credit rating but it would remain investment grade, company executives said, and would return within two or three years to its current level. 
 NRG, with 44 generating stations spread across Southern California, Texas, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New York and Connecticut, had no immediate comment except to say that it was evaluating the offer with its advisers. 
 The $6.2 billion bid is an all-stock offer, 0.485 share of Exelon for each share of NRG. The offer is a 37 percent premium over NRG's closing price last Friday, Exelon said.
 While the market tumble has lured various bargain-seekers into the utility business, one analyst on the call, Steve Fleishman, of Catapult Capital Management, said that the ratio in stock price between the two companies had not changed much between the beginning of the credit crisis and last Friday, when the offer was priced. Both prices are now depressed, according to analysts.
 Exelon, already one of the nation's largest electric companies, covers a broad swath of the Midwest and Middle Atlantic states, combining the assets of Commonwealth Edison and Philadelphia Electric. A successful deal would require Exelon to sell some assets in Texas and in the Pennsylvania or Delaware areas. But it would give the company very broad geographic diversity, Mr. Rowe said, and access to plants using a variety of fuels. 
 According to the Edison Electric Institute, the trade association of the investor-owned utilities, Exelon ranks sixth nationally in generating capacity and fourth in megawatt-hours produced; the merger would make it No. 1 in both categories. It has assets of $49.5 billion as of the end of last year, ranking third; combining with NRG's $19.3 billion in assets, it would also rank first, the institute said. 
 Exelon's operations focus heavily on nuclear- and coal-fired plants. NRG has several coal-powered plants assets in Texas, a major share of a twin-unit nuclear plant there and plants fired by natural gas and oil. 
 Joelle Frank, a spokeswoman for NRG, said the company had advised its shareholders to ''take no action, pending review by NRG's board.'' NRG has hired Citigroup and Credit Suisse to advise it, she said.
 Exelon said the combination would produce an enormous combined entity with investment-grade credit ratings and the financial strength to build new power plants. NRG ranks well for creditworthiness among independent power producers, but many experts say they think that its plan to build two new nuclear reactors adjacent to its South Texas reactors faces challenges. 
 ''NRG's South Texas Project nuclear plant and the very valuable expansion rights could be worth more in the hands of Exelon,'' said John Kiani, a senior utilities and power analyst at Deutsche Bank. 
 A year ago, NRG asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for permission to build two nuclear reactors at a site 90 miles southwest of Houston, the first time since the mid-1970s that anyone had sought permission for a new nuclear power plant in the country. Exelon is one of the nation's largest and most successful nuclear operators. But the promised resurgence of nuclear power has been thrown into some doubt because of the credit crisis. 
 Mr. Kiani said the offer ''materially undervalues'' NRG. Both NRG and Exelon have sold their output in advance and will probably realize higher cash flows once those contracts expire, he said. 
 Another looming uncertainty is regulation of carbon emissions. Exelon, anticipating such regulation, has begun a project to lower emissions substantially within its service territory by 2020, and said it would devise a similar program for NRG. NRG is part of a coalition of companies seeking such regulation. If a schedule of emission limits is imposed, that could help Exelon, which has a huge fleet of zero-carbon nuclear plants. It would also create certainty for NRG. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An NRG nuclear generating station in Bay City, Tex. NRG said it was evaluating Exelon's offer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY F. CARTER SMITH/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); BONDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); RANKINGS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: EXELON CORP (96%); EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (51%)

TICKER: EXC (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (96%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (96%)

PERSON: JOHN W ROWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



861 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Researcher Who Set Stage for a Nobel Now Lives a Life Outside Science

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
In a couple of months, Roger Y. Tsien and Martin Chalfie will head to Stockholm to collect the Nobel Prize in Chemistry and $450,000 each in prize money in recognition of their development of a revolutionary technique that lights up the inner workings of living cells. 
 Meanwhile, the scientist who provided the essential piece that made Dr. Tsien's and Dr. Chalfie's work possible -- a jellyfish gene that produces a fluorescent protein -- is out of science. 
 Douglas C. Prasher, who conducted his research on the Aequorea victoria jellyfish while at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts in the early 1990s, now drives a courtesy van for a car dealer in Huntsville, Ala., earning $10 an hour. He said he was not bitter or jealous of this year's winning chemistry Nobelists: Dr. Tsien of the University of California, San Diego, Dr. Chalfie of Columbia and Osamu Shimomura, the original discoverer of the jellyfish protein in 1961.
 Trained as a biochemist, Dr. Prasher, 57, was interested in the chemistry of how certain animals are able to glow. In the late 1980s, he applied to the National Institutes of Health for a five-year grant to track down the fluorescent protein gene. 
 Dr. Prasher said his proposal included speculation on how the fluorescent protein might be used as a beacon to light up structures in cells. ''That would have certainly been part of my research program,'' Dr. Prasher said. ''I knew it could serve as a genetic marker and it would be really, really useful, which it has turned out to be.''
 That application was turned down. A parallel proposal to the American Cancer Society succeeded, giving Dr. Prasher only two years of financing, enough time to isolate the gene, but not pursue any applications.
 By then, however, Dr. Prasher had decided that Woods Hole was not the place for him. Instead of going through the tenure process -- he thought he would be turned down, anyway -- he looked for a new job. Dr. Chalfie and Dr. Tsien independently contacted Dr. Prasher asking about the jellyfish gene. Dr. Prasher generously shared the gene with both of them.
 Dr. Prasher then worked for the United States Department of Agriculture, first on Cape Cod and later in Beltsville, Md., developing methods for identifying pests and other insects. Again, he was not happy, experiencing the beginning of bouts of depression. ''I was not happy with management there, so I looked for another position,'' he said.
 His next move was to Huntsville, where he worked for a NASA subcontractor that was developing mini-chemistry laboratories, which would be needed as health diagnostic tools for a potential human flight to Mars. Dr. Prasher loved that job, but NASA eliminated the financing for the project. For family reasons, he stayed in Huntsville, which restricted his opportunities. ''The amount of life science done here is very limited,'' he said.
 The depression returned. ''That's been a serious problem off and on, but anyone who doesn't have a job has that problem,'' Dr. Prasher said. ''If they don't, there's a problem with them. Or they're independently wealthy.''
 After a year of unemployment, he started driving the van for Bill Penney Toyota, his job for the last year and a half.
 When the Nobel in chemistry was announced two weeks ago, Dr. Prasher received some news media attention, and he said someone in Chicago who had read about him called and offered a check. ''That totally freaked me out,'' Dr. Prasher said. ''We actually had a nice conversation.''
 Dr. Prasher also said, perhaps with a bit of surprise even to himself, that he would have been uncomfortable if he had been selected as one of the Nobel winners, nudging aside one of the others. (Each Nobel traditionally is shared by no more than three people.) ''There are other people who would have deserved it a whole lot more than me,'' he said. ''They worked their butts off over their entire lives for science, and I haven't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MOVED ON: Douglas Prasher drives a courtesy van at a Toyota dealership.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN BACON/HUNTSVILLE TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (94%); CHEMISTRY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); GENETIC MARKERS (71%); CANCER (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (60%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (91%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARS (50%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



862 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Home Ec, Alive and Well

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Thriftiness on Special in Aisle 5'' (Business Day, Oct. 14): 
 Home economics is not a ''lost art.'' It is alive and well, living under the name of family and consumer sciences education.
 Every day in New York State alone, where family and consumer sciences education is mandatory at the middle-school level and an elective in high school, hundreds of thousands of students receive instruction in valuable life skills like financial literacy (budgeting and money management), nutrition (how to make healthy food choices) and consumer resource management (how to be an educated consumer). 
 For many of the reasons stated in the article and as someone studying to be a family and consumer sciences teacher, I believe that this course of study, now more than ever, should be supported and expanded in our public schools to help prepare future generations for the economic challenges we will all face.
 Betsy Jordan West Nyack, N.Y., Oct.
 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); NUTRITION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



863 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Back When the Mayor Loved Term Limits

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 2002, a prominent New Yorker's blood was boiling over an attempt in the City Council to fiddle with the city's term limits law. It was the voters who had imposed those limits in two separate referendums a few years earlier, this man said. ''I would oppose any change in the law that a legislative body tries to make,'' he said.
 Three years later, another effort was under way in the Council to monkey with the law, this time to extend the limit to three terms from two -- to 12 years from 8. The prominent New Yorker's blood was still up. 
 ''This is an outrage,'' he said in a radio interview. The people had spoken, he said. He added: ''There's no organization that I know that would put somebody in charge for a long period of time. You always want turnover and change. Eight years is great. You learn for four years. You can do for four years.''
 O.K., enough coyness. You've no doubt figured out that we're quoting Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The expressed will of the people was a matter of high principle for him.
 That was then. Now that he wants City Council members to hand him a third term through legislation -- and to treat themselves to more time in office while they're at it -- Mr. Bloomberg has redefined the concept of principle. These days, he calls it dogmatism.
 ''People that don't change their mind when the facts change are so dogmatic, they're not very practical or effective,'' he said a few days ago.
 What has changed, he says, is the turmoil in the American economy; it requires that his hand remain on the tiller an extra four years. In fact, he was thinking and winking about a third term well before the Dow Jones charts started looking like the EKG of a heart attack victim. For the mayor, principle had morphed into dogmatism quite a while ago.
 It is but one example of how, as the politicians and their allies duke it out over term limits, language as a tool to reflect reality has absorbed some of the most severe blows. On occasion, math has taken it on the chin as well.
 Take the private deal that Mr. Bloomberg reached with his fellow billionaire Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir and money man behind the local term-limits movement. In return for Mr. Lauder's keeping his mouth shut this time around, Mr. Bloomberg promised him a seat on a commission that might re-examine this issue in a couple of years. Two civic groups complained to the city's Conflicts of Interest Board that ethics laws had been violated. In the lexicon of the mayor's office, however, a reasonable query was distorted into ''a publicity stunt.''
 Omitted words also inform the debate. On Sunday, The Daily News published an opinion article supporting the mayor's grab for more time. It was written by Felix G. Rohatyn, the respected investment banker who helped bring New York back from the fiscal abyss of the 1970s.
 Mr. Rohatyn pointed out the economic mess that New York was in after the 2001 terror attacks. ''Michael Bloomberg rose to the occasion and his leadership protected the city,'' he wrote. Somehow, Mr. Rohatyn failed to note that Mr. Bloomberg was able to rise to the occasion only because of term limits. They forced out Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and foiled his own efforts to cling to office.
 At a Council hearing last week, the mayor's counselor, Anthony W. Crowell, not only omitted important words but also resorted to a bit of mathematical legerdemain. Trying to trivialize the 1996 vote that reaffirmed a limit of two terms, Mr. Crowell noted that the majority represented only 17 percent of all registered voters in the city. He neglected to mention that Mr. Bloomberg had virtually the same level of support -- 18 percent of registered voters -- when he won office in 2001.
 Memo to Mr. Crowell: Showing up is what counts in elections. Playing with percentages of registered voters is just that -- playing.
 In this debate, certain words, like ''choice,'' have been turned upside down by the mayor and his Council helpmate, the speaker Christine C. Quinn. Both characterize their campaign to strip voters of a chance to choose the future for term limits as an expansion of voter choice in the next municipal elections.
 SOME of their language is reminiscent of George Orwell's ''Animal Farm,'' in which the rulers (they happen to be the pigs) distort once-inviolable commandments. To cite one example, the edict that ''no animal shall kill any other animal'' is slyly morphed to read: ''No animal shall kill any other animal without cause.''
 A few days ago, the radio station WNYC played parts of old talks by Mr. Bloomberg, including one from 2002. Back then, the new mayor said: ''The people themselves have twice explicitly voted for term limits. We cannot ignore their will. They want the openness new faces bring. And they will get it. We will not go back.''
 In the spirit of ''Animal Farm,'' Mr. Bloomberg now in effect says: We will not go back -- to the voters to find out what they think.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); TERM LIMITS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); ETHICS (77%); REFERENDUMS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



864 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2063 words

HEADLINE: 3 OIL COUNTRIES FACE A RECKONING

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO, MICHAEL SLACKMAN and CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Simon Romero reported from Caracas; Michael Slackman from Amman, Jordan; and Clifford J. Levy from Moscow. Maria Eugenia Diaz contributed reporting from Caracas, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- As the price of oil roared to ever higher levels in recent years, the leaders of Venezuela, Iran and Russia muscled their way onto the world stage, using checkbook diplomacy and, on occasion, intimidation.
Now, plummeting oil prices are raising questions about whether the countries can sustain their spending -- and their bids to challenge United States hegemony.
For all three nations, oil money was a means to an ideological end.
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela used it to jump-start a socialist-inspired revolution in his country and to back a cadre of like-minded leaders in Latin America who were intent on eroding once-dominant American influence. 
Iran extended its influence across the Middle East, promoted itself as the leader of the Islamic world and used its petrodollars to help defy the West's efforts to block its nuclear program.
Russia, which suffered a humiliating economic collapse in the 1990s after the fall of communism, recaptured some of its former standing in the world. It began rebuilding its military, wrested control of oil and gas pipelines and pushed back against Western encroachment in the former Soviet empire.
But such ambitions are harder to finance when oil is at $74.25 a barrel, its closing price Monday in New York, than when it is at $147, its price as recently as three months ago.
That is not to say that any of the countries is facing immediate economic disaster or will abandon long-held political goals. And the price of oil, still double what was considered high just a few years ago, could always shoot back up.
Still, Russia, Iran and Venezuela have all based their spending on oil prices they thought were conservative but are now close to the market level. Significant further drops could tip the three countries into deficit spending or at least force them to choose among priorities. A worldwide recession, which many economists say is likely, would worsen matters, dampening energy demand and holding down prices.
It is not clear whether the new pressures could create opportunities for the United States to ease tensions, or whether the three countries' leaders will rely more on angry words even if they cannot afford provocative actions. Mr. Chavez has continued his overtures to Russia. He, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran may now see the United States, hobbled by financial crisis, as even more vulnerable.
Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said oil states were facing something of a reckoning. Originally, he said, they saw the economic crisis as a problem mainly for the United States -- but then oil prices went into free fall.
''Now, the producers are experiencing a reverse oil shock,'' Mr. Yergin said. ''As revenue went up, government spending went up and expectations of a continuing windfall led to greater and greater ambitions. Now they are finding how integrated they are into this globalized world.''
Venezuela
Mr. Chavez was emphatic last month when he announced that Venezuela would engage in naval exercises with the Russian Navy in the Caribbean. ''Go ahead and squeal, Yanquis,'' he said. ''Russia's naval fleet is welcome here.''
The moment, made possible in part by a flood of petrodollars used to buy Russian weaponry, must have been sweet for a man who has spent his presidency wagging his finger at the United States and railing against its capitalist model. Cozying up to Russia, whose leaders have been increasingly at odds with the United States, evoked cold war rivalries in the hemisphere.
Mr. Chavez has also used his oil money -- in direct payments and through subsidized oil shipments -- to win friends in the hemisphere and elsewhere, including President Evo Morales of Bolivia, who expelled the United States ambassador in La Paz last month, saying the envoy was involved in plotting a coup.
Domestic spending in Venezuela has also surged, through the creation of a wide array of social welfare programs that furthered Mr. Chavez's goal of building a socialist-inspired state -- and suppressed opposition. The 2009 budget, based on $60-a-barrel oil, includes a 23 percent increase in government spending, to $78.9 billion.
At $140 a barrel for oil, that was conservative. With prices now uncomfortably close to $60 a barrel, economists in Venezuela are expressing alarm over the government's ability to pay its bills, including those for arms purchases.
Venezuelans are already struggling with an inflation rate of 36 percent, one of the highest in the world.
Mr. Chavez said on Saturday that the country could endure any oil price decline, citing its $40 billion in foreign currency reserves, though he then qualified his remarks by saying that oil prices at $80 to $90 a barrel would be sufficient for his plans.
Still, fears of an impending economic crisis in Venezuela are increasing because of a lack of transparency in public finances and because the economy has grown far more dependent on oil in the decade Mr. Chavez has been in power, with seizures of rural estates weakening agricultural output and nationalizations scaring away foreign investors.
''This country will be paralyzed because it is so dependent on petroleum,'' said Oscar Garcia Mendoza, president of Banco Venezolano de Credito, a private bank.
Anxiety over the economy already helped lead to a sell-off of Venezuelan government bonds, sharply limiting the country's borrowing options.
Last week, Venezuela's embassy in Nicaragua said the Caracas government would postpone construction of a $4 billion oil refinery there. And the national oil company announced that it would tighten the terms for subsidizing oil exports to some Caribbean countries.
''We're in the same situation of people who have lost a limb but can still feel it,'' said Ricardo Hausmann, a Venezuelan economist who teaches at Harvard. ''I don't know how long it will take for Chavez to realize he's lost a limb.''
Iran
When President Ahmadinejad presented his budget to Parliament in 2007, the United Nations Security Council had already imposed economic sanctions on Iran because of its nuclear program. The president said it did not matter.
''Even if they issue 10 more such resolutions,'' he said, ''it will not affect Iran's economy and politics.''
He was partly right. It hardly affected Iran's politics. There was another resolution two months later, and another a year later -- and still, Iran augmented its nuclear program, even as its economy was squeezed.
One of the main reasons it was able to endure the economic punishment was the price of oil. Iran has the second largest known conventional crude oil reserves in the world, and it has used them in the past four years as a political and economic weapon to defy and undermine the West while promoting its own agenda.
Oil money helped Iran spread its influence in Iraq. Oil money helped it challenge Arab political dominance in the Middle East. Oil money helped spread its influence in Lebanon, through Hezbollah, and in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, through Hamas.
At home, oil money allowed Iran's ideological hard-liners to preserve their monopoly on power, to buy political allegiances and to offset the fiscal damage of their economic policies. All that may now have to be recalibrated.
''The drop in oil prices will make the Iranian regime re-examine its calculations because its political immunity is less,'' said Mustafa El-Labbad, director of the East Center for Regional and Strategic Studies, an independent research center in Cairo. ''Their regional presence and role will shrink.''
Even before the global economic crisis undercut the price of oil, Iran was gripped by an economic crisis. Now, inflation is running at 30 percent, according to the Central Bank. And this month, bazaar merchants, who wield significant political power, went on strike after the government imposed a value-added tax.
Mr. Ahmadinejad's way of dealing with the general economic distress has been to increase government spending, primarily through imports. But the International Monetary Fund said in August that Iran would face unsustainable deficits should prices for its oil fall to $75 a barrel.
It is not expected that economics will force Iran to change its underlying ideology or long-term goals. Still, if prices stay depressed for long, it could mean a greater willingness in Tehran to find a compromise on the nuclear issue and, perhaps, a political shift that left Mr. Ahmadinejad vulnerable in June's presidential election, analysts said.
''The government has distributed money and has encouraged spending,'' said Saeed Leylaz, an economist and political analyst in Tehran. ''It has given high salaries to its own supporters. They have increased their expectations, and there is no way they can give them less now without making them unhappy. If the government fails to respond to their expectations, it might lead to a crisis.''
Russia
On a winter day in 2006, Russia suddenly cut off the supply of natural gas to Ukraine, where a pro-Western government had come to power. The Kremlin cited a dispute over prices. But some Western officials said Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's president at the time and still its paramount leader, was sending a message: Russia was willing to use its vast energy reserves to try to reassert the dominance it lost with the Soviet Union's collapse.
Two months ago, the muted reaction of some European nations to Russia's invasion of Georgia seemed to indicate that Mr. Putin's policy was working, some foreign policy analysts said. Europe had become dependent on Russia's gas and could not afford to mount a strong challenge, they said.
Now, however, with gas prices tumbling, this strategy has been thrown into question. Europeans may no longer be as intimidated, knowing that Russia is less able to pressure its customers.
''The more other countries are nervous about their energy security, the better Russia is geopolitically,'' said Peter Halloran, chief executive of Pharos Financial Group, an investment fund based in Moscow.
Still, at least in terms of its domestic economy, Mr. Halloran and other experts said Russia was better positioned to weather lower prices than were many other oil and gas producers, because it had adopted conservative fiscal practices in recent years.
The country deposited a significant portion of its oil revenues into two stabilization funds, which totaled $190 billion at the beginning of this month. The Russian budget is pegged to an oil price of roughly $70 a barrel -- most revenues exceeding that have gone to these so-called rainy-day funds.
The Kremlin also succeeded in recent years in establishing control over many of the pipelines that transport oil and gas in the region -- an achievement that will endure despite the lower prices.
The Kremlin has started tapping into its stabilization funds to prop up the banking industry and the stock market, which has been hard hit by the international financial crisis, dropping by more than two-thirds since May. The government may also rescue many of Russia's oligarchs, the industrial magnates who were thriving with the high price of natural resources but have now been suffering steep losses.
These bailouts, combined with declining oil and gas revenues, could make it difficult for the Kremlin to carry out plans to modernize the country's aging infrastructure, from highways to schools, and still promote Russian ambitions abroad.
Even so, opposition politicians in Russia said they did not perceive sagging prices as undermining Mr. Putin's power.
''I think that it's too early,'' said Grigory A. Yavlinsky, an opposition leader. ''The crisis at the moment is not related to the population enough. The banks are still open, and unemployment is not yet going higher. It's a threat, but it's only a potential threat.''
Correction: October 24, 2008, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about the effect of plummeting oil prices on Venezuela, Russia and Iran, which are heavily dependent on oil exports, referred imprecisely to the relative size of Iran's oil reserves. While Iran ranks second to Saudi Arabia when measured by conventional reserves of crude oil, Canada ranks second when its vast oil sands resources are included. (Iran ranks third under those circumstances.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Presidents Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, left, and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela met Sept. 28 in Orenburg, Russia. Their countries plan joint naval exercises. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY ASTAKHOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(A12) CHART: A Problem for Oil Producers: A slide in oil prices has caused problems for oil producers that were banking on higher prices. For example, Venezuela's 2009 budget was based on $60-a-barrel oil and Russia's was pegged to roughly $70. (Source: Bloomberg)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (73%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); RELIGION (54%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (61%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (78%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



865 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Alternative Energy Suddenly Faces Headwinds

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
For all the support that the presidential candidates are expressing for renewable energy, alternative energies like wind and solar are facing big new challenges because of the credit freeze and the plunge in oil and natural gas prices.
 Shares of alternative energy companies have fallen even more sharply than the rest of the stock market in recent months. The struggles of financial institutions are raising fears that investment capital for big renewable energy projects is likely to get tighter.
 Advocates are concerned that if the prices for oil and gas keep falling, the incentive for utilities and consumers to buy expensive renewable energy will shrink. That is what happened in the 1980s when a decade of advances for alternative energy collapsed amid falling prices for conventional fuels.
 ''Everyone is in shock about what the new world is going to be,'' said V. John White, executive director of the Center for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Technology, a California advocacy group. ''Surely, renewable energy projects and new technologies are at risk because of their capital intensity.'' 
 Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain both promise ambitious programs to develop various kinds of alternative energy to combat global warming and achieve energy independence. 
 Mr. Obama talks of creating five million new jobs in renewable energy and nearly tripling the percentage of the nation's electricity supplied by renewables by 2025. Mr. McCain has run television advertisements showing wind turbines and has pledged to make the United States the ''leader in a new international green economy.''
 But after years of rapid growth, the sudden headwinds facing renewables point to slowing momentum and greater dependence on government subsidies, mandates and research financing, at a time when Washington is overloaded with economic problems.
 John Woolard, chief executive officer of BrightSource Energy, a solar company, said he believed the long-term future for renewables remained promising, though ''right now we are looking at tumultuous and unpredictable capital markets.''
 Venture capital financing for some advanced solar projects and for experimental biofuels, like ethanol made from plant wastes, is drying up, according to analysts who track investment flows. 
 At least two wind energy companies have had to delay projects in recent days because of trouble raising capital. Several corn ethanol projects have been delayed for lack of financing in Iowa and Oklahoma since last month, and one plant operator in Ohio filed for bankruptcy protection last week. 
 Tesla Motors, the maker of battery-powered cars, recently announced it had been forced to delay production of its all-electric Model S sedan, close two offices and lay off workers.
 Investment analysts say initial and secondary stock offerings by clean energy companies across global markets have slowed to a crawl since the spring, and for the full year could total less than half of the record $25.4 billion for 2007.
 Worldwide project financings for new construction of wind, solar, biofuels and other alternative energy projects this year fell to $17.8 billion in the third quarter, from $23.2 billion in the second quarter, according to New Energy Finance, a research firm in London. The slide is expected to be sharper in the fourth quarter and next year.
 In the United States, financing for new projects and venture capital and private equity investments in renewable energy this year might still top last year's results because so much money was in the pipeline at the beginning of the year, but the pace has slowed sharply in the last month.
 The next presidential administration, to make good on campaign rhetoric and continue supporting renewables, will have to choose alternative energy over other programs at a time of ballooning deficits. Analysts say that is no sure thing.
 ''Government funding for renewables is now going to have to compete with levels of government funding in other areas that were unimaginable six months ago,'' Mark Flannery, an energy analyst for Credit Suisse, said. 
 The central questions facing renewables now, experts say, are how long credit will be tight and how low oil and natural gas prices will fall. Oil and gas are still relatively expensive by historical standards, but the prices have fallen by half since July. Some economists expect further declines as the economy weakens.
 Wall Street analysts say most utilities and other builders can profitably choose big wind projects over gas-fired plants only when gas prices are $8 per thousand cubic feet or higher. Natural gas settled Monday at about $6.79 per thousand cubic feet, down from about $13.58 on July 3.
 ''Natural gas at $6 makes wind look like a questionable idea and solar power unfathomably expensive,'' said Kevin Book, a senior vice president at FBR Capital Markets.
 Government mandates already on the books, including state rules requiring renewable power generation and federal requirements for production of ethanol, ensure that to some degree, alternative energy markets will continue to exist no matter how low oil and gas prices go. But the credit crisis means some companies that would like to build facilities to meet that demand are going to have problems. ''If you can't borrow money, you can't develop renewables,'' Mr. Book said.
 Renewable energy now meets 7 percent of the nation's energy needs, and public subsidies have promoted a leap for several alternative energy sources in recent years. 
 Ethanol is sold nationwide as a gasoline additive, and federal legislation aims to replace a major share of the oil now imported into the United States with domestically produced biofuels in the next 15 years. Enough new wind power was installed in the United States to serve the equivalent of 4.5 million households in 2007, the third year in a row the country led all nations in new wind power. 
 Renewable energy has become a big business worldwide, with total investment increasing to $148.4 billion last year, from $33.4 billion in 2004, according to Ethan Zindler, head of North American research at New Energy Finance. Mr. Zindler said the upward momentum had halted, and that total investment this year was likely to be lower than last. 
 In the 1970s, just as in recent years, high prices for fossil fuels led to rising interest in renewables. But when oil prices collapsed in the 1980s, the nascent market for renewable energy fell apart, too. Congress eliminated tax credits for solar energy, ethanol could not compete with cheap gasoline and a wind farm boomlet in California failed to catch on in the rest of the country.
 The epicenter of investment and development moved to Europe, with its strong government support for renewables, and began shifting back only when heating oil and natural gas prices shot up again in recent years.
 There are some differences this time. Coal, another major competitor of renewables, remains expensive and is facing increasing scrutiny over environmental concerns. 
 Most important, renewable energy entrepreneurs and experts say, is the growing government and public backing for renewable energy in the United States.
 ''What is driving the market this time is that we're at war and this is a security issue,'' said Arnold R. Klann, chief executive of BlueFire Ethanol, a California company that is planning to make ethanol out of garbage with the help of $40 million in financing from the Energy Department.
 In its recent financial rescue package, Congress provided $17 billion in tax credits to promote various forms of clean power, for everything from plug-in electric vehicles to projects that will capture and store carbon dioxide from coal-burning power plants. Production and investment tax credits were extended for wind energy for one year, geothermal energy for two years and for solar energy for a full eight years. 
 Meanwhile more than 30 states have enacted standards demanding that utilities generate a minimum proportion -- typically 10 to 20 percent -- of their power from renewable sources in the next 5 to 10 years. 
 But some analysts say the government supports may not be enough to propel continued growth for renewables, noting that several states have already relaxed their goals.
 ''When they can't meet their targets,'' Mr. Book said, ''they change them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suzlon Energy turbines on a wind farm near a road in Spanish Fork, Utah.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Heliostats redirect sunrays to a tower in Seville, Spain. Energy created at the plant provides electricity to thousands of homes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKEL REDONDO/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); BIOMASS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); ETHANOL (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: BRIGHTSOURCE ENERGY INC (58%); TESLA MOTORS INC (51%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221114 SOLAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



866 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Financial Straits of Boosters Hit Athletic Programs

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE and THAYER EVANS

 BODY:
Nearly three years ago, the billionaire oilman T. Boone Pickens donated $165 million to Oklahoma State's athletic department so it could remake its facilities into a Shangri-La for Cowboys sports, complete with an indoor practice center and new facilities for baseball, equestrian, soccer, tennis, and track and field. Pickens was so true to his school that he also allowed Oklahoma State to take out a $10 million insurance policy on his life.
 Those funds, along with $37 million from other donors, were invested in BP Capital Management, a hedge fund controlled by Pickens. At the time, it looked like a windfall that would keep on giving. Instead, Pickens recently acknowledged that his investments had lost $1 billion this year amid the financial crisis.
 Now, building on Oklahoma State's athletic village has been held up, and the athletic director, Mike Holder, said the project would have to wait until Pickens's financial situation improved. Holder and a spokesman for BP Capital declined to disclose the current value of the university's investment in Pickens's hedge fund. 
 Oklahoma State is hardly alone in watching its soaring ambitions crash back to earth with the fortunes of some of its biggest benefactors.
 When Aubrey K. McClendon, the chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, recently announced that he had to sell some 32 million shares, or more than 5 percent of the company he founded, worth nearly $600 million, athletic officials at the University of Oklahoma were rattled. The bankruptcy proceedings of another energy company, SemGroup, has brought unwanted attention to the University of Kansas, where the company's ousted co-founder, Tom Kivisto, had pledged $12 million for a recently opened football complex.
 Like the chief executives on Wall Street, leaders of collegiate athletic programs must acknowledge that the boom days of fund-raising have given way to belt-tightening.
 ''Adjustments have to take place and look bleak in the short term,'' said Joe Castiglione, Oklahoma's athletic director.
 In 2006-7, for example, the nation's largest athletics departments and booster clubs raised more than $1.2 billion, according to a survey by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Some programs have more than tripled their annual gifts over the past 10 years. From 2002 to 2007, colleges in the six Bowl Championship Series conferences raised more than $3.9 billion through capital campaigns for new facilities, according to the survey.
 Last May, McClendon and his wife, Kathleen, pledged $7 million to build a boathouse on the Oklahoma River for the women's rowing team and a housing facility near Memorial Stadium. Castiglione said he had spoken with McClendon, but he declined to say whether McClendon had given Oklahoma the money or intended to. Through a spokesman, McClendon declined to comment.
 ''It makes us concerned for everybody,'' Castiglione said. ''It's something that we have to watch for everybody, because it's hitting people in ways they could have never predicted.''
 Even the University of Texas, which has the nation's top-ranked football team, is bracing for a downturn despite raising $35 million last year through annual giving, suites and premium seating. It also has a $29 million athletic endowment. 
 DeLoss Dodds, the university's longtime athletic director, recalled the perilous times that followed the 1987 stock-market crash.
 ''We worked with people,'' he said. ''We absolutely worked with them on whatever commitments they were making or had been making. 
 ''When things go bad and things get tough, people have to do realistic things, and we help them do that.''
 It is perhaps never as bad in Texas than it is in the rest of the country, because love for the Longhorns runs deep and backing them conveys a tremendous status. So Dodds said he was in no hurry to call in the commitments currently on the books, and he had a pretty good idea of how the penny-pinching would play out.
 ''We'll probably see it first in baseball, maybe, and then maybe in basketball,'' he said. ''We've lost a couple of suite holders in basketball, and I think the economy is part of the reason there. I think people will hold on to their football stuff as long as they can.''
 Beyond patience, the ensuing months and years will also require diplomacy from athletic fund-raisers as they soothe the bruised egos of deep-pocketed donors, many of them who are enduring public embarrassment.
 Not all of the nation's major boosters have the financial wherewithal or the elan of Pickens, whose book, ''The First Billion is the Hardest,'' is a national best seller. 
 His spokesman, Jay Rosser, said Pickens had so far given more than $700 million to a variety of causes in the past five years.
 ''He looks forward to having a party to celebrate giving away $1 billion,'' Rosser said. ''Unfortunately, the economic downturn has hit everyone hard, and Boone hasn't been immune. The chance of a party this year is next to none. 
 ''Hopefully, the markets will improve soon and Boone can get back to the business of giving serious money. Boone likes making money, and he likes to give it away.''
 Kivisto, a former basketball star for Kansas, was removed as the chief executive of SemGroup in July and put on leave. Last week, Louis J. Freeh, the former F.B.I director, was appointed by a bankruptcy court to sort out how the company lost $2.4 billion on the New York Mercantile Exchange and to look into allegations that Kivisto's personal trading company in the oil futures market incurred $290 million of the losses.
 It is unclear, however, if Kivisto has made good on the $12 million commitment to Kansas athletics. In 2006, the athletic department acknowledged that Kivisto had contributed $4 million and committed an additional $8 million to a new football complex. 
 It coincided with an announcement that the field inside Memorial Stadium would be renamed in his honor.
 Lew Perkins, director of athletics at Kansas, said it was his policy not to publicly discuss the specifics about donors or donations. 
 ''I will say that Tom has been a friend of this university for a long time,'' he said. ''He has done everything for us and beyond.''
 Ultimately, however, it takes trust and toughness on the part of the benefactor and the athletic department to weather tight times. In the case of Oklahoma State and T. Boone Pickens, a sense of humor helps.
 ''Sure you're concerned about your investments, but I like the person we're investing with,'' Holder said. ''I guess the good news is he had a billion dollars to lose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The athletic director Mike Holder, T. Boone Pickens, and the Oklahoma State president, David J. Schmidly, after announcing Pickens's $165 million donation to the university in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES GIBBARD/THE TULSA WORLD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); ROWING (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SOCCER (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); BOATING & RAFTING (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (63%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (57%)

COMPANY: SEMGROUP CORP (54%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (54%)

TICKER: SEMG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486910 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS486110 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF CRUDE OIL (54%); NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (54%); NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (54%)

PERSON: AUBREY K MCCLENDON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (97%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



867 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Billionaires Opposing Bloomberg

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and MICHAEL BARBARO; Sewell Chan, David W. Chen and Jonathan P. Hicks contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A pair of billionaires on Monday threatened to imperil Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's bid to revise the city's term limits law, just days before a possible vote on the measure by the City Council.
 Tom Golisano, the owner of the Buffalo Sabres and a political and philanthropic force in western New York, said on Monday that he would finance an advertising campaign to fight Mr. Bloomberg's plan, which would allow the mayor, council members and other city officials to seek another four-year term next fall.
 Meanwhile, the cosmetics heir Ronald S. Lauder, whose support Mr. Bloomberg has carefully cultivated, signaled in an interview that he would vigorously oppose allowing council members now serving their first term to remain in office for three terms. It was his finances and advocacy that led to the establishment of term limits, in 1993 and 1996 referendums. 
 Mr. Lauder's position, and the implied threat behind it, could make it harder for the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, to round up enough votes to change the law. 
 In exchange for his support of the mayor's plan, which would apply to all officials elected citywide and to council members, Mr. Bloomberg has promised Mr. Lauder a seat on a charter revision commission that would consider the question of term limits. Mr. Lauder said he would push to return the limits to two terms in a subsequent referendum, likely in 2010. 
 That would mean that any freshmen council members who support Mr. Bloomberg's proposal to extend term limits could not take advantage of it themselves and run for a third term.
 ''I don't think they should be under the illusion that somebody can make a provision that gives them an automatic third term,'' Mr. Lauder said of the freshmen council members. ''I think they should vote for the extension regardless.''
 The votes of freshman members could be critical in deciding the outcome of the mayor's legislation, and aides to Ms. Quinn have been reassuring wavering freshmen that they will be given an exception if term limits are restored to two terms later. Mr. Lauder's remarks cast doubt on that assurance, though.
 The Council could vote as early as Thursday on the mayor's bill, but as of Monday no vote had been scheduled. 
 Supporters of the mayor's plan played down the lack of a scheduled vote, saying the measure could still be added to the agenda, while opponents read it as an indication that the mayor has not gathered sufficient votes for passage.
 As lobbying continued on both sides Monday, Mr. Golisano held a news conference in Lower Manhattan to announce his campaign against the legislation, with newspaper ads that he said would begin Wednesday. 
 Mr. Golisano, whose net worth is estimated at $1.6 billion, refused to specify how much he planned to spend on the campaign, which will include newspaper, radio and television ads. He said, however, that he was ready to push beyond that and use part of his fortune to finance the political campaigns next year of Council candidates who challenge incumbents who voted for the mayor's bill.
 He also did not rule out helping to pay for a legal challenge to Mr. Bloomberg's legislation, if it is approved. Mr. Golisano praised the mayor but insisted that term limits must be decided by the voters. 
 ''It makes sense for supporters to want him back,'' Mr. Golisano said of Mr. Bloomberg. ''On the other hand, the people have spoken twice -- 1993 and 1996 -- through public referendum.'' 
 He added: ''They do want term limits for City Council and mayor. Now is there anything more democratic than the people making this decision? Now the City Council wants to violate the will of the people.''
 Mr. Golisano said that he had not discussed the details of his campaign with Mr. Bloomberg, Ms. Quinn or any of their aides, and that it would operate independently from an effort run by the union-backed Working Families Party, which is mobilizing voters to persuade their council members to vote down the mayor's bill.
 Speaking at a public event in Queens, Mr. Bloomberg sounded at once welcoming and dismissive of Mr. Golisano's efforts, saying: ''If he spends a lot of money in New York City, I think it's wonderful. The advertising business isn't that good at the moment.''
 Later, a spokesman for the mayor declined to comment on Mr. Lauder's position. 
 The announcements capped another busy day of developments on a divisive debate over whether the global economic crisis that threatens to upend the city's finances is enough to justify overturning two popular referendums. 
 Inside City Hall, the Council's Democratic caucus, comprising 48 of the body's 51 members, held one of its shortest recent meetings and disbanded without picking a definite date to vote on the mayor's bill. Speaker Quinn, who recently announced her support of Mr. Bloomberg's plan to extend term limits, said only that she was not sure when the vote would be held, according to those in attendance. 
 On the steps of City Hall, Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, which represents the city's uniformed police officers, announced the group's endorsement of the mayor's legislation, saying that Mr. Bloomberg had ''come to our aid'' on a variety of urgent issues, like equipping officers with new bulletproof vests. 
 ''We have a mantra of supporting those who supported us in the past,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 The association, which recently reached a contract agreement with the Bloomberg administration that would give its members annual 4 percent raises over four years, was the latest municipal workers' union to throw its support behind the mayor's plan. 
 At the urging of Mr. Bloomberg's aides, the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association, the Uniformed Fire Officers Association and the Detectives' Endowment Association, among others, have announced their support for the mayor's plan. 
 On the other side, S.E.I.U. 1199, the largest health care workers' union in the state, came out against Mr. Bloomberg's proposal, saying term limits should be changed only through a referendum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald S. Lauder 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO SABRES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



868 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: This Bailout Doesn't Pay Dividends

BYLINE: By DAVID S. SCHARFSTEIN and JEREMY C. STEIN. 
David S. Scharfstein is a professor of finance at Harvard Business School. Jeremy C. Stein is a professor of economics at Harvard.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 ON Oct. 13, the chief executives of nine large American banks were called to a meeting at the Treasury Department. At the meeting, Secretary Henry Paulson offered them $125 billion from the federal government in exchange for shares of preferred stock. The chief executives accepted his terms. In some accounts of the meeting, Secretary Paulson is described as playing the role of the Godfather, making the banks an offer they could not refuse. But in one important respect, he was more Santa Claus than Vito Corleone: the agreement allowed the banks to continue paying dividends to common shareholders. 
 Although there are many things to like about the government's plan, the failure to suspend dividends is not one of them. These dividends, if they are paid at current levels, will redirect more than $25 billion of the $125 billion to shareholders in the next year alone. Taxpayers have been told that their money is required because of an urgent need to rebuild bank capital, yet a significant fraction of this money will wind up in shareholders' pockets -- and thus be unavailable to plug the large capital hole on the banks' balance sheets. 
 Moreover, given their own equity stakes, the officers and directors of the nine banks will be among the leading beneficiaries of the dividend payout. We estimate that their personal take of the dividends will amount to approximately $250 million in the first year. 
 Bank executives may argue that it is necessary for them to maintain dividend payments to support their stock prices and to make further capital-raising possible. This argument is dubious. In recent years, the fraction of American public companies that pay dividends has fallen drastically, to a level of around 20 percent. The ranks of the companies that do not pay dividends include some of the most profitable and (until recently) best-performing market darlings, like Google.
 These companies have come to recognize what finance academics have been preaching for decades: for financially healthy firms, there is no particular imperative to pay dividends every quarter, because retained cash can always be paid out to shareholders later, or used to repurchase stock. 
 So why would the banks want to maintain large dividend payouts when they've had such a hard time borrowing, are starved of cash, and the credit markets believe that they run a significant risk of defaulting? Shouldn't these distressed banks be marshalling all of the financial resources available to them to ensure their viability? 
 Although dividends should be a matter of near indifference to shareholders of healthy companies, when companies are financially distressed there is a conflict of interest between shareholders and bondholders that leads shareholders to prefer immediate payouts.
 Here's why: Each dollar paid out as a dividend today is a dollar that cannot be seized by creditors in the event of bankruptcy. For a distressed company, dividends are not in the interest of the enterprise as a whole (shareholders and lenders taken together), but only in the interest of shareholders. They are an attempt by shareholders to beat creditors out the door.
 The government should close the door by putting an immediate stop to the dividend payouts of any banks receiving direct federal support. The purpose is not just to be fair or to avoid unsavory appearances, but to improve the health of the banks and the economy. 
 There is ample precedent for such a move by the government. When Chrysler was bailed out with government loan guarantees in 1979, the legislation explicitly prohibited Chrysler from making any dividend payments. All dividends on its common shares were suspended from 1980 to 1983. 
 If the government is unwilling to take this step, then the boards of the banks should take it upon themselves to do the right thing. They may even have a legal obligation to do so, because courts have ruled that directors of financially distressed firms have a fiduciary duty to creditors as well as to shareholders. 
 The creditors of the banks include not just those who have already lent them money, but also American taxpayers who put their money on the line by guaranteeing the banks' debts. From the perspective of this broader set of stakeholders, it is best to end dividend payments until the banks have returned to health. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); BONDS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



869 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Legislators, Debating Policy on Militants, Show Little Appetite for a Fight

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Salman Masood contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
An unusual parliamentary debate organized to forge a national policy on how to fight the Taliban and Al Qaeda has exposed deep ambivalence about the militants, even as their reach extends to suicide attacks in the capital.
 In one of his first initiatives as president, Asif Ali Zardari called the session in an effort to mobilize Pakistan's political parties and its public to support the fight against the militants, which he has now called Pakistan's war.
 But instead, the nearly two weeks of closed sessions have been dominated by calls for dialogue with the Taliban and peppered with opposition to what lawmakers condemned as a war foisted on Pakistan by the United States, according to participants.
 The tenor of the debate has highlighted the difficulties facing Mr. Zardari and Washington as they urgently try to focus Pakistan's full attention on the militant threat at a time when the Pakistani military is locked in heavy fighting in the tribal areas. 
 Mr. Zardari's predecessor, Pervez Musharraf, who was long both president and leader of the army, never consulted Parliament, and he as well as the fight against the militants came to be seen as tools of American policy and grew increasingly unpopular.
 By contrast, Mr. Zardari, as the newly elected leader of Pakistan's fledgling civilian government, will need the backing of Parliament and the public if he is to live up to his pledge to fight terrorism, which he made during a visit to Washington this month.
 But the parliamentary proceedings, which included criticism of a lengthy military briefing by a senior general on the conduct of the war, showed that the political elites had little stomach for battling the militants.
 In one sign, Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the opposition party, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, sent a letter on Monday to the prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, calling for dialogue with the militants. The letter suggested a halt in military operations while negotiations were given a chance, according to Ahsan Iqbal, an aide to Mr. Sharif.
 In an interview last week, Mr. Sharif said, ''What is wrong with talking?'' 
 He said a distinction had to be made between the Taliban, whose members could be talked to, and Al Qaeda, whose adherents could not. A national committee should be formed to decide whom Pakistan should negotiate with, Mr. Sharif said. 
 Differentiating between the two groups was one of the themes of the debate, according to participants, on the grounds that Qaeda members are outsiders to Pakistan and the Taliban are mostly Pashtuns living in Pakistan's tribal areas.
 Even the suicide bomb attack on the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, which killed more than 50 people last month, did not provide much of a call to arms. ''I thought the Marriott would change everyone's attitude, but it has not,'' said Farook Saleem, a newspaper columnist who supports fighting the militants.
 The speeches in Parliament expressed so much opposition to fighting the militants that it was doubtful that the governing Pakistan Peoples Party could engineer an ''appropriate resolution,'' said Sardar Aseff Ahmed Ali, a senior member of the party and a former foreign minister.
 A religious party, the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazl, part of the coalition with the Pakistan Peoples Party, voiced particularly strong opposition to the war against the militants, Mr. Ali said.
 ''They want the army to pull out of everything and start talks with the militants in North and South Waziristan, in Swat,'' Mr. Ali said. The army is fighting the Taliban in Swat, a settled region of the North-West Frontier Province, and has fought the Taliban in Waziristan, an area of the tribal belt, which borders the province.
 It is possible, Mr. Ali said, that the divergent opinions within the coalition will produce a parliamentary resolution that is ''so hugely diluted that the whole exercise is left futile.''
 Behind the scenes, the idea of a parliamentary debate was encouraged by the leader of the Pakistani Army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as a way to garner political support for the military efforts, according to two Pakistanis familiar with his thinking.
 The Pakistani military began a campaign against the Taliban and its Qaeda backers in the tribal area of Bajaur two months ago, an effort that American commanders have applauded as a way to stop the militants from crossing into Afghanistan and attacking American forces.
 At a news conference in Islamabad on Monday, the assistant secretary of state for South Asian affairs, Richard A. Boucher, called the ''tough actions'' of the Pakistanis ''very impressive.''
 At a cabinet meeting attended by General Kayani in late July, the civilian government gave the military permission for operations against the militants.
 But General Kayani was eager for a parliamentary debate that would show that the army was responding to civilian government, according to the Pakistanis who spoke to General Kayani.
 In that vein, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, the director general of military operations for the Pakistani Army, who has been selected to lead the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency, briefed a joint session of Parliament two weeks ago. The presence of a senior general before Parliament was viewed in much of the Pakistani news media as an encouraging, if small, sign of civilian control of the military.
 Over four hours, General Pasha described what the army had done in campaigns against militants over seven years, showed images of militants slaughtering civilians, and said more than 1,500 Pakistani soldiers had died in the operations, according to Parliament members.
 But the briefing was poorly received by politicians, who said it revealed little that was new. Lawmakers also criticized General Pasha for not offering a strategy for the future.
 Attendance was also poor. The Senate and the National Assembly comprise 442 members, but on one day last week only 40 were on hand, and the speaker, Fahmida Mirza, admonished the politicians for being so desultory.
 President Zardari was away on a trip to China last week, and his absence appeared, symbolically at least, to undermine the debate.
 Also absent were the minister of defense, Ahmad Mukhtar, and the senior adviser to the Interior Ministry, Rehman Malik, both major figures in the effort against terrorism, who accompanied Mr. Zardari in China. The national security adviser, Mahmud Ali Durrani, was on a trip to India.
 In their speeches, the politicians stressed the need for a negotiated settlement with the Taliban, said Jehangir Tareen, the leader of a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League.
 In its precarious economic situation, with dwindling foreign exchange reserves and high inflation, Pakistan cannot afford a continuing battle against the militants, which has driven away foreign investment, he said.
 ''The sense of the house is that there is no military solution to this,'' Mr. Tareen said. ''This is not a war we want to be part of. There is a sentiment that we are being pushed to do all this by the United States. We want this war to end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani Army forces in a village in the Swat region on Oct. 6 after securing it from militants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHERIN ZADA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); POLITICS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); WRITERS (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



870 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: In Hollywood, the Wall St. Plots Will Thicken

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Just a few months ago, Lifetime Television started adapting the Candace Bushnell novel ''Trading Up'' into a movie, figuring an aspirational story about the entitled rich and their limousine culture nailed the cultural moment.
The setting would be New York, of course -- or, as it is described by Ms. Bushnell, a city where ''the streets seemed to sparkle with the gold dust filtered down from a billion trades in a boomtown economy.''
Time for a rewrite.
Suddenly, across Hollywood, the stock market is not such a sexy subject anymore -- at least not in a yearning sense. ''Overnight, it was like the script had been written two years ago,'' said Arturo Interian, Lifetime's vice president for original movies. Mr. Interian is still keen on the movie, with one major revision: fewer discussions about stock, more about playing it safe with bonds. And how about throwing in a pariah chief executive? 
As they have watched their 401(k)'s shrivel in recent weeks, entertainment executives have started to grapple with how best to reflect the global economic crisis in movie and television story lines, or whether to bring the topic up at all.
The last time Wall Street stumbled badly -- when the high-tech bubble burst -- Hollywood delivered movies like ''Antitrust,'' featuring a Bill Gates-styled villain who literally kills for profits, and small-budget efforts like ''Boiler Room,'' about soul-destroying stock hustlers.
Not long after the 1987 crash, Wall Street villains were so plentiful that no one blinked an eye when the reason given for Patrick Swayze's murder in ''Ghost'' was that an office mate simply wanted his computer password.
This time around, some television outlets like Lifetime -- and the ''ripped from the headlines'' television series ''Law & Order'' -- are trying to remain as topical as possible by tweaking their programming and marketing on the fly.
Martha Stewart has already incorporated a new money-saving segment into her daily how-to program. Ms. Stewart said in an e-mail message that she had directed her company to develop content that would ''get viewers through these tough economic times.''
At 20th Century Fox, a blue-collar television comedy called ''Two-Dollar Beer'' is suddenly prominent, while the movie division just escalated production of a previously announced sequel to ''Wall Street,'' Oliver Stone's 1987 portrait of out-of-control corporate raiders. A new writer will reshape the sequel's story line to reflect the recent turmoil of the financial markets.
Other pockets of Hollywood are going in the opposite direction, looking for scripts that offer pure escapism. Film studios in particular are saying that they want more silly comedies and even musicals. Ideas set in fantasy worlds are ''all some studios want to hear about,'' said Paul Haggis, the Oscar-winning screenwriter whose next film is a James Bond picture, ''Quantum of Solace.''
The modern movie and television factory works much farther in advance than it did in decades past, limiting the ability for studios and networks to quickly reflect the economic chaos on screen.
Studio movies often take up to three years to move from conception to release because of the increasingly complicated financing required by soaring production and marketing costs. Films about the 2003 Iraq invasion, executives note, did not start arriving in force until 2007.
A typical television series is prepared about seven episodes in advance, which is not a big change from years past, but the allotment of those episodes has shifted drastically. Networks broadcast so many reruns between fresh episodes -- a cost-saving strategy -- that anything produced now has almost no chance of being shown until February or March.
''If we put in references to the economy now, it could be totally outdated by the time those episodes air,'' said Mark Pedowitz, president of ABC Studios, which produces the drama ''Dirty Sexy Money.''
Mr. Pedowitz said he envisioned no tweaks to the format of that show, which revolves around a fabulously wealthy New York family. (It may be a moot point anyway; the series is struggling in the ratings and faces cancellation soon if its audience continues to decline.)
CW, which runs ''Gossip Girl,'' about Upper East Side private school students, says the show's plot will continue to be as soaked with Wall Street money as ever.
The businessman villain has been a film archetype since before the talkies. Indeed, in 1917, the Triangle Distributing Corporation released a silent picture called ''Greed,'' part of its ''Seven Deadly Sins'' series, in which a stock market schemer leads a young couple astray. Hollywood has often had trouble coming up with true bad guys, but diabolical business people dot the American Film Institute's list of the top 50 movie heroes and villains of all time. (Gordon Gekko from ''Wall Street'' is No. 24.)
Still, most Hollywood veterans advise against rushing too many businessman bad guys into production -- at least for now.
''In bad times especially, people do not want to see on the screen what they're living through,'' said Nicole Clemens, a longtime agent who runs International Creative Management's motion picture literary department.
Many people in the movie business hopped on the escapism bandwagon two weekends ago when the Walt Disney Studios picture about talking dogs, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' trampled two of the industry's biggest stars. Leonardo DiCaprio and Russell Crowe, starring in the terrorism-themed ''Body of Lies,'' came in a distant third behind the goofy family movie and ''Quarantine,'' a teenage horror movie. Last weekend, the talking dogs were in second place behind ''Max Payne,'' an action movie based on a video game.
Ms. Clemens said that she saw one exception to the warning against using too many business villains: the revenge picture. ''When people feel powerless in their own lives they want to see movies where protagonists are taking back the power,'' she said. ''But I still see no new trend for big business to be some new type of villain. It's been a villain for a long time.''
Movie historians note that the Great Depression led to a flood of carefree pictures. Shirley Temple tried to tap dance the nation's troubles away. The 1930s featured gangster films, lavish musicals (''The Wizard of Oz'') and screwball comedies in which the rich were portrayed as lovable fools.
Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of the film studies department at Wesleyan University, said that studios had the best luck dealing with economic issues when they did so with subtlety. For instance, ''It Happened One Night,'' the 1934 Frank Capra movie about a spoiled heiress running away from her family, is a romantic comedy that hints at the social turmoil of the Great Depression: a wandering thief desperate for money; a passing train populated with hobos. ''Subtlety has always been the key,'' she said.
''Let's look on the bright side,'' said Bruce Berman, chairman and chief executive of Village Roadshow Pictures Entertainment. ''Bad times have spawned some really great movies in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Douglas as Gordon Gekko in ''Wall Street.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX/EVERETT COLLECTION)
 Martha Stewart discussed money-saving tips with Jim Cramer on her show on Oct. 1. Some television and movie producers are trying to stay topical by addressing the economic turmoil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDERS KRUSBERG/MARTHA STEWART SHOW) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); WRITERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); LIFETIME ENTERTAINMENT SERVICES LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (78%); JIM CRAMER (58%); PATRICK SWAYZE (57%); BILL GATES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



871 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: IN THE FINE PRINT, A PROLIFERATION OF LARGE DONORS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO and GRIFF PALMER; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Much of the attention on the record amounts of money coursing through the presidential race this year, including in Senator Barack Obama's announcement on Sunday of his $150 million fund-raising haul in September, has focused on the explosion of small donors. 
 But there has been another proliferation on the national fund-raising landscape that was not fully apparent until the latest campaign finance reports were filed last week: people who have given tens of thousands of dollars at a time to help the candidates. 
 Enabled by the fine print in campaign finance laws, they have written checks that far exceed normal individual contribution limits to candidates, to joint fund-raising committees that benefit the candidates as well as their respective parties. 
 Many of these large donors come from industries with interests in Washington. A New York Times analysis of donors who wrote checks of $25,000 or more to the candidates' main joint fund-raising committees found, for example, the biggest portion of money for both candidates came from the securities and investments industry, including executives at various firms embroiled in the recent financial crisis like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and AIG. 
 The joint fund-raising committees have been utilized far more heavily this presidential election than in the past. Mr. Obama's campaign has leaned on wealthy benefactors to contribute up to $33,100 at a time to complement his army of small donors over the Internet as he bypassed public financing for the general election. More than 600 donors contributed $25,000 or more to him in September alone, roughly three times the number who did the same for Senator John McCain. 
 And Mr. McCain's campaign, which had not disclosed most of these donors until last week, has taken the concept to new levels, encouraging deep-pocketed supporters to write checks of more than $70,000, by adding state parties as beneficiaries of his fund-raising. 
 All told, each candidate has had about 2,000 people give $25,000 or more to his various joint fund-raising committees through September. 
 ''What we're seeing is an emphasis on the high-end check that we have not seen since the days of soft money,'' said Anthony J. Corrado Jr., a campaign finance expert at Colby College in Maine. 
 The Times examination of donors who wrote checks of $25,000 or more through September found some notable differences in the industries from which Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain drew their largest contributions. 
 Compared with Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain drew a slightly larger percentage of his big-donor money from the financial industry, about a fifth of his total. The next biggest amount in large checks for Mr. McCain came from real estate and then donors who identified themselves as retired. With his emphasis on offshore drilling, Mr. McCain has also enjoyed heavy support from generous benefactors in the oil and gas industry, a group Mr. Obama drew relatively little from. 
 After the financial arena, Mr. Obama drew the most in checks of $25,000 or more from retirees and lawyers -- Mr. McCain collected significantly less in large donations from lawyers -- followed by those in real estate. 
 Mr. Obama also drew a significant amount from big givers in the entertainment industry, who contributed relatively little to Mr. McCain. In contrast, donations from the private equity and hedge fund industries accounted for a significantly greater amount of the giving from Mr. McCain's largest donors, compared with Mr. Obama's. 
 Certain companies were especially generous to a particular candidate. Three top executives of Merrill Lynch, for example, wrote checks of $28,500 each to Mr. McCain; among them was the chief executive, John A. Thain. A dozen employees at Goldman Sachs wrote checks of $25,000 or more to Mr. Obama.
 Donations to these joint fund-raising committees have surged this election cycle, taking in nearly $300 million this year through September -- with Mr. McCain collecting slightly more than Mr. Obama -- compared with $69 million in 2004. Campaign finance watchdogs call it a worrisome trend, saying the heavy emphasis on such arrangements brings candidates one step further into the embrace of major donors. 
 ''This is subverting the whole notion of candidate contribution limits,'' said Steve Weissman, associate director for policy at the Campaign Finance Institute.
 Individuals are normally limited to contributing $2,300 to presidential candidates for the primary and another $2,300 for the general election. But the joint fund-raising committees allow donors to enjoy the clout that comes with writing a single large check that can cover the maximum contributions to the candidates, as well as $28,500 to the national party. In Mr. McCain's case, that check could also include $10,000 apiece for several state parties and $2,300 to a legal compliance fund for the general election. The money directed to the national and state parties can then be used to help the candidates under certain restrictions. 
 More than 1,800 people had donated $25,000 or more as of the end of September to Mr. McCain through his various ''victory'' committees, according to Federal Election Commission filings and data compiled by Public Citizen, a nonpartisan watchdog group. More than 300 people had contributed $50,000 or more. 
 As for Mr. Obama, about 2,000 people had donated $25,000 or more to his joint fund-raising committees through September, including more than 500 who have given $30,000 or more.
 McCain finance officials introduced their main joint fund-raising committee, McCain Victory 2008, in the spring. Mr. McCain was still able to accept primary money, so money was divided between his primary campaign coffers, the Republican National Committee, several state parties and his compliance fund, for a maximum check of $70,100. 
 Mr. McCain is now taking public financing for the general election, but he has continued to raise money through his joint fund-raising committees, something that frustrates campaign finance watchdogs, because they argue that a goal of public financing is to get candidates out of the private money-raising business.
 ''It undermines the whole spirit of the system,'' said David Arkush, director of Congress Watch at Public Citizen.
 Indeed, Mr. McCain collected $10.6 million just last week for the Republican Party at an event in New York he headlined with his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. 
 The largest donors typically get V.I.P. treatment at fund-raisers, including dinner and a photo with the candidate.
 Gordon V. Smith, a Maryland home builder, and his wife, Helen, gave $67,800 each to Mr. McCain this year and attended a fund-raiser at the Ritz-Carlton in Tysons Corner, Va. Mr. Smith was later invited to an intimate dinner for major donors with Rick Davis, the McCain campaign manager. Mr. Smith, who said he was a staunch believer in free enterprise, called the meeting a ''stroke'' for big donors but said he had had a chance to offer some policy ideas. ''Will the campaign talk to any donor? Even if you give 10 bucks, they'll talk to you, but you might talk to a volunteer,'' he said. 
 Arguably the biggest whales of all are the several dozen who contributed $70,000 or more to Mr. McCain. They included Marvin Gilliam, an executive at Cumberland Resources, a Virginia coal-mining company where several top officials made sizable contributions to Mr. McCain, as well as Mr. Gilliam's wife, Marcia; Joe Ricketts, founder of the securities firm TD Ameritrade; and Meg Whitman, former chief executive of eBay and a prominent McCain surrogate, who contributed a total of $92,400, according to F.E.C. records, although some will apparently need to be refunded because of federal contribution limits. 
 The Obama Victory Fund funnels money to his campaign coffers and the Democratic National Committee. The largest check a donor could write for the primary and the general elections was $33,100. Mr. Obama also has a separate committee that distributes money to 18 battleground states. 
 More than 500 donors contributed more than $30,000 each to Mr. Obama. They included James E. Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy, a power company based in Charlotte, N.C.; Melanie Griffith, the actress; and John M. Noel, chief executive of Travel Guard, an affiliate of the insurance giant AIG.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



872 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Said To Be Urging New Mergers In Banking

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a step that could accelerate a shakeout of the nation's banks, the Treasury Department hopes to spur a new round of mergers by steering some of the money in its $250 billion rescue package to banks that are willing to buy weaker rivals, according to government officials.
As the Treasury embarks on its unprecedented recapitalization, it is becoming clear that the government wants not only to stabilize the industry, but also to reshape it. Two senior officials said the selection criteria would include banks that need more capital to finance acquisitions. 
''Treasury doesn't want to prop up weak banks,'' said an official who spoke on condition of anonymity, because of the sensitivity of the matter. ''One purpose of this plan is to drive consolidation.''
With bankers traumatized by the credit crisis and the loss of investor confidence, officials said, there are plenty of banks open to selling themselves. The hurdle is a lack of well-capitalized buyers.
Stable national players like Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, and Wells Fargo are already digesting acquisitions. A second group of so-called super-regional banks are well positioned to take over their competitors, officials said, but have been reluctant to undertake or unable to complete deals.
By offering capital at a favorable rate, the government may encourage them to expand. In this category, industry analysts point to regional leaders, like KeyCorp of Cleveland; Fifth Third Bancorp of Cincinnati; BB&T of Winston-Salem, N.C.; and SunTrust Banks of Atlanta.
With $125 billion left over after investing in the nine largest banks, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said there was enough capital to invest in every qualified bank.
''We have received indications of interest from a broad group of banks of all sizes,'' he said at a news conference. ''This program is not being implemented on a first-come, first-served basis.''
Mr. Paulson did not address the issue of bank mergers in his remarks, but officials say it has been widely discussed within the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which has been burdened in recent months by having to support teetering banks like Wachovia.
Providing capital to help facilitate a merger, officials say, is also a way to track how the capital is used. Some analysts have questioned how much control the government can exert over its investment, when it is injected into banks in return for nonvoting preferred shares.
''We think there will be pressure behind the scenes by Treasury to push together companies that should have merged months or years ago,'' said Gerard Cassidy, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Portland, Me. ''If you can create stronger companies, that is a positive.''
In selecting banks, Mr. Paulson said the Treasury would also rely on advice from the quartet of regulators who oversee the banking industry: the Fed, the F.D.I.C., the comptroller of the currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision.
But Mr. Paulson made clear that the final decision of who gets federal money rests with the Treasury. And he reiterated that the government expected the banks that got money to lend it out rather than hoard it -- putting in a special plea for homeowners with troubled mortgages.
''We expect all participating banks to continue to strengthen their efforts to help struggling homeowners,'' he said. ''Foreclosures not only hurt the families who lose their homes, they hurt neighborhoods, communities and our economy as a whole.''
The Treasury's bank rescue comes amid a rising clamor in Washington that the government should focus on helping mortgage holders directly. But officials say it is unlikely that the Bush administration will present a new plan for homeowners between now and the election.
''There's no inexpensive, easy way to address the terms of people's mortgages,'' said Robert J. Shapiro, an economic consultant who is chairman of the globalization initiative of NDN, a left-leaning research group in Washington. ''I think that's why they haven't addressed it.''
Most likely, he said, the campaigns of Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama will hone their own proposals. Then, if Congress reconvenes after the election in a lame-duck session, the new president-elect will try to push through a bill with new measures.
Under the terms of the $700 billion rescue plan approved by Congress early this month, the Treasury has authority to purchase whole mortgages. Treasury officials also note that Mr. Paulson has pressed banks and loan servicers to show flexibility in modifying loans to avoid foreclosures.
Still, Treasury's recent efforts have been almost wholly focused on stabilizing the banks -- first by proposing to buy distressed assets from the banks, and later by injecting capital directly into them. There were some signs in the credit markets Monday that those efforts were paying off.
On Monday, Mr. Paulson described a process for banks to apply for government investments that is little more complicated than the one-page term sheet he handed to the chief executives of the nation's nine largest banks at a meeting last week at the Treasury Department.
The institutions, he said, must fill out a standardized two-page form and submit it to their primary regulator by Nov. 14. The Treasury will receive the applications, with a recommendation, from the regulator. Once it decides whether to inject capital, it will announce its investment within 48 hours. It will not disclose banks that withdraw or are turned down.
The Treasury's program is open to large and small banks, as well as thrifts. Officials said they had received inquiries from other financial institutions, including insurance companies, but the plan did not provide for them.
Given the potential weakness of insurers, some analysts said the government should consider expanding the eligibility for capital injections. These analysts said $250 billion would not be enough.
''They should see themselves as having $700 billion to recapitalize the industry in creative ways,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
While the Treasury's offer of capital is attractive, analysts cautioned that cash alone might not be enough to reshape the industry. Recent deals, they note, have featured distressed banks sold at fire-sale prices.
''There are a lot of obstacles to mergers in the banking industry,'' Mr. Cassidy of RBC Capital Markets said. ''I don't know how the government could persuade banks to do deals at below book value.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said Monday that there was enough stabilization money left over to assist every qualified bank.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (91%); KEYCORP (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (50%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); FITB (NASDAQ) (91%); KEY (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); STI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (54%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



873 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Obama Briefly Leaving Trail to See Ill Grandmother

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Missouri.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Heading into the bell lap of his presidential campaign, Senator Barack Obama announced Monday night that he would leave the trail later this week to visit his gravely ill grandmother in Hawaii. 
 Mr. Obama's grandmother, Madelyn Dunham, 85, all but raised him from age 10 until he left for college, and he spoke of her at the Democrats' convention in Denver. His parents are dead.
 ''Everyone understands that the decision that Senator Obama is making to go to Hawaii underscores the seriousness of his situation,'' said his spokesman, Robert Gibbs. ''As he has said, she poured everything she had into him.'' 
 Mr. Obama, who has canceled appearances in Iowa and Wisconsin, will fly Thursday to Hawaii. Mr. Gibbs said he was expected back on the trail Saturday.
 To leave with Election Day only two weeks away carries an element of risk. Mr. Obama is running ahead of his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, in national polls, but his lead in some has not been large. 
 In Orlando, hours before Mr. Obama's announcement, he walked arm in arm with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, whom he defeated in a hard-fought contest for the Democratic nomination. Underscoring the importance of that state, Mrs. Clinton urged supporters to bend their backs to the cause of Democratic victory next month.
 ''Many of you supported me in the primary, and I am very grateful and very appreciative,'' Mrs. Clinton told about 50,000 people. ''Now I am asking you to work as hard for Barack as you worked for me, to walk as far for Barack as you walked for me.''
 Theirs had been a tough, often rancorous yearlong fight for the nomination. And while Mrs. Clinton has campaigned hard for her former rival over the past months, their joint appearances still take the feel of an event, tinged with suspense. But as polished political troupers, they give much effort to creating the effortless impression of dear friends on a mission.
 They walked out onto a riser, and Mr. Obama guided her about the platform, his hand in the square of her back. ''The Rising'' by Bruce Springsteen blasted from speakers, as it does nearly every day for Mr. Obama and as it did nearly every day when Mrs. Clinton sought the nomination. 
 A touch ruefully, Mr. Obama recalled that he had taken lumps from her during 20 debates. ''I know first hand how tough she is, how passionate she is, how committed she is,'' he said. ''I admire her as a leader. I learned from her as a candidate. I'm proud to call her a friend.''
 More than 1,000 miles away, in Belton, Mo., Mr. McCain freshened his criticism of Mr. Obama as too untested to be president by seizing on remarks from Mr. Obama's running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., that an international crisis might test a new Obama administration.
 Mr. McCain asserted that Mr. Biden had told donors Sunday that in a crisis, Obama and Biden supporters ''would have to stand with them because it wouldn't be apparent that Senator Obama would have the right response.''
 Mr. Biden, according to remarks recorded and transcribed by ABC News from a fund-raiser in San Francisco, had said: ''Mark my words: it will not be six months before the world tests Barack Obama like they did John Kennedy. The world is looking.
 ''We're about to elect a brilliant 47-year-old senator president of the United States of America. Remember I said it standing here, if you don't remember anything else I said. Watch, we're going to have an international crisis, a generated crisis, to test the mettle of this guy.''
 Mr. McCain went to Missouri as polls show Mr. Obama with a modest edge in the state. Unlike Mr. Obama, who drew 100,000 in St. Louis and 75,000 in Kansas City over the weekend, Mr. McCain spoke Monday to crowds in the single-digit thousands. 
 Back in Florida, Mrs. Clinton headed up a rally in Fort Lauderdale and drove to the airport in Orlando to meet Mr. Obama. She walked up the steps into his airplane, which allowed her to debark with Mr. Obama, the two laughing for the cameras.
 Mr. Obama took pains to be gracious. He credited her with proposing a moratorium on home foreclosures. And he gave a relatively rare mention of President Bill Clinton by name, telling voters that they had done much better under the economy when Mr. Clinton was in office.
 In the end, Mr. Obama returned to the sense of history that lingered over their campaigns, as the first black and female candidates to square off as finalists for a major party nomination for president. He said many in the audience might have had grandparents who, because they were black or a woman, could not have voted.
 But, he added, they might have dreamed that ''someday I may have a granddaughter or grandson who can run for president.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about developments on the campaign trail, including Senator Barack Obama's decision to visit his gravely ill grandmother in Hawaii, misidentified the city in which his running mate, Joseph R. Biden Jr., suggested that Mr. Obama would be tested in his first six months in office. It was Seattle, not San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain appeared Monday at an outdoor rally in St. Charles, Mo., near St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama campaigned together Monday in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); RICK PERRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



874 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Copyright and Politics Don't Mix

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE LESSIG. 
Lawrence Lessig, a law professor at Stanford, is the author of ''Remix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy.''

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT this election season, Americans have used the extraordinary capacity of digital technologies to capture and respond to arguments with which they disagree. YouTube has become the channel of choice for following who is saying what, from the presidential campaign to races for city council.
 But this explosion in citizen-generated political speech has been met with a troubling response: the increasing use of copyright laws as tools for censorship. 
 A recent dispute in a race for New York State Assembly is a perfect example. A Democrat, Mark Blanchfield, is challenging the Republican incumbent, George Amedore, in the Assembly district that includes the upstate New York city of Schenectady. Last month, Mr. Blanchfield released television and radio advertisements that included a clip from a video interview with The Albany Business Review in which Assemblyman Amedore said, ''I don't look at the Assembly position as a job.'' 
 Mr. Amedore complained that the ads took his remark out of context, and the newspaper's lawyers sent Mr. Blanchfield letters calling the ads ''an infringement of our client's exclusive copyright rights'' (redundancy in the original), and threatening Mr. Blanchfield if he didn't cease using the material. Never mind that Mr. Blanchfield's use couldn't possibly have harmed the financial interest of The Albany Business Review. Whatever the newspaper's motive, the result is the censorship of Mr. Blanchfield's campaign.
 This problem isn't limited to New York Assembly races. It has directly affected the presidential campaigns. Last year, Fox News ordered John McCain to stop using a clip of himself at a Fox News-moderated debate. Last month, Warner Music Group demanded YouTube remove an amateur video attacking Barack Obama that included its music, while NBC asked the Obama campaign to pull an ad that included some NBC News video with Tom Brokaw and Keith Olbermann. No doubt, these corporations are simply trying to avoid controversy or embarrassment, but by claiming infringement, they are effectively censoring political speech. 
 Senator McCain has taken a lead in responding to this copyright extremism. In a letter addressed to YouTube last week, the McCain campaign rightly criticized the Web site's decision to remove work that is ''clearly privileged under the fair use doctrine'' of copyright law and called upon YouTube to be more protective of political speech by conducting a more extensive review of material before it gets taken down.
 Copyright law has become a political weapon because of a statute passed a decade ago: the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. That law tells carriers like YouTube that unless they quickly remove material posted by users that is alleged to infringe copyright, they themselves could be liable for the infringement. Understandably, YouTube and others have become quite vigilant in removing allegedly infringing content. Indeed, the Web site has gone beyond the requirements of the law and has begun to shut down the accounts of people alleged to have violated copyright just three times.
 The digital copyright act gives the alleged infringer an opportunity to demand that the content be restored. But in the height of a political campaign, even a few hours of downtime can be the difference between effective and ineffective. The law thus creates a perfect mechanism to censor political speech during the only time it could matter. Recognizing this, campaigns and their allies are beginning to exploit this weapon.
 The answer to this problem is not to abolish or ignore copyright. Instead, the law should be revised, bringing focus to the contexts in which its important economic incentives are needed, and removing it from contexts where it isn't. 
 After all, a 95-year copyright on ''Wall-E'' may encourage Pixar to make innovative movies, but we can be confident our presidential candidates don't require any first-to-the-market advantages before they agree to debate, nor is there a need to protect their answers as though they were record albums or new technologies. This is why both Senators McCain and Obama joined in a campaign to persuade the networks to make the raw feed from their debates available free of any copyright restrictions. 
 What content owners need to recognize is that in the long run, it's unwise to ask for a definition of ''fair use'' in the middle of a presidential campaign. Judges are very unlikely to find copyright infringement in a political ad, and a law of ''fair use'' expanded to allow such uses could well weaken the legitimate claims of musicians and Hollywood studios.
 It would be far better if copyright law were narrowed to those contexts in which it serves its essential creative function -- encouraging innovation and ensuring that artists get paid for their work -- and left alone the battles of what criticisms candidates for office, and their supporters, are allowed to make.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); US DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (76%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (76%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RADIO ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



875 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Joe the Marketer Responds to a Category 5 Hurricane

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla.
HERE is a look back at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights at the 98th annual conference of the Association of National Advertisers, which 1,200 people attended here last Thursday through Sunday.
HURRICANE, TORNADO, TSUNAMI Concerns about the financial crisis permeated the conference, from the speeches to the conversations at dinner to the talk at the hotel bar.
''I'm very glad that it's Saturday,'' said Claire Bennett, senior vice president for marketing at American Express, as she began her presentation at a general session. ''There's not going to be much news about the stock market.'' 
When Jez Frampton, chief executive at Interbrand, an Omnicom Group agency, described how his new Best Global Brands study estimated the total value of leading brands at $1.2 trillion, he added, ''That's just about enough to bail out the American banking system.''
As Jonah Bloom, editor of the trade publication Advertising Age, started his remarks at a dinner, he looked out at the full ballroom and said, ''I take it you all registered before the economy went south.''
One reason attendance was so high despite the uncertain business climate was that the conference hotel required two nights' deposit and a 30-day notification of cancellation for a full refund. That fine print, said several people who had considered not coming, led them to keep their plans to attend.
The scope of the economic crisis seemed immense enough that attendees needed several ways to describe it. Joseph V. Tripodi, chief marketing and commercial officer at the Coca-Cola Company, likened the situation to ''a Cat 5,'' as in a Category 5 hurricane.
Nick Utton, chief marketing officer at E*Trade Financial, upped the ante weatherwise, calling it ''a hurricane, a tsunami and a tornado, all combined.''
NOVEMBER TO REMEMBER The coming presidential election was discussed almost as much as the economy. For instance, Mr. Tripodi began his remarks by declaring: ''I'm not Joe the plumber. I'm Joe the marketer.''
On Saturday, Joe Trippi, a Democratic consultant debated Tony Blankley, former press secretary for Newt Gingrich, the Republican and former House speaker. Afterward, attendees used instant polling devices to tell how they planned to vote next month.
Seventy percent said they would vote for Senator Barack Obama and 26 percent said they would vote for Senator John McCain. (''Other'' and not voting accounted for the rest.) By comparison, at a dinner at the 94th annual conference in October 2004, 49 percent of those voting said they would support President Bush and 46 percent said they would support the Democratic nominee, Senator John Kerry.
Those who voted for Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama were then asked who they believed would win the election, regardless of whom they supported. The margin for Mr. Obama was even larger, 86 percent to 14 percent.
Those outcomes may not have been completely surprising. One attendee was seen carrying a purse with an Obama button. Another attendee wore an Obama football jersey at the hotel pool.
The campaign effort for Mr. Obama also won a vote requested by Mr. Bloom of Advertising Age to decide which of six finalists would be named his publication's marketer of the year. Mr. Obama drew 36.1 percent of that vote. Apple, the 2007 winner, ranked No. 2 with 27.3 percent, and the online retailer Zappos came in third with 14.1 percent.
The McCain campaign finished last at 4.5 percent, behind No. 4 Nike (9.4 percent) and No. 5 Coors beer (8.7 percent).
BROUGHT TO YOU BY For the first time in several years, the number of companies sponsoring the conference -- paying fees that help the association defray the cost of the meeting -- fell compared with the previous year. There were 44, down from 51 in 2007 (and 2006).
Still, their pitches were hard to avoid. The hotel room keys were embossed with ads for DirecTV. Attendees had to walk past a corridor lined with tables of sponsors' wares to enter and leave the general sessions. The large attendance meant hallway gridlock the first couple of days of the conference, much to the delight of sponsors like Google, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia and the Magazine Publishers of America.
In another sign of the economic climate, attendees swarmed the shelves that were stocked by the magazine association with free copies of almost 100 publications. Mr. Obama had a strong showing there, too, turning up on the covers of magazines like Creativity, Ladies' Home Journal, Men's Health and Time.
The most popular table may have been the one staffed by a graphologist who analyzed the signatures and handwriting of attendees, courtesy of a company called SAS Customer Intelligence. One attendee was pleased to learn that he was ''wise beyond his years,'' although at age 39 it seemed less of a compliment than if his age had started with a 2.
JARGON WATCH Each year the conference exposes students of language to the buzzwords and buzzphrases (if that is a word) in vogue among marketers. Among those heard during the speeches this time: ''forward predict'' (as if there could be ''backward predict''), ''stakeholder engagement,'' ''maximizing the shelf sets,'' ''single-point accountability,'' ''enablement experience,'' ''tailored solutions'' and ''relevant touch points'' (as if there could be irrelevant ones).
Also, several buzzwords were used as nouns and verbs, among them ''benchmark,'' ''bonus'' and ''silo.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaking in Orlando, Joseph V. Tripodi, left, chief marketing and commercial officer at Coca-Cola, and Jonah Bloom, editor of Advertising Age.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BANK FAILURES (72%); HOTEL AMENITIES (71%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (66%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



876 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: One Day Doesn't Make A Trend

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
The banks aren't lending. And despite what you have heard, they probably won't start just yet. 
 The stock market may be way up on expectations of a credit thaw on Wall Street -- and there has already been a minor one -- but don't hold your breath on Main Street. The dirty little secret of the government's $250 billion handout to nine banks to get them lending again is this: So far, they have stuffed it under their mattress like the rest of us. 
 Need a mortgage? An auto loan? If you are a business or consumer, it's almost as hard to get a loan this week as it was last. 
 Sure, there are some positive signs that the credit market is opening up a bit: Libor rates, the price at which banks lend to each other, have crept down in recent days, greasing the wheels of capitalism, or at least what's left of it. Some banks, like JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, actually made loans to banks in Europe on Friday. These are all important steps on the way to a recovery.
 But make no mistake, the banks are doing the opposite of what Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, sought when he virtually demanded that they accept the taxpayers' money: They are hoarding it. It's a bit like the government's sending out tax rebate checks and the consumers' not immediately running out and spending them.
 ''Our purpose is to increase confidence in our banks and increase the confidence of our banks, so that they will deploy, not hoard, their capital,'' Mr. Paulson said in a statement Monday. ''And we expect them to do so, as increased confidence will lead to increased lending. This increased lending will benefit the U.S. economy and the American people.''
 Of course, with a $250 billion injection into America's biggest banks -- not all of which were troubled -- Mr. Paulson has a political sales job to do. And no requirements to lend were attached to the money. (Some banks may use the money to buy others.) 
 But Mr. Paulson is making a big assumption about confidence, because until the real economy recovers -- which could take more than a year -- lending to Main Street is unlikely to return rapidly to normal levels. 
 ''It doesn't matter how much Hank Paulson gives us,'' said an influential senior official at a big bank that received money from the government, ''no one is going to lend a nickel until the economy turns.'' The official added: ''Who are we going to lend money to?'' before repeating an old saw about banking: ''Only people who don't need it.''
 Indeed, if there's a reason the stock market went up Monday, it was because Fed chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress he was in favor of a second economic stimulus plan, a tacit acknowledgment that recent efforts to repair the financial system won't be enough to dig the economy out of its rut.
 Think about it: troubled companies are still troubled companies. And while banks often stupidly throw money at questionable companies in good times, they shut off the spigot in bad times. 
 On top of all that, the banks may still be in more trouble than they have disclosed. Indeed, the reason many may be holding onto the government's cash is because they expect things to get worse not just for the economy, but for themselves.
 Roger Bootle and Jonathan Loynes of Capital Economics in London wrote a sobering note on Monday about the cash infusions into European banks that may apply here as well. ''We expect rising loan defaults and further asset write-offs over the next couple of years to practically wipe out the governments' capital injections, leaving banks back at square one,'' they said. ''Given that banks will need to increase their capital in order to expand their lending book, these measures on their own are unlikely to prevent bank lending from stagnating.''
 What else can government do? One of the last arrows in its quiver is the controversial idea of reducing the amount of capital banks must hold. That might make the banks more comfortable to lend, but it would put banks on an even less stable footing, and undermines the overall idea of injecting capital into banks in the first place. 
 That is not to say that Mr. Paulson's $250 billion package won't be helpful to the economy. It is a smart plan to help to encourage bank lending, which may prevent the economy from spiraling downward even more into a prolonged depression. And it should keep some more banks from going bust, which would have only added fuel to what seemed like an out-of-control fire. But it is not a silver bullet. 
 And the bailout also may be concealing another problem: Because the government gave money to both healthy and unhealthy banks, that may make it harder to tell which ones are in more trouble than the others. That's why banks have been so wary of lending to other banks. Although a key gauge of this psychology, the Libor rate, has improved since governments moved to repair the financial system, some banks are still worried they can't trust their counterparts to pay the loan back.
 Ken Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, in an appearance on ''60 Minutes'' on Sunday night, said in perhaps one of the most revealing comments of the credit crisis that the reason strong banks like his got $25 billion apiece was to help conceal the weakness of those that have fallen into dire straits. 
 ''If you have a bank in that group that really, really needed the capital, you don't want to expose that bank,'' Mr. Lewis said. 
 Still, Mr. Lewis says he's bullish that things will eventually turn around, though he thinks we won't see a bottom until at least the first half of next year. And he suggested that banks won't keep money under the mattress forever. ''You can make more money lending,'' he said. 
 At least to people who don't need it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ken Lewis, Bank of America.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP EAST/REUTERS)(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); KENNETH D LEWIS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



877 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Art and Commerce Canoodling in Central Park

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The wild, delirious ride that architecture has been on for the last decade looks as if it's finally coming to an end. And after a visit to the Chanel Pavilion that opened Monday in Central Park, you may think it hasn't come soon enough.
 Designed to display artworks that were inspired by Chanel's 2.55, a quilted chain-strap handbag, the pavilion certainly oozes glamour. Its mysterious nautiluslike form, which can be easily dismantled and shipped to the next city on its global tour, reflects the keen architectural intelligence we have come to expect from its creator, Zaha Hadid, the Iraqi-born architect who lives in London.
 Yet if devoting so much intellectual effort to such a dubious undertaking might have seemed indulgent a year ago, today it looks delusional. 
 It's not just that New York and much of the rest of the world are preoccupied by economic turmoil and a recession, although the timing could hardly be worse. It's that the pavilion sets out to drape an aura of refinement over a cynical marketing gimmick. Surveying its self-important exhibits, you can't help but hope that the era of exploiting the so-called intersection of architecture, art and fashion is finally over. 
 The pavilion, made of hundreds of molded fiberglass panels mounted on a skeletal steel frame, was first shown in Hong Kong in February. From there it was packed up in 55 sea containers and shipped to Tokyo, closing there in July and heading to New York, where it will be on view through Nov. 9. Chanel is paying a $400,000 fee to rent space in the park and has made a gift of an undisclosed amount to the Central Park Conservancy as part of the deal.
 The company's money couldn't have bought a prettier site. The pavilion stands on Rumsey Playfield, near Fifth Avenue and 69th Street, on a low brick plinth at the edge of the park's concert grounds. Groves of elm and linden trees frame the pavilion to the north and south; a long trellis draped in wisteria flanks it to the west, with the Naumburg Bandshell rising immediately behind it. The area is carpeted in colorful fall leaves.
 Visitors arrive at the site along a low brick staircase where Chanel employees collect their tickets. (The tickets are free but must be reserved in advance on the Internet.) When you reach the top of the staircase, the pavilion's white shell seems suddenly to peel open, as if to lure you inside. A broad ramp and a few shallow steps lead up to a small terrace. The long, curved form of the ticket booth frames the terrace's outer edge, its tail-like shape stretching back to envelop the composition as if it were an embracing arm.
 As with all of Ms. Hadid's best work, the forms are not just decorative but also direct the pattern of movement through the site, collecting the energy surrounding it and channeling it into the building. Visitors enter one at a time, catching a brief glimpse of the interior before emerging into a narrow lobby. A guide instructs you to sit down and fits you with an MP3 player. The husky voice of the French actress Jeanne Moreau then invites you to stand up, before guiding you through your ''personal journey.'' 
 A series of curvaceous forms, finished in a pearlescent white car paint, are used to break down the pavilion's interior into discrete galleries without interrupting the sense of flow. A staircase leads up to a small balcony, where you can gaze back down into one of the galleries and orient yourself. (Most of the artwork, which includes a life-size S-and-M teddy bear and scenes of a Japanese model tied up in gold chains, is completely mundane: tame cliches laboring to be provocative.)
 Eventually you spiral around to an interior courtyard that serves as the pavilion's social heart. Light pours down through skylights made of soft, pillowy panels, illuminating a gigantic reproduction of a quilted Chanel handbag tipped on its side.
 The sequence of spaces is masterly choreographed. The flow of movement slows at certain points, only to speed up again before thrusting you back outside. The design's structural refinement also reflects a high level of control. Although the building's steel ribs vary in size, they all radiate from a central point, so that you sense an underlying order in the form. The pavilion has the taut, finely crafted look of a luxury sports car, a winking echo of Modernism's centurylong obsession with the assembly line.
 It's not that hard to see why Ms. Hadid accepted the commission. One of architecture's most magical aspects is the range of subjects it allows you to engage, from the complex social relationships embodied in a single-family house to the intense communal focus of a concert hall. Great talents want to explore them all; it is what allows them to flex their intellectual muscles.
 But traumatic events have a way of making you see things more clearly. When Rem Koolhaas's Prada shop opened in SoHo three months after the World Trade Center attacks, it was immediately lampooned as a symbol of the fashion world's clueless self-absorption. The shop was dominated by a swooping stage that was conceived as a great communal theater, a kind of melding of shopping and civic life. Instead, it conjured Champagne-swilling fashionistas parading across a stage, oblivious to the suffering around them. 
 The Chanel Pavilion may be less convoluted in its aims, but its message is no less noxious. When I first heard about it, I thought of the scene in the 1945 film ''Mildred Pierce'' when the parasitic playboy Monte Beragon sneeringly tells the Joan Crawford character, a waitress toiling to give her spoiled daughter a better life, that no matter how hard she scrubs, she will never be able to remove the smell of grease. We have been living in an age of Montes for more than a decade now. For strivers aching to separate themselves from the masses, the mix of architecture, art and fashion has had a nearly irresistible pull, promising a veneer of cultural sophistication.
 Opening the pavilion in Central Park only aggravates the wince factor. Frederick Law Olmsted planned the park as a great democratic experiment, an immense social mixing place as well as an instrument of psychological healing for the weary. The Chanel project reminds us how far we have traveled from those ideals by dismantling the boundary between the civic realm and corporate interests.
 The pavilion's coiled form, in which visitors spiral ever deeper into a black hole of bad art and superficial temptations, straying farther and farther from the real world outside, is an elaborate mousetrap for consumers. The effortless flow between one space and the next, which in earlier projects suggested a desire to break down unwanted barriers, here suggests a surrender of individual will. Even the surfaces seem overly sleek by Ms. Hadid's normal standards; they lack the occasional raw-material touch common to her best buildings, which imbued them with a human dimension.
 One would hope that our economic crisis leads us to a new level of introspection and that architects will feel compelled to devote their talents to more worthwhile -- dare I say idealistic? -- causes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: he Chanel Pavilion in Central Park, designed by Zaha Hadid, was created to display art inspired by a Chanel purse.
A view showing the entrance to the nautiluslike pavilion.
 Part of the interior of the Chanel Pavilion, designed by Zaha Hadid, which is now open in Central Park. The pavilion, which can be easily dismantled, has already been in Hong Kong and Tokyo.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); FIBERGLASS (66%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); HONG KONG (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



878 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Endorses New Round of Stimulus

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Monday that he supported a second round of additional spending measures to help stimulate the economy.
 ''With the economy likely to be weak for several quarters, and with some risk of a protracted slowdown, consideration of a fiscal package by the Congress at this juncture is appropriate,'' Mr. Bernanke told the House Budget Committee.
 His remarks were his first endorsement of another round of energizing stimulus, which Democrats on Capitol Hill have advocated and Republicans have resisted. 
 The White House, which flatly opposed a second stimulus package championed by House Democrats last month, said on Monday that President Bush was open to proposals. But aides to Mr. Bush still expressed skepticism about Democratic ideas that had surfaced so far.
 ''We're open to ideas and we'll take a look at what comes our way,'' Dana Perino, Mr. Bush's press secretary, said aboard Air Force One as the president was flying to a business gathering in Alexandria, La. ''What we've seen put forward so far, by the leaders in Congress, the Democrats, were elements of a package that we did not think would actually stimulate the economy.''
 Still, Mr. Bernanke's testimony strengthened the hand of Democrats, who are pushing for a package of spending that could total $150 billion to $300 billion. The testimony could put pressure on Mr. Bush to either enter discussions or risk losing the initiative and appearing behind the curve. 
 Democratic leaders would like to pass a spending bill in a lame-duck session of Congress immediately after the elections on Nov. 4. But that would depend on whether Mr. Bush was willing to agree on a deal. If Democrats cannot prevent Mr. Bush from vetoing a bill, they will most likely wait until the next president takes office in January.
 To draw in the White House as well as Republican lawmakers, Democrats are casting around for measures that Mr. Bush has wanted. One possible inducement could be passing a long-stalled free-trade agreement with Colombia. Republicans are also pushing for additional tax cuts, and there might be ground for agreement on that front.
 An earlier stimulus package, in which the government mailed out almost $100 billion in tax rebates during the spring and summer, provided a temporary lift to incomes and consumer spending. But the lift faded by late summer. Since then, the economic downturn has, if anything, accelerated.
 ''Chairman Bernanke made it clear that a new economic recovery package is critical to boost our weakening economy,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Speaker. ''I call on President Bush and Congressional Republicans to once again heed Chairman Bernanke's advice.'' 
 Republican House lawmakers warned that they were likely to fight a new stimulus bill if it relied on spending.
 ''We should not be under any illusion that this stimulus package will address the core problems,'' said Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the senior Republican on the House Budget Committee. ''If Congress is going to take action, it should be through fast-acting tax policy that boosts incentives to invest and create jobs.''
 Democratic lawmakers have scheduled a series of hearings this week on proposals to assist the economy, even though Congress is not in session.
 The House passed a $61 billion bill last month, which Mr. Bush threatened to veto and is currently stalled in the Senate. That bill would provide money for infrastructure projects, extend unemployment benefits for a second time this year and increase spending on food stamps, home heating subsidies and state Medicaid programs.
 The Fed chairman refused to be drawn into a debate about the size or the components of a stimulus plan, though he cautioned that infrastructure projects often took too long to start to be useful as stimulus measures.
 ''With the outlook exceptionally uncertain, the optimal timing, scale and composition of any fiscal package are unclear,'' he told lawmakers. When lawmakers pressed for specific recommendations, Mr. Bernanke said that was ''for Congress to figure out.''
 The government announced last week that it would invest $250 billion directly into the nation's banks as part of a $700 billion bailout package to ease the financial turmoil and loosen the credit markets. In addition, the government has helped bail out the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as well as the insurance giant the American International Group. 
 Mr. Bernanke cautioned that ''any program should be designed, to the extent possible, to limit longer-term effects on the federal government's structural budget deficit.'' 
 In a somewhat cryptic comment, he also urged Congress to think about measures that would relieve the credit squeeze that has made it difficult for consumers and businesses to borrow. 
 ''The extraordinary tightening in credit conditions has played a central role in the slowdown thus far,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''If Congress proceeds with a fiscal package, it should consider including measures to help improve access to credit by consumers, homebuyers, businesses and other borrowers.''
 It was unclear what kind of measures he had in mind. 
 Though the Fed chairman refused to say the economy had entered a recession, as many private forecasters now contend, Mr. Bernanke once again painted a grim picture of rising unemployment, falling investment and no immediate end in sight to the plunge in housing prices. 
 ''Even before the recent intensification of the financial crisis, economic activity had shown considerable signs of weakness,'' he told lawmakers. Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet next Tuesday and Wednesday, and many economists predict that the Fed will once again lower short-term interest rates. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke refused to be drawn into a discussion on the size of any stimulus package.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VETO (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALEXANDRIA, LA, USA (55%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



879 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Senator Dodd's Notion of Courtesy

 BODY:
After reports emerged in June about him having received favorable treatment on two home mortgages from the Countrywide Financial Corporation, Senator Christopher Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut, promised that he would release documents to support his contention that he never benefited financially from the terms of the loans. 
 The senator has failed to keep his promise, and his excuses are wearing ridiculously thin.
 ''I think it will become obvious at the time when it's the right time, and I'll explain that at the time when I do so,'' Mr. Dodd said last week after a speech in Norwich, Conn., according to The Hartford Courant.
 When asked to elaborate, he said: ''My answer is what it is, and in the right time, it will be there.''
 Mr. Dodd's original explanation for the loans were not much of an improvement, frankly. He says he knew he was on a V.I.P. list at Countrywide, once the nation's largest mortgage lender and one of the early casualties of the financial collapse -- and now the target of dozens of lawsuits over predatory lending. But he said he did not ''seek or expect'' preferential treatment, which has left everyone wondering what exactly the V.I.P. list was for.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Dodd continues to serve as chairman of the Senate banking committee. He has been a member of the committee for much of his 28 years in the Senate. He is a leader in shaping legislation that will bail out the mortgage industry, which has given him generous campaign support over the years, particularly during his recent, unsuccessful campaign for president. 
 According to company e-mails unearthed and reported by Portfolio.com, Countrywide waived fees and provided mortgages at discounted rates when Mr. Dodd refinanced his homes in the District of Columbia and Connecticut. The favorable treatment could save him thousands of dollars over the course of the loans. 
 The Senate Ethics Committee is investigating whether the terms of the loans violated its rules on disclosing gifts. But such an investigation does not preclude Mr. Dodd from being candid. 
 Mr. Dodd admits he was extended ''courtesies'' by Countrywide. It's time for him to extend some courtesy to his constituents and the rest of the nation and release the records on the mortgages, without delay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); ETHICS (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); PREDATORY LENDING (73%); LITIGATION (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



880 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Thawing BEGINS In Credit FLOW; DOW RISES by 413

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
After weeks of extraordinary efforts by the world's governments and central banks, the frozen flow of credit began to thaw on Monday.
 The tentative re-emergence of trust among lenders -- a rare commodity of late -- raised hopes that the immediate financial pressures on banks, businesses and municipalities could ease somewhat, cushioning the blow of a likely recession.
 That encouraging signs appeared at all was enough to bring a wave of relief to Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average rose 413 points, or 4.7 percent. As recently as last Friday, it was far from certain how quickly the unprecedented moves to unlock global credit, including the partial nationalization of some of the world's biggest banks, would make a difference. 
 ''Fear really appears to have receded considerably,'' said John V. Miller, the chief investment officer of Nuveen Asset Management. 
 A benchmark borrowing rate among banks, known as Libor, dropped on Monday by the largest amount in nine months, an indication of growing confidence in the financial system. Local and state governments found buyers for bonds that had gathered dust for weeks. Banks and money market funds opened their coffers to corporate borrowers, reducing rates on short-term loans. 
 The improvements in the credit markets came as welcome news to American businesses large and small, which depend on short-term financing for their daily operations. Economists warned, however, that American consumers might face a more difficult road.
 On Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, told lawmakers that the ''risk of a protracted slowdown'' merited the introduction of new measures to help individual Americans gain access to credit. Mr. Bernanke did not specify the size or scope of any plan.
 The Bush administration is under pressure to do more to help the economy and Democrats in Congress plan to devise a second stimulus measure. The Treasury Department, meanwhile, hopes to spur a new round of mergers among banks by steering some of the money in its $250 billion rescue package to banks that are willing to buy weaker rivals, according to government officials.
 While these efforts may provide some relief, the concern is that it may take time before they have a major impact on the economy. Loans are likely to remain scarce for many small businesses and consumers. 
 Credit is unlikely to flow freely soon, said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors, an investment firm in San Francisco. ''It's going to be doled out in small pieces over the next few months,'' he said.
 Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in mid-September, the credit markets entered a state of near paralysis, keeping many businesses and municipalities from obtaining financing. 
 For now, market watchers can celebrate that credit is being given out. Interest rates on common types of commercial paper -- effectively short-term i.o.u.'s issued by businesses -- fell to a four-month low.
 Companies began registering on Monday for a new program that would allow them to sell commercial paper to the Fed, the first time the central bank would lend directly to American businesses since the Great Depression. The program will go into effect next Monday and appeared to help build confidence in the short-term financing market. 
 Companies sold about $3.3 billion of bonds in the United States last week -- a historically low level -- but are now looking to raise about $15.5 billion, according to Bloomberg News. Prices for municipal debt held steady for a third day on Monday after a monthlong sell-off. 
 ''The money market funds are feeling, based on what we are hearing, a little bit more comfortable and confident,'' said Mr. Miller of Nuveen Asset Management, who specializes in the market for municipal bonds.
 The Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission sold $180 million of short-term loans on Monday. The market for longer-term municipal bonds, which had stagnated through last Friday, improved for the first time in weeks.
 Still, the biggest municipal debt sales came from big names like the Long Island Power Authority, Harvard and the State of California, Mr. Miller said. Credit remains very tight for smaller outfits that are more directly threatened by the looming recession. 
 ''The demand is re-emerging, but initially, it's only emerging for certain types of bonds,'' Mr. Miller said. The market for newly issued bonds, he said, had been ''effectively shut down'' for two months and remained stagnant on Monday. ''So it's early in the process,'' he said. ''You can't call it a healthy market just yet.'' 
 In a sign that investors are willing to take risks in other parts of the financial markets, the yields on three-month Treasury bills rose to a one-month high. Investors also showed more confidence in banks like Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, as measured by the cost to insure their corporate debt, although those costs remained historically elevated.
 In the corporate bond market, Illinois Power sold $400 million of 10-year bonds and Freddie Mac raised $2 billion. 
 Other investors appeared to cast off those caveats, moving out of Treasury bonds and showing a new willingness to brave the winds of the stock market. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained almost 4.8 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index climbed 3.4 percent. Shares of energy companies led the gains. Chevron and Exxon Mobil shares gained more than 10 percent. 
 A measure of volatility in the market, the VIX index, fell 25 percent from Friday, when it reached a record high. All major industry groups in the S.& P. 500 posted gains, and all 30 stocks on the Dow Jones industrial average rose for the day. ''Credit markets have been leading the equity markets in recent weeks,'' said David Kovacs, who oversees quantitative investing at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa. The gains on Wall Street followed positive sessions on the European and Asian exchanges. Stocks in London on the FTSE 100 index ended more than 5 percent higher. Shares in Paris on the CAC 40 index rose 3.5 percent and Frankfurt's DAX index gained 1.1 percent. 
 European stocks rallied after the Dutch government announced late Sunday that it would inject about $13.4 billion of new capital into ING, one of the country's largest financial institutions. 
 ''It's pretty clear that the moves by the policy makers are slowly but surely unclogging the inability to lend and borrow,'' Mr. Bublitz of SCM Advisors said. ''I suppose a little bit of thaw feels a little good.''
 In Asia on Tuesday morning, stocks opened higher. The Nikkei index in Tokyo was up 2.6 percent and the Seoul composite in South Korea was trading up 1.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: CREDIT CRISIS INDICATORS IMPROVE (Source: Bloomberg)(A1)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); RECESSION (76%); BONDS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



881 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Twists and Turns, Finish Line in Sight

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Donation Record as Colin Powell Endorses Obama'' (front page, Oct. 20):
 John McCain chose ''Country First'' as the motto of his presidential campaign. He is a distinguished veteran and a former prisoner of war, and so the choice seemed obvious -- and unassailable. 
 By endorsing Senator Barack Obama, Colin L. Powell, the retired four-star general and former secretary of state under George W. Bush, believes that he, too, is putting country first. And by doing so, he will take a lot of flak from fellow Republicans. He may even become a target of the right-wing slime machine that defines and pollutes the Republican Party and the McCain campaign. 
 But thoughtful Americans will realize that General Powell's decision was based not on what he thought was best for the Republican Party but on what he thought was best for the country. 
 George Henson
 Dallas, Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Colin L. Powell speaks for me. I am a liberal who is often wary of our military leaders. While I have always had respect for General Powell, I found his choice of party mystifying. But on Sunday, he spoke up for me in much stronger terms than any of the politicians or pundits have. His courage to speak out against his party, colleagues and friends on a national stage was amazing.
 Two particular points hit home for me. You don't have to be in or from ''small-town America'' or ''the heartland'' to be an ethical, moral, hard-working person. And people of all races and religions (I would add atheists as well) are an important part of our national fiber. 
 Although I disagreed with much of his role in the Bush administration, I hope to see him serving in an Obama administration come January. Ray Franks
 New York, Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has endorsed Senator Barack Obama's presidential candidacy. Now there's a maverick. Emlyn Addison
 Providence, R.I., Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Behind McCain, Washington Outsider Wanting Back In'' (''The Long Run'' series, front page, Oct. 18):
 As a Barack Obama supporter, I am disturbed by your article about Cindy McCain. She is not running for president, John McCain is, and I frankly think that the article crosses the line of political reporting in examining their bilocation marriage, her past troubles with drugs and her personal challenges as Mr. McCain's second wife. 
 Isn't there anything else to cover this close to the election? Renee Rico
 San Rafael, Calif., Oct. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am perplexed as to why you decided to feature such a mean-spirited, unkind article about Cindy McCain. I have been a dedicated New York Times reader for decades as well as a lifelong Democrat and a current Barack Obama supporter. So I am questioning your judgment as a friend rather than as an enemy.
 Carol Redding
 New York, Oct. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Here the People Rule,'' by William Kristol (column, Oct. 20):
 How is it that real people are condensed into a fictional ''Joe'' whose actual counterpart disparages the Barack Obama tax plan suited to his circumstances and favors the John McCain plan crafted for his fantasy?
 Our nonfiction family lives in Topeka. We teach our children that community service enriches their lives. We introduce them to people of different faiths, races and means. We recycle. We value higher education. We fear that our incomes will falter through no fault of our own.
 We spend 27 percent of our pay on health care. We do not use our special-needs child as a prop. We believe that tactics that contemptuously divide by identity never solve problems. We are progressive Democrats.
 The best election outcome? Republicans will honestly ask how their actions and focus strayed so far from their aspirations. Democrats will respect, honor and learn from that Republican reflection and reorientation.
 Sallye Wilkinson
 Topeka, Kan., Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As some conservative intellectuals abandon John McCain and Sarah Palin in favor of Barack Obama and Joe Biden, William Kristol announces that he is not to be numbered among the elitists of his party. No elitist he, Mr. Kristol stands ''with Joe the Plumber -- in defiance of Horace the Poet.'' 
 In seeking to cast the McCain-Palin ticket as the true representative of the ''common people,'' Mr. Kristol is simply reiterating the same tired refrain: the Republican Party, in spite of the fact that its policies have served to benefit only the wealthy few at the expense of the many, is the party of the middle class, the average Joe. 
 But it appears that reality has caught up with Republican ''bait and switch'' tactics. This time, the average Joe and Jane, who have seen the gap between the rich and them widen exponentially, are not willing to accept Mr. McCain's disdain for ''spreading the wealth'' to less advantaged Americans. 
 As they see government engaging in an unprecedented giveaway of our national treasure to the very businesses and institutions that contributed to the financial crisis in which we find ourselves, the vulgus, the common people, are saying ''enough, it's time to take care of us.'' Jay N. Feldman
 Port Washington, N.Y., Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Real Plumbers of Ohio,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Oct. 20):
 I know a real Joe the Plumber, and yes, his name is Joe. He's married to my cousin and lives in Massachusetts. He even has a real plumbing license. 
 A few years ago, he was doing well, but with this growing recession, people have stopped calling him. The thing is, when people don't have money, calling the plumber drops way down on their list of priorities.
 Joe has four kids, and his second child is entering a local college. He thought he could afford her tuition, but with these bad times he's not so sure anymore. Since his business has shrunk, he needs to cut back, too.
 So my question to people who still feel that giving tax breaks to the wealthy will ultimately benefit the economy is this: I get the trickle-down effect, I get what you say by giving corporations power and freedom to really do business. But if we give the middle class a little bit more money, too -- not the lines of credit and risky mortgages that have been handed out like Halloween candy and that have made us feel rich even though we're not, but real money in the form of tax cuts and pay raises -- doesn't that allow us to hire people like my cousin Joe and keep his business going? 
 Doesn't the trickle-down effect also have to trickle back up for capitalism to really work? Susan Porretta
 Westport, Conn., Oct. 20, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''On 'SNL' It's the Real Sarah Palin, Looking Like a Real Entertainer,'' by Alessandra Stanley (The TV Watch, Arts pages, Oct. 20):
 Sarah Palin's ''Saturday Night Live'' appearance did nothing to enhance her credentials to serve as vice president or potentially as president, but I give her enormous credit for being willing to poke fun at herself and to give the nation a great laugh, something we are badly in need of at a time of economic collapse, and in a slimy and insulting presidential campaign in which there has been more to cry about than to laugh.
 Sarah Palin is a good sport, and deserves praise for not taking herself too seriously. Oren M. Spiegler
 Upper St. Clair, Pa., Oct. 20, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (76%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (52%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>; Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008



882 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATESIDE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: In Bush Stronghold, Obama Pulls Even With McCain

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Lorie McCoy, 40, a flight attendant, was bustling out of a library here the other day, loaded down with books. She is worried about how an upended economy might affect the airline industry, and so she is also taking classes.
''I'm looking for a better, higher-paying job,'' Ms. McCoy said. For that reason, she said, she is voting for Senator Barack Obama.
''He is speaking to a lot of people's issues,'' she said. ''With all these factory closings, he's speaking to the middle class.''
It is through voters like Ms. McCoy, who moved to North Carolina eight years ago, that Mr. Obama has achieved a milestone: He is now running neck and neck with his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, in the state, and is even slightly ahead in some polls. 
This once-red state is now a raging battleground, along with a few others where Mr. Obama has sought to expand his electoral map.
''For a Republican to be tied at this point in the election in North Carolina is unfathomable,'' said Hunter Bacot, a political scientist at Elon University, which Gov. Sarah Palin, Mr. McCain's running mate, visited last week.
No Democratic presidential candidate has won North Carolina since Jimmy Carter did so in 1976. The state has long been a bastion of cultural conservatism; it was in Greensboro last week that Ms. Palin said she loved visiting the ''pro-America'' parts of the country.
But this is a new landscape, even from four years ago, when President Bush defeated Senator John Kerry (and his running mate, John Edwards, of North Carolina) by 12 percentage points in the state.
The turnabout can be traced to an influx of new voters and a change in demographics; a slowing of the state's economy and the collapse of the nation's financial system; Mr. Obama's extensive ground organization, huge financial advantage and amount spent on television (seven to one over Mr. McCain); the state's large population of blacks and students; and Mr. McCain's neglect of the state.
The relative position of the candidates was evident in their visits to the state last weekend.
Mr. McCain spoke to a few thousand people in Concord, in Cabarrus County, which is an exurb of Charlotte and which voted lopsidedly in 2004 for Mr. Bush (67 percent to 33 percent). On a sunny Saturday morning, Mr. McCain's audience seemed made up mainly of his base. They cheered loudly when he mentioned Ms. Palin and ''Joe the Plumber,'' the Ohio man who has become a symbol of Mr. McCain's newly fashioned economic message, that Mr. Obama's statement about wanting to ''spread the wealth around'' revealed him to be a socialist.
Mr. McCain had spoken briefly the week before in Wilmington (also Bush country), but until then he had not visited the state since the May primaries. His plea was blunt: ''We have to win the state of North Carolina, and I'm counting on you to do it.''
On Sunday, in a fortuitous bit of timing, Mr. Obama spoke in Fayetteville, dense with military families, in his first appearance after being endorsed by former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
Mr. Obama's visit to the area, which voted marginally for Mr. Bush in 2004, was his sixth trip to the state since the primaries, and he was reaching beyond his base.
''The men and women from Fayetteville and all across America who serve in our battlefields may be Democrats and Republicans and independents, but they have fought together and bled together and some died together under the same proud flag,'' Mr. Obama said.
The state is one of the fastest-growing in the country, becoming home to more immigrants as well as transplants from other states who tend to be more moderate than the natives. This means both a less conservative electorate and a labor force that is growing faster than the supply of jobs.
''Somewhere, former conservative icon Senator Jesse Helms must be turning over in his grave at the prospect of Obama winning North Carolina's 15 electoral votes,'' James Bennett, the managing editor of the local newspaper, The Independent Tribune, wrote after Mr. McCain's visit. ''The Republican stronghold that elected Helms to five terms in the Senate no longer exists.''
Social conservatives were never thrilled with Mr. McCain in the first place; analysts say that Ms. Palin initially gave him a boost here, but now she does not appear to be drawing support from beyond the base.
Polls show that the economy is by far the most important issue for voters.
Tom Jensen, a Democratic pollster in Raleigh, said the McCain camp was ''counting on the conservative view prevailing over the economy, which is why they haven't spent any money here, which is why it's gotten as difficult for them as it has.''
Parts of the state, especially around the affluent Research Triangle Park area, show strong economic growth. But others are still suffering from a decline in textiles and furniture making. The state's unemployment rate hit 7 percent in September, its highest level in six years.
Even the state's banking industry is on edge. The recent merger of Wachovia, based in Charlotte, with Wells Fargo has created great uncertainty, with possible layoffs in the offing.
''The Bush years have been very tough on North Carolina, especially the trade policies,'' said Marc Farinella, Mr. Obama's state director here. ''And that's why this race has become so competitive.''
As the economy has slowed, the Obama campaign has also stuck to its game plan, building a corps of 17,000 volunteers, registering voters and now focusing on getting them out to vote.
While Mr. McCain was speaking at the arena in Concord, a small Obama field office a few miles away bustled with volunteers. They made hundreds of phone calls; others picked up computerized voter lists to canvass; others enter information collected during the day to give up-to-date print-outs to canvassers the next day.
The fruits of their labors are beginning to show. The state registered 600,000 new voters this year, 48 percent of them Democrats, 21 percent Republicans, the rest unaffiliated. In early voting, which began Thursday, more than 114,000 people had gone to the polls -- 64 percent of them Democrats, 21 percent Republicans and 15 percent unaffiliated.
Among the early voters in Greensboro on Friday was Maria Adams, 46, who owns an employment agency. She stayed in line even after being told she would have to wait an hour and a half. ''It's worth it,'' she said. ''McCain is too hardline and too old and too erratic. He's out of touch with what matters today, which is the economy.''
Mike Duhaime, the national political director for the McCain campaign, said he still felt confident of winning North Carolina. Democrats who win statewide offices are ''more centrist'' than Mr. Obama, Mr. Duhaime said.
Representative Robin Hayes, a Republican who represents this area and is facing a tough re-election fight, said North Carolina was ''closer than they want it to be,'' and for all of the time and money that Mr. Obama has invested here, ''he still can't close the deal.''
''There are significant doubts in people's minds,'' Mr. Hayes said. And indeed, several voters expressed such doubts, picking up on messages put out in McCain campaign robocalls and through false Internet rumors about Mr. Obama's background and affiliations.
Mr. Hayes spoke to the crowd in the arena before Mr. McCain took the stage, and drew on the local pastime to offer encouragement. ''If you're a Nascar fan, and I'm sure you are,'' he said, ''all you got to win is the last lap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Waller, left, in an Obama mask, and Elazbeth Waller as Gov. Sarah Palin while Senator John McCain talks in Concord, N.C., on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: How North Carolina Voted in Presidential Races . . .: 2004 popular vote margin
. . . And Who Voted: As percentage of voters surveyed in statewide exit polls. (Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 exit polls conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, Voter News Service and Edison/Mitofsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%)

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (91%)

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JIMMY CARTER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



883 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Away to the South of France

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
I COULD tell just from the heady, briny perfume of it how good the fish soup in front of one of my companions was. So the way her eyes widened when she took her first pale red spoonful and the verbal verdict that followed didn't surprise me.
 ''It tastes exactly the way it should,'' she said, rushing the words out as soon as the soup was down. She wanted the rest of us to know. She wanted to crow. She wanted to be done with talking and get back to the soup. She was even making those mm-mm noises, or something oddly close to them, as in the goofy Campbell's commercials from years ago.
 What she meant, as I learned when she passed the soup to me, was that that it tasted of Mediterranean waters -- scorpion fish, rouget -- and of Mediterranean sunshine, the tomato flavor robust and true. She meant that it had some proper mischief in it: a blast of fennel, a flicker of Pernod, a murmur of saffron.
 Watching and nodding as I myself made joyful sense of it, she said, ''Are we in the south of France or what?'' 
 Actually, we were in Chelsea, though it was easy to be confused.
 The best of the food at Allegretti transported us to Nice or, I suppose, Monte Carlo. The restaurant's chef and principal owner, Alain Allegretti, was born in the former and spent several years cooking in the latter -- under a more famous Alain, last name Ducasse.
 And the atmosphere transported us to Midtown or to the lower Upper East Side, circa the 1970s. Though elegant in its way, Allegretti has a kind of stodginess and square-ness more commonly associated with those neighborhoods and with the prevailing fine-dining ethos of decades past.
 It's a restaurant that produces a profound sense of dislocation, in ways good, bad and neither. It's not of the here and now, or at least not of downtown Manhattan and a new chapter of intense economic anxiety and pessimism. Pick a trend or a seemingly sensible impulse. Allegretti travels in the opposite direction from it.
 Saucy, busy French cooking isn't in vogue, and might not be what the toppled titans of Wall Street -- or anyone else re-examining spending habits -- are looking for. Allegretti embraces it, many dishes calling for a tableside application of some final, fancy touch by one of the servers, each outfitted in accordance with his or her station. Captains: suit and tie. Principal servers: collared shirt and tie. Supporting servers: collared shirt and apron.
 Although bare at lunch, the mahogany tables in the creamy, relatively colorless dining room are draped in white linen come dinnertime, when the prices rise and the level of lighting doesn't fall as much as in other restaurants. On a recent dinner menu there wasn't an entree under $30.
 Will this fly on an unromantic street with, at one end, an Olive Garden, which may well be better suited to a sub-10,000 Dow? I wonder.
 But on its own terms, Allegretti distinguishes itself admirably. Although some dishes are overwrought, with an ingredient or two too many, and a few utterly miss their mark, more are executed with finesse and with a wicked sense of indulgence.
 They're executed with a nod to the seasons, too. The fish soup, so evocative of the shore, was on the summer menu, which Allegretti retired a few weeks ago. The fall menu replaces it with a soup of pumpkin and foie gras that was shockingly wan, considering its ingredients, which also include chicken liver.
 The late summer's exceptionally fine and colorful salad of heirloom tomatoes, paired with burrata, has given way to a heartier and even more sumptuous appetizer of leeks with an eggy, salty gribiche-style sauce, a breaded poached egg that oozes when pierced and, best of all, deboned flaps of pig's feet pan-seared until not just crispy but crunchy.
 Mr. Allegretti's pasta dishes are terrific enough that you'd be wise to make one of them your first course, and they're the right, modest size for that. He sauces and stuffs those currently in rotation in a manner that braces for the cold temperatures to come. There's braised oxtail inside the ravioli, a duck ragout for chestnut cappelletti, braised veal cheek over farro.
 My favorite pasta dish was tagliolini sauced with a zippy ragout showcasing cuttlefish, cherry tomatoes and briny currents of the fish soup. Also folded into the mix, for some extra bite and brightness, was an almond-and-basil pesto.
 It's the entrees that Mr. Allegretti is most prone to overworking. A fillet of cod suffered from too little attention to the star of the show, overcooked and dried out, and too sprawling a supporting cast: salt cod, chickpeas, piquillo peppers, chorizo -- everything but voice-over narration by Morgan Freeman. 
 But the impulse to cram a lot of drama onto a plate worked well in the case of a duck dish. Wedges of breast were studded with honeyed hazelnuts, macadamia nuts and almonds. Beside the duck were tender onions with an intense, almost jammy stuffing of farro, Parmesan and butter. 
 In general I found the meat -- veal with mushrooms in a Gorgonzola and rosemary sauce; lamb shoulder with crispy rosemary polenta -- more reliably appealing than the fish, which gets as much of the menu's real estate, befitting a Provencal restaurant.
 I found some desserts, well, small. Fewer than a half dozen bites will get you all the way through a slender brick of jasmine semifreddo or, separately, will finish off the lemon brioche, constructed as a sort of dessert slider. Neither seemed worth $10.
 But the steep prices at Allegretti were accompanied, as such prices must be, with sybaritic flourishes and coddling service. The nuts given to a companion and me as we sat at the teak bar and explored the restaurant's well chosen French wines by the glass were Marcona almonds.
 And when my companion mentioned feeling a slight chill, a hostess appeared suddenly with a trove of beautifully folded silk-wool wraps on hand for such situations. I'm not sure what era or neighborhood that references, but it's a lovely touch.
 Allegretti
 **
 46 West 22nd Street, Chelsea; (212) 206-0555. Allegrettinyc.com.
 ATMOSPHERE A medium-size dining room past a handsome teak bar has a muted palette and stodgy elegance.
 SOUND LEVEL Moderate to moderately loud, depending on crowd size.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Leeks fondant; Perugina sausage; rouget; chestnut cappelletti; farro with veal cheek; tagliolini with cuttlefish; veal rumstek; branzino; duck; lavender creme brulee; chocolate fondant.
 WINE LIST Lengthy, impressive, varied in price and mostly European, with a focus on France.
 PRICE RANGE Dinner appetizers, $10 to $18; mid-size pasta dishes, $16 to $20; entrees, $30 to $36; desserts, $10.
 HOURS Lunch from 11:45 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, and dinner from 5:30 to 10:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
 RESERVATIONS For prime times call at least a week ahead.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Dining room and accessible restroom all on street level.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LIKE OLD TIMES: Allegretti in Chelsea can feel like an Upper East Side restaurant of another era.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (86%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (65%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (74%); MEDITERRANEAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



884 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2280 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, October 22, 2008

 BODY:
International
 TOP MILITARY OFFICERS TALK
 In U.S.-Russia Conference
 In an effort to improve strained relations, the United States and Russia sent their top military officers to Helsinki, Finland, for a secretly arranged meeting. It was the first meeting between Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and his counterpart, Gen. Nikolai Makarov, since the Russian was appointed to his post this summer. ''I think it's important that we talk when there isn't a crisis,'' Admiral Mullen said after the meeting. Page A14
 TORTURE INQUIRY FAULTS MOUNTIES
 A Canadian inquiry found that the passing of inflammatory information from Canadian police and intelligence officials to the United States contributed to the jailing and torture of three Canadian citizens by Syria. The head of the inquiry faulted the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service for making strong claims about the men that were mainly unsupported. PAGE A14 
 INDIA AIMS FOR THE MOON
 India has launched its first unmanned spacecraft to orbit the moon, part of an effort to assert its power in space and claim some of the business opportunities there. The spacecraft, called Chandrayaan-1, will not land on the moon, though it is supposed to send a small ''impactor'' probe to the surface. The trip has increased talk of a space race with China. PAGE A8
 NEW SENTENCE IN BLASPHEMY CASE
 An appeals court in Afghanistan sentenced a young Afghan journalist to 20 years in prison for blasphemy, overturning a death sentence ordered by a provincial court. The ruling raised further concerns of judicial propriety in the case, in which the defendant, 23-year-old Sayed Parwiz Kambakhsh, was accused of printing and distributing an article from the Internet about Islam and women's rights, on which he had written some comments about the Prophet Muhammad's failings on that issue. PAGE A12 
 ITALY'S PREMIER RIDING HIGH
 Even as the economic crisis took huge tolls on some of the companies he owns, Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's billionaire prime minister, has been in good spirits. The reason? Mr. Berlusconi, who is already at the center of the nation's economy and politics, now stands to control billions of dollars in public money to bail out private companies should they need it, and they probably will. PAGE A6
 WHERE THE CAESAR WAS FIRST TOSSED
 Caesar's Restaurant sits in the seediest of spots, along Tijuana's Avenida Revolucion, and specializes in salad. But Caesar's claims a distinguished title: inventor of the Caesar salad. PAGE A10
 National
 PALIN MADE MINE MORE LIKELY, PITTING 2 INDUSTRIES AS RIVALS
 Two years ago, Sarah Palin landed near Ekwok, Alaska, and spoke of her love for the vast delta that drains into Bristol Bay. ''I could not support a project that risks one resource that we know is a given and that is the world's richest spawning grounds, over another resource,'' she said, referring to the millions of wild salmon that spawn in those waters. But as governor, Ms. Palin has helped ease the way for a proposed copper and gold mine at the headwaters of Bristol Bay that would rival the world's largest mines. That prospect has ignited a war between Alaska's two historic industries: mining and fishing. PAGE A22 
 ARREST IN CHICAGO POLICE SCANDAL
 Scores of criminal suspects, many poor and black, have come forward in the last few decades and said they were routinely brutalized during the 1980s by Jon Burge, above, and the mostly white officers under his command on the South Side of Chicago. Authorities arrested Mr. Burge, now 60, at his Florida home Tuesday, charging him in the police brutality scandal that continues to be one of the most racially charged chapters in the city's history. PAGE A16 
 ACORN REPORT RAISES QUESTIONS
 An internal report by a lawyer for the community organizing group Acorn raises questions about whether the web of relationships among its 174 affiliates may have led to violations of federal laws. The report, written by Elizabeth Kingsley, a Washington lawyer, spells out her concerns about potentially improper use of charitable dollars for political purposes, money transfers among the affiliates and potential conflicts created by employees working for multiple affiliates, among other things. PAGE A17 
 THROUGH GAPS IN A FENCE
 Families and friends, some of them unable to cross the border because of immigration trouble, meet in Friendship Park to exchange kisses and news through small gaps in the tattered chain-link fence that marks the meeting of Mexico and the United States in Imperial Beach, Calif. But in a sign of changing times, construction of new border fencing will begin next month, limiting any fence-side socializing. PAGE A16 
 OLD BOAT'S LAST VOYAGE (MAYBE)
 As the Delta Queen pulled away from her dock in Cincinnati into the Ohio River, tears flowed among passengers, crew members and some of the hundreds of onlookers. The 10-day cruise to Memphis could be the last commercial voyage for America's last original, paddle-wheeled, steam-driven, overnight passenger boat. PAGE A18 
 Barack Obama's Grandmother A20 
 Business
 THE PITFALLS IN PLANS
 For a Homeowner Bailout
 The head of the agency that guarantees bank deposits said the government should do more to prevent foreclosures, and both presidential candidates have called for assistance to homeowners. But David Leonhardt writes that each of those plans has an inherent problem: how does a large-scale homeowner bailout work without also helping millions of people who don't need help? PAGE B1
 WAL-MART TO ALTER ITS SUPPLY CHAIN
 In its latest effort to respond to criticism of its business practices, Wal-Mart said it would require manufacturers supplying goods for its stores to adhere to stricter ethical and environmental standards. Executives for the retail giant plan to reveal a new agreement that would require manufacturers to allow outside audits and to adhere to specific social and environmental criteria. PAGE B1
 REGIONAL BANKS IN DIRE STRAITS
 Five regional banks reported another round of painful results, and experts say their business will get worse as the economy deteriorates. Some of those banks sold stock to the government to shore up their finances, but as the losses mount, it is unclear how many small and midsize lenders the government will save. PAGE B9
 YAHOO TO LAY OFF 1,500 WORKERS
 Yahoo released its results after the market closed, and the news was not good. With the turmoil on Wall Street and an economic downturn weighing on the online advertising business, the company continued to falter in the third quarter, and the company said Tuesday that it would cut at least 10 percent of its work force, or about 1,500 workers, in the current quarter to reduce costs. PAGE B1
 New York
 DEVELOPER OF NETS' ARENA 
 Can Use Tax-Exempt Bonds
 Federal tax officials ruled that the developer of a billion-dollar basketball arena for the Nets at the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn can use tax-exempt bonds to pay for the building. They also allowed the Yankees and the Mets to issue a new round of tax-exempt bonds for their new stadiums. But the teams may have difficulty finding investors to buy the bonds in the current economic climate. PAGE A26
 FLAGS OF THEIR NEIGHBORS
 A four-leaf clover? Plausible. A white tiger? It's been known to happen. A bastion of Republican supporters in the deeply blue enclave of Park Slope, Brooklyn? Wait, what? Oh, but it's true: four brownstones on a single block are waving a flag with a word rare enough in this liberal fortress to stop passers-by cold: ''McCain.'' PAGE A25
 Dining
 NATION'S RESTAURANTS FEEL PINCH AS DOWNTURN SLIMS DINERS' WALLETS
 Across the country, restaurants are feeling the economic bite as patrons curb their spending habits. Restaurant owners are responding, with changed menus and added value options while diners order fewer appetizers and cheaper bottles of wine. Major chains are being affected more than their smaller, more malleable, independent counterparts, but experts say that nobody is going to escape this downturn unscathed. Page D1 
 A DIFFERENT SORT OF MICROBREWERY
 Presenting a Japanese transplant, by way of Kentucky: Bluegrass Soy Sauce. Matt Jamie developed the idea while thinking about small-batch bourbon and artisanal olive oil. Why not do the same with soy sauce? The resulting product is turned out in batches of around 1,600 and sticks close to the original Japanese methods of brewing, except for the old bourbon barrels it is aged in. Page D3 
 Arts
 A CUT-THROAT COMPETITION 
 For Overqualified Fashionistas
 In the new reality show ''Stylista,'' contestants vie for an editorial position at Elle magazine. The show's judge is an imperious magazine editor, one of those exacting types who is particular about, say, the way she likes her breakfast, and the show's commentary on our economic times may be accidental, but it was hard for Ginia Bellafante to miss. ''It is a brutal world indeed when securing a job to procure coffee for women in six-inch heels suddenly means going up against adversaries who speak Mandarin,'' she writes. PAGE C1
 YOUNG MALES IN THEIR FUTON YEARS
 Charles Isherwood writes that the beginning of the Second Stage Theater's revival of ''Boys' Life,'' a sensitive 1988 comedy by Howard Korder about three postadolescent men, misplays some of its early moments. ''But the staging matures almost by the minute,'' he writes ''and when the actors begin consistently hitting the right notes, Mr. Korder's mosaic of youthful dissatisfaction achieves a jazzy sense of melancholy.'' PAGE C1
 THE ENGINES OF CHINA'S GROWTH
 China's boom has been fueled by what Leslie T. Chang calls the ''the largest migration in human history'' -- the movement of millions of migrant workers into the country's cities. Her new book, ''Factory Girls,'' explores that shift, and offers an extended aside in which she explores her ancestors' roots in China. ''The results are deeply affecting,'' writes Howard French. PAGE C6 
 Sports
 A CHILD OF THE CHEAP SEATS
 Now in the Owner's Box
 As a child, David Montgomery would sit in the upper deck of Connie Mack stadium to watch the Phillies play. When he went to the University of Pennsylvania, he would sit in the bleacher seats with his friend Ed Rendell, the city's future mayor and Pennsylvania's future governor. And Montgomery worked his way up from an entry-level job with his beloved team to become its chief executive. PAGE B12
 SOME NOSH AND A PENNANT
 The Tampa Bay Rays are the rare sports team that allows its fans, above, to bring their own food into the stadium. And, George Vecsey writes, the outstanding good karma for that practice has helped propel the Rays to the World Series. PAGE B15 
 THE MISSING PIECE?
 Lebron James is arguably the best player in the N.B.A., and with his contract heading into its final phase, the pressure is on the Cleveland Cavaliers to build a championship team. A big part of their plan relies on the recently signed Mo Williams, who has become a solid scorer after falling to the second round of the 2003 draft. PAGE B12 
 WITH FAVRE, NEVER A DULL MOMENT
 When the Jets traded for Brett Favre they knew they were getting from Green Bay a gunslinger with three Most Valuable Player awards. But allegations that he called the Packers' opponent last week to tell them some of the nuances of the Green Bay offense underscores the other thing that Favre brings: drama -- a whole lot of it. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE B13 
 CALL TIMEOUT, KICKERS DON'T MIND
 It's an age-old football tradition. If the game is on the line, and the kicker is lining up to boot a field goal for the victory, the opposing team's coach calls a timeout to get in his head. But kickers say it does not work; indeed, it gives them more time to prepare and adjust. So what of the new practice of calling a timeout immediately before a kick, in essence nullifying the first attempt? The Fifth Down. PAGE B13
 Obituaries
 GAIL ROBINSON, 62
 She was a winner in the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions at 19, and for nearly two decades starting in 1970, she went on to a career as a teacher and guide for emerging singers. PAGE A25
 RUDY RAY MOORE
 A standup comic, singer and actor whose earthy rhyming tales of a vivid gaggle of characters lurching from sexual escapade to sexual escapade helped shape today's hip-hop PAGE A25
 Editorial
 ONLY HALF A BAILOUT
 As millions of Americans continue to default on their mortgages, banks will continue to suffer big losses. Unless something is done quickly to help American homeowners avoid foreclosure, those losses will swamp the bailout effort. PAGE A28
 COURTING CHAOS IN MASSACHUSETTS
 Next month, voters in Massachusetts will face a tempting ballot question on whether to eliminate the state's income tax. It is a reckless proposal that would hurt all taxpayers. Voters should reject the idea. PAGE A28 
 FLU VACCINE FOR PRESCHOOLERS
 New Jersey's new mandate that all children in preschools must be vaccinated against influenza has generated intense opposition. But allowing people to opt out would be a serious mistake. PAGE A28
 Op-ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Last week, retail gasoline prices fell below $3 a gallon -- to an average of $2.91 -- the lowest level in almost a year. But as gas prices fall, the budding clean-technology revolution suffers. PAGE A29
 A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEBT
 Debt, the bond between a borrower and a lender, is a fundamental human relationship, based on fairness, that stands at the center of both religion and literature, the novelist Margaret Atwood writes in an Op-Ed article. PAGE A29 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SENTENCING (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); PRISONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SPACECRAFT (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); RELIGION (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); WRITERS (64%); WOMEN (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (56%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%) EARTH'S MOON (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FINLAND (92%); ITALY (86%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



885 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: In Sour Economy, Some Scale Back On Medications

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
For the first time in at least a decade, the nation's consumers are trying to get by on fewer prescription drugs. 
 As people around the country respond to financial and economic hard times by juggling the cost of necessities like groceries and housing, drugs are sometimes having to wait. 
 ''People are having to choose between gas, meals and medication,'' said Dr. James King, the chairman of the American Academy of Family Physicians, a national professional group. He also runs his own family practice in rural Selmer, Tenn. 
 ''I've seen patients today who said they stopped taking their Lipitor, their cholesterol-lowering medicine, because they can't afford it,'' Dr. King said one recent morning. 
 ''I have patients who have stopped taking their osteoporosis medication.'' 
 On Tuesday, the drug giant Pfizer, which makes Lipitor, the world's top-selling prescription medicine, said United States sales of that drug were down 13 percent in the third quarter of this year. 
 Through August of this year, the number of all prescriptions dispensed in the United States was lower than in the first eight months of last year, according to a recent analysis of data from IMS Health, a research firm that tracks prescriptions. 
 Although other forces are also in play, like safety concerns over some previously popular drugs and the transition of some prescription medications to over-the-counter sales, many doctors and other experts say consumer belt-tightening is a big factor in the prescription downturn.
 The trend, if it continues, could have potentially profound implications. 
 If enough people try to save money by forgoing drugs, controllable conditions could escalate into major medical problems. That could eventually raise the nation's total health care bill and lower the nation's standard of living. 
 Martin Schwarzenberger, a 56-year-old accounting manager for the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Kansas City, is stretching out his prescriptions. Mr. Schwarzenberger, who has Type 1 diabetes, is not cutting his insulin, but has started scrimping on a variety of other medications he takes, including Lipitor. 
 ''Don't tell my wife, but if I have 30 days' worth of pills, I'll usually stretch those out to 35 or 40 days,'' he said. ''You're trying to keep a house over your head and use your money to pay all your bills.'' 
 Although the overall decline in prescriptions in the IMS Health data was less than 1 percent, it was the first downturn after more than a decade of steady increases in prescriptions, as new drugs came on the market and the population aged. 
 From 1997 to 2007, the number of prescriptions filled had increased 72 percent, to 3.8 billion last year. In the same period, the average number of prescriptions filled by each person in this country increased from 8.9 a year in 1997 to 12.6 in 2007. 
 Dr. Timothy Anderson, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Company pharmaceutical analyst who analyzed the IMS data and first reported the prescription downturn last week, said the declining volume was ''most likely tied to a worsening economic environment.''
 In some cases, the cutbacks might not hurt, according to Gerard F. Anderson, a health policy expert at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. ''A lot of people think there there's probably over-prescribing in the United States,'' Mr. Anderson said. 
 But for other patients, he said, ''the prescription drug is a lifesaver, and they really can't afford to stop it.'' 
 Dr. Thomas J. Weida, a family physician in Hershey, Pa., said one of his patients ended up in the hospital because he was unable to afford insulin. 
 Not everyone simply stops taking their drugs. 
 ''They'll split pills, take their pills every other day, do a lot of things without conferring with their doctors,'' said Jack Hoadley, a health policy analyst at Georgetown University. 
 ''We've had focus groups with various populations,'' Mr. Hoadley said. ''They'll look at four or five prescriptions and say, 'This is the one I can do without.' They're not going to stop their pain medication because they'll feel bad if they don't take that. They'll stop their statin for cholesterol because they don't feel any different whether they take that or not.'' 
 Overall spending in the United States for prescription drugs is still the highest in the world, an estimated $286.5 billion last year. But that number makes up only about 10 percent of this country's total health expenditures of $2.26 trillion.
 Pharmaceutical companies have long been among those arguing that drugs are a cost-effective way to stave off other, higher medical costs.
 The recent prescription cutbacks come even as the drug industry was already heading toward the ''generic cliff,'' as it is known -- an approaching period when a number of blockbuster drugs are scheduled to lose patent protection. That will be 2011 for Lipitor. 
 Already, a migration to generic drugs means that 60 percent of prescriptions over all are filled by off-brand versions of drugs. But with money tight, even cheaper generic drugs may not always be affordable drugs.
 Factors other than the economy that may also be at play in the prescription downturn include adverse publicity about some big-selling medications -- like the cholesterol medications Zetia and Vytorin, marketed jointly by Merck and Schering-Plough. And sales of Zyrtec, a popular allergy medication, moved out of the prescription category earlier this year when Johnson & Johnson began selling it as an over-the-counter medication. 
 Diane M. Conmy, the director of market insights for IMS Health, said the drop in prescriptions might also be partly related to the higher out-of-pocket drug co-payments that insurers are asking consumers to pay.
 ''Some consumers are making decisions based on the fact that they are bearing more of the cost of medicines than they have in the past,'' Ms. Conmy said.
 The average co-payment for drugs on insurers' ''preferred'' lists rose to $25 in 2007, from $15 in 2000, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit health care research organization. And, of course, lots of people have no drug insurance at all. That includes the estimated 47 million people in the United States with no form of health coverage, but it is also true for some people who have medical insurance that does not include drug coverage -- a number for which no good data may exist.
 For older Americans, the addition of Medicare drug coverage in 2006 through the Part D program has meant that 90 percent of Medicare-age people now have drug insurance. And in the early going, Part D had helped stimulate growth in the nation's overall number of prescriptions, as patients who previously had no coverage flocked to Part D. 
 But a potential coverage gap in each recipient's benefit each year -- the so-called Part D doughnut hole -- means that many Medicare patients are without coverage for part of the year. 
 The recent IMS Health figures reveal that prescription volume declined in June, in July and again in August, mirroring studies from last year suggesting that prescription use begins dropping at about the time more Medicare beneficiaries begin entering the doughnut hole. 
 Under this year's rules, the doughnut hole opens when a patient's total drug costs have reached $2,510, which counts the portion paid by Medicare as well as the patient's own out-of-pocket deductibles and co-payments. 
 The beneficiary must then absorb 100 percent of the costs for the next $3,216, until total drug costs for the year have reached $5,726, when Medicare coverage resumes.
 Gloria Wofford, 76,of Pittsburgh, said she recently stopped taking Provigil, prescribed for her problem of falling asleep during the day, because she could no longer afford it after she entered the Medicare doughnut hole. 
 Her Provigil had been costing $1,695 every three months. ''I have no idea who could do it,'' she said. ''There's no way I could handle that.'' 
 Without the medication, Ms. Wofford said, she falls asleep while sitting at her computer during the day but then cannot sleep during the night. Because she feels she has no choice, Ms. Wofford is paying out of pocket to continue taking an expensive diabetes medication that costs more than $500 every three months. 
 For some other people, the boundaries of when and where to cut back are less distinct. 
 Lori Stewart of Champaign, Ill., is trying to decide whether to discontinue her mother's Alzheimer's medications, which seem to have only marginal benefit. 
 ''The medication is $182 a month,'' said Ms. Stewart, who recently wrote about the dilemma on her personal blog.
 ''It's been a very agonizing decision for me. It is literally one-fifth of her income.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lori Stewart is trying to decide whether to discontinue the Alzheimer's medications of her mother, Eleanor Stewart, 66. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gloria Wofford stopped taking Provigil because she could no longer afford it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON COHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHART: CUTTING BACK: After a decade of growth, the number of drug prescriptions dispensed in this country has declined several months in a row in 2008, and some analysts expect it to be down for the entire year. (Source: IMS National Prescription Audit) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); DIABETES (75%); OSTEOPOROSIS (73%); TRENDS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (62%); CHOLESTEROL (55%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (91%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFEB (BRU) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



886 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, Put On a Smiley Face?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Downturn's Upside'' (column, Oct. 19):
 Nicholas D. Kristof writes that ''income doesn't have much to do with happiness'' and that according to the Easterlin Paradox, ''Once they have met their basic needs, people don't become happier as they become richer.'' 
 If this is true, then what motivates those greedy Wall Street executives who got us into this financial mess? Are their ''basic needs'' different from ours? Do they ''need'' as many homes and cars as John McCain and Jay Leno have? 
 Do they ''need'' to dine at expensive restaurants like Per Se, which according to The New York Times ''can instantaneously bring a crazy smile to your face'' and ''a profound sense of peace''? 
 And if, as Mr. Kristof quotes Prof. Alan B. Krueger of Princeton as saying, ''what seems to matter much more is having good friends and family, and time to spend on social activities,'' does this refer to the recent ''social activities'' that American International Group executives and their ''good friends and family'' enjoyed at a luxury resort and spa in California and at a partridge hunt in England, paid for by taxpayers to the tune of more than $500,000?
 Somehow Mr. Kristof's ''happy column'' did not bring a ''crazy smile'' to my face. And Per Se is not per me. Besides, I'm too busy getting ''healthy'' shopping, cooking and cleaning up -- but unfortunately, not like the way those ''unhappy'' C.E.O.'s cleaned up. 
 John Cappelletti 
 New York, Oct. 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Recession has a long-term and a short-term detrimental impact on poverty, access to health care, and increased illness and mortality. It most powerfully affects the lowest-income families and their health, and any suggestion that it acts as a class equalizer is misguided.
 The most consistent research finding in all of epidemiology and public health in industrialized countries is that lower income is related to increased illness and mortality rates for nearly every cause of death and at all ages -- especially infancy and early childhood.
 My research over the last 30 years has shown that national income, or per capita G.D.P., is the single most important predictor of life expectancy among industrialized and developing countries. 
 Nicholas D. Kristof correctly writes that for those who lose health insurance -- which clearly occurs with increased unemployment -- a medical problem can even be life threatening. This process involves substantially reduced access to health care and therefore diminishing use of procedures like cancer and cardiovascular screening.
 One need only look at the graphs accompanying ''A Hemline Index, Updated'' (Week in Review, Oct. 19) to see the severe mental health implications of recession in the consistent relation between decreased employment and higher suicide rates in the United States over a half-century. 
 M. Harvey Brenner
 Fort Worth, Oct. 20, 2008
 The writer is a professor at the University of North Texas Health Science Center and at Johns Hopkins University.
 To the Editor:
 There is an even greater upside to this downturn. 
 Only a major meltdown would have gotten the attention of consumers to lessen their unsustainable debts. 
 It was also a wake-up call to businesses that were hiding their debts by using questionable accounting practices. The longer this would have gone on, the worse it would have been for all of us.
 Ronald Kaprov 
 Bronx, Oct. 19, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (85%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (85%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); RESTAURANTS (69%); RESORTS (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



887 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Investor Sheds A Major Stake In Ford Motor

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
One of the biggest boosters of the American auto industry said Tuesday that he was bailing out of his large stake in the Ford Motor Company -- a stinging no-confidence vote that raised the anxiety level in this city over the deepening troubles of the Big Three car companies.
 By starting to sell off his $1 billion bet on Ford, an investment that is now worth less than $300 million, the financier Kirk Kerkorian joined the growing ranks of investors who have soured on Detroit's prospects because of plummeting sales and mounting losses.
 Mr. Kerkorian's abrupt decision to back away from Ford comes just six months after he began building his stake. It also follows an effort by the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management to try to sell Chrysler to General Motors after spending $7.4 billion a year ago to acquire the smallest of the Big Three automakers. 
 G.M. and Cerberus need banks and other investors to provide financing for the deal. But the tenuous state of the industry has made prospective investors, so far, hesitant to back the merger.
 ''Conditions in the industry are so perilous they are scaring away even the most fearless investors,'' said John Casesa, a principal in the automotive consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group in New York.
 The stocks of the two publicly traded American auto companies have plunged over the last year -- G.M.'s has fallen more than 80 percent, and Ford's is down 75 percent.
 With the specter of bankruptcy now hovering over the Big Three, the likelihood is increasing that the companies will appeal to the federal government for more financial assistance.
 ''It's reaching a point where we'll have to decide if we're willing to let the U.S. auto industry fail,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''It depends on the urgency that the government feels to save these companies.'' 
 The failure of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler would have far-reaching economic and social consequences. 
 Together, the automakers employ more than 200,000 workers in the United States and provide health care and pensions to more than a million Americans. In addition, their operations are lifelines to 20,000 auto dealers and countless suppliers, and the source of major tax revenue to states and local governments.
 Investors have been fleeing the stocks of G.M. and Ford since the spring, when high gas prices shifted consumers' tastes away from the big sport utility vehicles and pickups that were Detroit's most profitable offerings. 
 Since then, a weakening economy has frightened many shoppers away from dealer showrooms, leading to billions of dollars in losses for the car companies in the weakest auto market in 15 years.
 The financial crisis on Wall Street has accelerated the downturn. Because of tighter credit standards by the automakers' finance arms and other lenders, some prospective new-car buyers have been unable to get loans, further choking off sales. 
 Overall auto sales have slumped 12.8 percent in the first nine months of the year, but G.M. sales have dropped 17.8 percent, Ford's by 17.4 percent and Chrysler's by 25 percent.
 The decline appears to be accelerating this month, prompting analysts to further cut their forecasts for the industry.
 The research firm J. D. Power & Associates recently predicted that United States sales this year would total 13.6 million vehicles, a decline of 16 percent from a year ago, and said 2009 sales could fall as low as 13.2 million.
 G.M. lost $18.8 billion in the first six months of the year, and Ford lost $8.6 billion. Chrysler, because it is privately owned, does not report its financial results.
 The losses, however, are not as alarming to analysts as the rate at which G.M. and Ford are using up their cash reserves.
 Both companies are said to be burning through more than $1 billion in cash a month. Despite almost constant cuts in production and jobs, the automakers are unable to reduce costs fast enough to offset declining revenue.
 G.M. and Ford have repeatedly stated that they do not consider bankruptcy protection as an option. And some analysts, for now, say the talk of Chapter 11 filings is overblown.
 ''General Motors and Ford are both likely to survive, but we now see higher 2009 cash burn rates,'' said a research report published Tuesday by JPMorgan Securities.
 The cash crisis could prompt the auto companies to seek help from the federal government after the Nov. 4 presidential election.
 Washington recently financed a $25 billion loan program to help the automakers develop fuel-efficient vehicles that meet new federal mileage standards.
 Some industry executives, declining to be named, said they expected Detroit to request more financial aid.
 Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, said Tuesday that Washington should be prepared to help the auto industry in the same way it rescued the banking industry.
 ''I would think that most people understand the importance of the automobile industry as a whole to the industrial base,'' Senator Levin said. ''Clearly we've got to be ready to act if and when the situation gets to such a point that the additional support needs to be available.''
 Executives at G.M. and Cerberus, Chrysler's parent, say they believe they can help their two companies avoid such a fate by realizing substantial savings as a single entity. In addition, their combined cash hoards could help them through an economic downturn while they bleed cash. If a merger does occur, the combination will most likely result in thousands more job cuts. The talks, which began more than a month ago, were said to be continuing Tuesday, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
 At Ford, the sell-off by Mr. Kerkorian underscores how quickly the industry's fortunes have spiraled down. The 91-year-old billionaire investor had previously amassed major stakes in G.M. and Chrysler, only to dump his holdings after conflicts with management.
 But Mr. Kerkorian and his top deputy, Jerome York, appeared to have a much higher opinion of Ford's prospects when he first began accumulating its shares in April through his Tracinda investment arm.
 ''Tracinda believes that Ford management under the leadership of Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally will continue to show significant improvement in its results going forward,'' the company said in a federal filing.
 Mr. Kerkorian and Mr. York were said to be even more enthusiastic about Ford's outlook after a meeting in June with Mr. Mulally and William C. Ford Jr., Ford's executive chairman and leader of its founding family.
 But the steep slide in Ford's stock has made Mr. Kerkorian rethink his commitment. 
 On Tuesday, Tracinda said it had sold 7.3 million Ford shares for $17.7 million, and ''intends to further reduce its holdings of Ford common stock, including the possible sale of all of its remaining 133.5 million shares.''
 Mr. Kerkorian currently owns a 6.09 percent stake in Ford, worth about $290 million at Tuesday's closing price of $2.17.
 Ford executives were said to be stunned by the move. Analysts speculated that the abrupt resignations last week of two of Ford's outside board members may have contributed to Mr. Kerkorian's waning confidence in the company.
 A Ford spokesman, Mark Truby, declined comment on Mr. Kerkorian's decision.
 ''Questions regarding Tracinda's investment decision should be directed to Tracinda,'' Mr. Truby said. ''We remain confident in and focused on our plan to transform Ford into a lean global enterprise delivering profitable growth for all.''
 In its statement, Tracinda said ''current economic and market conditions'' prompted its move to reallocate resources from Ford to Mr. Kerkorian's interests in the casino and oil and gas industries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MERGERS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



888 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Even in Resilient Seattle, Office Vacancy Rate Is Rising

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Not long ago, Seattle looked invincible, even as an economic downturn was starting to plague the rest of the country.
High-profile Seattle-area companies like Microsoft and Amazon were adding thousands of jobs, trade with Asia was strong and Boeing was selling thousands of commercial jets. Deemed the best office market in the country in some nationwide reports, the city was attracting real estate investors hungry to buy office buildings and build new projects. It seemed as if nothing could go wrong.
''Out here in Seattle, we were living in a bubble, immune from the rest of the country,'' said Bruce Blume, founder of a real estate development firm, the Blume Company.
Such enthusiasm started deflating this year. Starbucks, based here, is slashing more than 7 percent of its global work force and closing hundreds of stores. Weyerhaeuser, the former lumber giant, trimmed 1,000 jobs and sold off divisions. Boeing workers went on strike, and home builders and mortgage companies shed staff. Starting next month, Alaska Airlines, also based in Seattle, is getting rid of 1,000 positions. 
Then Washington Mutual, the country's biggest savings-and-loan, was seized by federal regulators. JPMorgan Chase is buying the bank's deposits and assets, and is still formulating its plans for the company. An announcement is expected in December.
Job growth in Puget Sound, a four-county region that includes Seattle, is expected to shrink to 1.7 percent, from 2.9 percent, this year, according to Conway Pedersen Economics, an economic forecasting concern. ''Our economy has gone flat in 2008,'' said Dick Conway, an economist at the firm.
The collapse of WaMu, which employs more than 3,500 in downtown Seattle, rattled the city's confidence and led many companies to question their projects or expansions.
The vacancy rate for office space in the central business district reached 10 percent in the third quarter, according to Cushman & Wakefield, still below the nationwide average, but up from 8.4 percent a year ago.
With five new buildings, encompassing about two million square feet, opening next year, the vacancy rate is expected to hit 15 percent. Most of the new space has not been leased.
The vacancy rate could go even higher if WaMu -- the city's largest downtown tenant with 1.6 million square feet -- vacates space. Brokers estimate the bank could give up as much as one million square feet. The company built a new 42-story headquarters in downtown Seattle for $300 million and moved in only in 2006. It also rents space in other nearby buildings and has made some of that space available for sublease.
Other companies may shed space or are already trying to do so. Starbucks has 390,000 square feet up for sale or lease after spending an undisclosed amount two years ago to purchase an eight-story office building and adjacent parcels. Safeco, an insurance company that was purchased by the Liberty Mutual Group in April, is expected to sublease half of its space, or 200,000 square feet. Heller Ehrman, a century-old San Francisco law firm, is dissolving and may try to sublease more than 100,000 square feet.
''Nobody thought it would be like this,'' said Bob Mooney, a managing director at the commercial real estate firm Jones Lang LaSalle in Seattle. ''This has hit everyone.''
It's an abrupt turnaround since last year, when Grubb & Ellis, a commercial real estate brokerage, and the Urban Land Institute both named Seattle as one of the top five office markets in the country for investors. Sales of office buildings reached $11.47 billion in 2007, some seven times what they were in 2004, according to Real Capital Analytics. Deals so far this year have totaled only $375 million.
Although building prices have tumbled in 2008, it hasn't been enough to keep investors interested. Since last year, the price to acquire office space has shrunk 32 percent, to an average of $227 a square foot, according to Real Capital Analytics.
Now, credit has largely dried up and has forced many companies and developers to postpone deals. Early this month, a buyer for Qwest Communication International's 32-story office tower backed out after losing his financing. The building has been on the market since March.
Alfred Clise knows this all too well. The president of a family real estate development firm, Clise Properties, withdrew a 13-acre parcel in downtown Seattle, mainly parking lots and low-rise office buildings, from the market in April, after nearly a year in which he couldn't find a buyer willing to offer more than $600 million and to develop the area in a way that he believed it deserved. Mr. Clise says he thinks the parcel would be an ideal site for a grand multibillion-dollar development like Rockefeller Center in New York.
It has also become difficult to fill buildings. Rents have jumped 13 percent from a year earlier, to $35.80 a square foot annually in the third quarter, in part because some big landlords bought at the top of the market and are trying to cover their high costs. As enticement, brokers say landlords are throwing in three to six months of free rent, and as much as $100 a square foot in tenant improvements. Still, these incentives have not been enough.
''Everything is on hold,'' said David Gurry, a senior vice president at Colliers International in Seattle. ''Tenants are waiting to see what happens with WaMu.''
Mr. Blume, a developer with a reputation for timing the market well, is still looking for tenants for a five-story life science and laboratory building that is scheduled to open in a month. Another project with 575,000 square feet of office, retail and biotech space is planned nearby, but it may be suspended unless a tenant can be found.
Schnitzer West, a developer based in Bellevue, Wash., may put its plans for a 750,000-square-foot tower, to be called M5 Commerce Centre, on the back burner next year if leasing doesn't go well for its other projects, which have a total of 562,000 square feet: an office building opening this month and another to be completed next fall.
Dan Ivanoff, Schnitzer West's founder and managing investment partner, is one of many developers pinning their hopes on the technology, biotech and aerospace industries. Seven years ago, the three industries suffered through the collapse of technology stocks and the travel slowdown after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Lately, a number of concerns with connections to these industries have been active. In July, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation broke ground on a new 12-acre headquarters just north of downtown. Amazon is more than doubling its 1.6 million square feet of leased space. Construction of the first of 11 office buildings started in January, and a few months ago the bookseller said it had options to occupy another 500,000 square feet.
Microsoft, which has hired people every year since it opened in the region in 1979, continues to hire and lease new space. The technology giant, which has leased nearly two million square feet outside town over the last 18 months, is rumored to be close to a lease for 350,000 square feet in South Lake Union, a neighborhood a little more than a mile from downtown.
''Seattle is still in a much better position than the rest of the country,'' said Greg Inglin, an associate at Pacific Real Estate Partners in Seattle, ''and we have Microsoft and Amazon to thank.''
Correction: October 29, 2008, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on the Square Feet pages last Wednesday about the increasing vacancy rate for office space in Seattle referred incorrectly to the corporate structure of Weyerhaeuser, which has trimmed jobs and sold off divisions. The company has discussed converting itself to a real estate investment trust, but it has not yet decided to do so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, the headquarters ofWashington Mutual, whose future is clouded. From top, a life science building at 1100 Eastlake has yet to find any tenants
 the sale of Qwest Communications' building, second from right, fell through. Starbucks' offices at 83 King Street are empty.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); RETAILERS (72%); STRIKES (72%); AIRLINES (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BOEING CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



889 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Developer of Nets' Arena Can Use Tax-Exempt Bonds

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Federal tax officials ruled this week that the developer of a billion-dollar basketball arena for the Nets at the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn can use tax-exempt bonds to pay for the building, providing some rare good news for the delay-plagued project.
 The ruling would also allow the Yankees and the Mets to issue a new round of city-issued tax-exempt bonds worth hundreds of millions of dollars for their new homes in the Bronx and Queens. 
 Under the new ruling, federal officials essentially gave a green light for the three sports arenas, among the world's most expensive, to use tax-exempt bonds. But tax experts said that the ruling would not allow other governments to issue such bonds on behalf of professional sports teams. The rule was adopted on Monday by the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service. 
 Still, the New York teams may have difficulty finding investors who will buy the bonds, given the current turmoil on Wall Street and in the credit markets. 
 Critics of public subsidies for sports teams were dismayed by the long-awaited ruling. ''This is the same kind of socialism for the rich, and capitalism for the rest of us that's gotten us into the current economic mess,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester.
 The ruling came four days before Randy Levine, president of the Yankees, and two city officials are due to testify at a Congressional hearing investigating the tax-exempt financing of the new $1.3 billion Yankee Stadium. 
 Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, a Democrat from Ohio who is chairman of the subcommittee holding the hearing on Friday, has said that city officials could be prosecuted if the I.R.S. determines that they had lied about the value of the land on which the ballpark sits.
 The Yankees declined to discuss the ruling and a Mets owner, Jeffrey Wilpon, did not return calls requesting comment.
 The Bloomberg administration said on Tuesday that the ruling was ''good news,'' providing transitional relief for projects in the pipeline, all of which received other subsidies as well, including substantial tax breaks. It was especially important, the city said, for the Brooklyn arena, the first phase of Atlantic Yards, a 22-acre, $4 billion residential and commercial project.
 ''We are looking forward to working with the state and the Nets to move the project forward,'' said Janel Paterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Bruce C. Ratner, the developer whose Atlantic Yards project has been hobbled by delays, lawsuits and a weak economy, was elated. 
 ''We are of course very pleased with the Treasury Department regulation,'' said Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Mr. Ratner, chief executive of Forest City Ratner. ''The tax-exempt financing was always part of the plan for the development of the arena and the regulation released today acknowledges that. The regulation will help us move forward with a project that is critical to the ongoing economic vitality of Brooklyn and the city.''
 Before Mr. Ratner can break ground, he must contend with the latest lawsuit challenging Atlantic Yards. He said he had planned to start the arena by the end of the year. But after a state appellate court refused to dismiss the suit in September, Mr. Ratner said he may have to delay construction for another six months.
 Opponents of the project, who say Atlantic Yards will overwhelm the surrounding community and worsen traffic congestion, say they have not given up. Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, said he does not believe that Mr. Ratner's arena qualifies for tax-exempt bonds under the I.R.S. ruling.
 Mr. Goldstein said it appeared to him that federal tax officials went out of their way to help the developer, which he said ''makes no sense'' when the federal government is in the midst of a costly bailout of the banking industry.
 The city has already issued $1.5 billion in bonds on behalf of the new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets. This allows the teams, which are responsible for making the annual payments on the bonds, to save million of dollars a year in financing costs. 
 The federal tax laws were revised in 1986, in part to make it harder for local governments to issue tax-exempt bonds on behalf of sports teams. But in 2006, the I.R.S. approved a plan submitted by the Bloomberg administration to issue bonds for the Yankees, the Mets and possibly the Nets. 
 The Yankees promptly raised $1 billion, including $943 million in bonds, while the Mets raised $612.9 million, including $547.35 million in tax-exempt financing.
 But months later, after those bond sales came under criticism, federal tax officials moved to tighten the rules governing the bonds, a proposal that the Bloomberg administration had lobbied against.
 The proposed change would have jeopardized the Yankees' plans to obtain another $250 million in tax-exempt financing and the Mets' desire to raise an additional $100 million, as well as the Nets' project. The Treasury Department essentially allowed those projects to proceed on a grandfather clause, based on the 2006 ruling.
 Yet new questions have emerged about the way the city and the Yankees structured the deal and valued the Bronx stadium's land, which varied between $21 million and $204 million, according to several different assessments. 
 Under the team's arrangement with the city, the Yankees will make annual payments in lieu of taxes that are roughly equivalent to the bonds' debt service, about $57 million. But critics contend that the city may have inflated the value of the land.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK METS (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



890 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye Greasepaint: Veteran Showman Exits the Tent

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
No longer shall he be lord of the ring. 
 Paul Binder, the 66-year-old founder, artistic director and ringmaster of the Big Apple Circus, will be stepping away from the tanbark next year after three decades as boss man of the little top. 
 Mr. Binder is master of ceremonies and principal public symbol of this one-ring show, which begins its 31st season on Thursday in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center. The new production, ''Play On!'' -- featuring 4 horses, 8 dogs and 28 humans from 12 countries in a heated 1,600-seat blue Italian tent -- will continue its traditional holiday run through Jan. 18. 
 ''Finally I can get off the road,'' said Mr. Binder, who for decades has been ringmaster half of each year. ''I didn't want to do this until I was on my deathbed.'' 
 The new show will be Mr. Binder's last production, though he will remain behind the scenes with Big Apple, taking the titles of artistic adviser and founding artistic director. He is to focus on fund-raising and planning, and will travel the world searching for new circus acts. Next year his place in the spotlight will be taken by Carrie Harvey, billed as host of ''Play On!'' 
 He will be succeeded as artistic director -- and circus boss -- by Guillaume Dufresnoy, Big Apple's 48-year-old general manager. A Bordeaux-born former aerialist with the national circuses of France and Switzerland, Mr. Dufresnoy has been a performer or manager at Big Apple for 21 years. For the last 11, he has been second in command to Mr. Binder. 
 Though creating the show has always been a collaborative process, ''ultimately I would make the call,'' Mr. Binder said. ''Now Guillaume will have the final word.'' 
 The street-smart Big Apple show that made New York a circus town has come a long way from the spunky little counterculture entertainment that Mr. Binder and his co-founder, Michael Christensen, first presented in 1977 in a green 1,000-seat tent set up on landfill destined to become Battery Park City. 
 After earning a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from Columbia University, Mr. Binder became a television stage manager for Julia Child in Boston, and then a Manhattan talent booker for ''The Merv Griffin Show.'' After that he ran away with the San Francisco Mime Troupe in the early 1970s, performing political theater with Mr. Christensen, then a comedic actor. 
 In the mid-1970s the two left the troupe to work as street jugglers ''living off our wits,'' Mr. Binder recalled. They tossed quips, clubs and hats in London, Paris, Italy, Athens and Istanbul before returning to France to perform in the Nouveau Cirque de Paris, a legendary one-ring show. 
 Soon Mr. Binder had the idee fixe to create a one-ring circus in Manhattan, and did so in a show that presented its performers to audiences ''sometimes awkwardly, sometimes a trifle self-consciously, but altogether winningly,'' according to a review of the show's second season by Richard Eder in The New York Times. 
 The circus has refined its family-pleasing aesthetic of intimacy, artistry, fun and sense of wonder, and now tours to 10 cities and has a $21 million budget for the show; the circus's rehearsal complex in Walden, N.Y.; and its charitable divisions, which include school programs and a Clown Care Unit that employs 90 clowns to visit children in hospitals. 
 Mr. Binder ''took the European one-ring style and put his own signature on it,'' said a competitor, Kenneth Feld, chief executive of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus. In 2000 Mr. Feld took on Big Apple in Bryant Park with Barnum's Kaleidoscape, a high-end, one-ring holiday-season show that folded its tent forever on New Year's Day 2001. 
 ''Paul has done a great job with the show for three decades,'' Mr. Feld said, ''but just staying alive isn't enough. He's done much more than that, and my hat goes off to him.'' 
 Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy, called Mr. Binder ''a cultural landmark to generations of kids and their parents.'' The conservancy designated Mr. Binder and Mr. Christensen as ''living landmarks'' in 2000. ''How many people say, 'Let's start a circus, and make it nonprofit,' and have the imagination and courage and whimsy to keep it going for three decades?'' she asked. 
 Still, in Mr. Binder's final season at center ring, Big Apple, like many cultural institutions, is facing uncertainty brought on by the Wall Street crisis, which could suppress ticket sales and fund-raising. But given the circus's loyal patrons, including grandchildren of the first generation of fans, Chris Wearing, chairman of the circus's 35-person board, said he hoped that ''parents may want to be with their families at our show more than ever.'' 
 Another challenge is increasing competition. For nearly three decades Mr. Binder's show largely owned Manhattan's holiday-circus season, but last year Big Apple -- which spent $2.5 million on its production -- was challenged during the holidays not only by ''Wintuk,'' a $20 million Cirque du Soleil show in the WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden, but also by five other circuses, including the Apollo Circus of Soul in Harlem. 
 Despite that, Big Apple's $15.5 million in ticket sales and attendance of 475,000 set a record. This season, though, the Apollo show won't be back, and Soleil -- as circus people call it -- is revamping ''Wintuk'' with new acts after mixed reviews last year. It is to open in previews on Oct. 30, with an official opening on Nov. 14. 
 Mr. Wearing said that despite the economic downturn, the circus hoped to create a summer season and was exploring the possibility of international tours ''since we've been invited to perform in Asia.'' 
 Mr. Binder will be expected to unleash his charisma at occasional future ceremonial events, including fund-raisers, Mr. Wearing added. This ''is not one of those 'move him out and say he'll be doing special projects' things,'' Mr. Wearing said. ''There is so much we want to do. We want to extend the show and the season, and develop an endowment. We need Paul to protect the franchise, and his legacy, in the future.'' 
 Mr. Binder said he had been working out the details of his transition with the circus board for several years. ''We wanted to create a cultural institution that would last after me, and now it will,'' said Mr. Binder, who grew up in Brooklyn. 
 As Mr. Christensen put it, ''Nothing stays the same, and something that is alive -- like this show -- has to grow.'' (Mr. Christensen, 61, is formally the co-founder, while Mr. Binder is the founder because he came up with the circus idea in 1976.)
 As Mr. Binder separates from Big Apple, he hopes to teach theater performance and management and to work on his autobiography. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''I suppose I'll become an eminence grise. I'm already grise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This season is the last as ringmaster for Paul Binder, founder of Big Apple Circus. He will remain behind the scenes as artistic adviser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Paul Binder dresses for a Big Apple show in Sterling, Va.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); THEATER (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); FUNDRAISING (66%); LANDFILLS (50%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (94%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



891 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Reports Drive Down Shares

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Falling confidence in the corporate sector sent stocks lower on Tuesday as investors digested a discouraging batch of earnings reports and a new initiative from the Federal Reserve to shore up money-market mutual funds. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 231.77 points, or 2.5 percent, to 9,033.66 after Caterpillar and DuPont, two members of the blue-chip index, said their earnings declined in the third quarter and suggested a bleak outlook for the economy. 
 Caterpillar, a top maker of earthmoving equipment, called the current situation ''the worst in years.''
 Policy makers and economists have warned that the economy is in for a rough ride over the next few months as the credit crisis hurts businesses and consumer demand. The job market is expected to weaken further and the housing slump has shown no evidence of letting up.
 In the credit markets, however, signs of improvement continued to appear. Borrowing rates between banks dropped again, a crucial show of confidence among financial institutions. The benchmark rate for overnight interbank loans, known as Libor, dropped to its lowest level in more than a month, a significant improvement from just a few days ago when it neared record highs.
 But stock investors seemed more focused on the corporate sector, including a report that the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian had started to sell his stake in Ford Motor. Mr. Kerkorian said his investment company, Tracinda, sold 7.3 million shares of Ford stock on Monday at a huge loss and intended to further reduce its remaining 6.1 percent stake. The move underscored the weakening state of Ford and its two Detroit rivals, General Motors and Chrysler, which are in merger talks.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 30.35 points, or 3.1 percent, to 955.05, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 73.35 points, or 4.1 percent, to 1,696.68. Technology stocks led the declines, a day after Texas Instruments said sales would fall short of expectations. Texas Instruments shares dropped 6.3 percent.
 Shares of Ford fell 6.9 percent. Caterpillar dropped 5 percent and DuPont was off by 8 percent. 
 Investors may also have sold shares to lock in gains from Monday's 413-point rally in the Dow.
 European stocks ended mixed, turning mostly lower in the afternoon a day after France announced a big injection of cash into French banks.
 Under the plan announced late Monday by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, the government will buy 10.5 billion euros, or about $14 billion, of subordinated debt from six major lenders in exchange for a pledge that they will increase lending to businesses and consumers.
 Shares in London and Frankfurt fell more than 1 percent. In Paris, stocks rose 0.8 percent. Oil prices fell $3.36 to settle at $70.89 a barrel in New York trading. 
 Interest rates were lower.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year bill was up 27/32, at 102 4/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.74 percent, down from 3.84 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week and 52-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart shows line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (79%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MERGERS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EURO (72%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



892 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Bailout (and Buildup)

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The 2 is back. Last week, U.S. retail gasoline prices fell below $3 a gallon -- to an average of $2.91 -- the lowest level in almost a year. Why does this news leave me with mixed feelings?
 Because in the middle of this wrenching economic crisis, with unemployment rising and 401(k)'s shrinking, it would be a real source of relief for many Americans to get a break at the pump. Today's declining gasoline prices act like a tax cut for consumers and can save $15 to $20 a tank-full for an S.U.V.-driving family, compared with when gasoline was $4.11 a gallon in July. 
 Yet, it is impossible for me to ignore the fact that when gasoline hit $4.11 a gallon we changed -- a lot. Americans drove less, polluted less, exercised more, rode more public transportation and, most importantly, overwhelmed Detroit with demands for smaller, more fuel-efficient, hybrid and electric cars. The clean energy and efficiency industries saw record growth -- one of our few remaining engines of real quality job creation.
 But with little credit available today for new energy start-ups, and lower oil prices making it harder for existing renewables like wind and solar to scale, and a weak economy making it nearly impossible for Congress to pass a carbon tax or gasoline tax that would make clean energy more competitive, what will become of our budding clean-tech revolution? 
 This moment feels to me like a bad B-movie rerun of the 1980s. And I know how this movie ends -- with our re-addiction to oil and OPEC, as well as corrosive uncertainty for our economy, trade balance, security and environment. 
 ''Is the economic crisis going to be the end of green?'' asks David Rothkopf, energy consultant and author of ''Superclass.'' ''Or, could green be the way to end the economic crisis?''
 It has to be the latter. We can't afford a financial bailout that also isn't a green buildup -- a buildup of a new clean energy industry that strengthens America and helps the planet. 
 But how do we do that without any policy to affect the price signal for gasoline and carbon? 
 Here are some ideas: First, Washington could impose a national renewable energy standard that would require every utility in the country to produce 20 percent of its power from clean, non-CO2-emitting, energy sources -- wind, solar, hydro, nuclear, biomass -- by 2025. About half the states already have these in place, but they are all different. It would create a huge domestic pull for renewable energy if we had a uniform national mandate.
 Second, Washington could impose a national requirement that every state move its utilities to a system of ''decoupling-plus.'' This is the technical term for changing the way utilities make money -- shifting them from getting paid for how much electricity or gas they get you to consume to getting paid for how much electricity or gas they get you to save. Several states have already moved down this path.
 Third, an idea offered by Andy Karsner, former assistant secretary of energy, would be to modify the tax code so that any company that invests in new domestic manufacturing capacity for clean energy technology -- or procures any clean energy system or energy savings device that is made by an American manufacturer -- can write down the entire cost of the investment via a tax credit and/or accelerated depreciation in the first year. 
 ''I'm talking about anything from energy efficient windows to water heaters to industrial boilers to solar panels, and the job creating, manufacturing facilities that produce them -- anything that makes us more efficient, lean and economically competitive and comes from a domestic, American source,'' said Karsner.
 He also suggests using some of the money from any stimulus package to directly incentivize and support states' efforts to implement and intelligently modernize their building codes to get already well-established national ''best practices'' quickly into their marketplaces.
 Lastly, we need the next president to be an energy efficiency trendsetter, starting by reinventing the inaugural parade. Get rid of the black stretch limos and double-plated armored Chevy Tahoes inching down Pennsylvania Avenue. Instead, let the next president announce that he will use no vehicles on inauguration day that get less than 30 miles per gallon. He could invite all car companies to participate in the historic drive with their best available American-made, fuel-efficient, innovative vehicle.
 Finally, if Congress passes another stimulus package, it can't just be another round of $600 checks to go buy flat-screen TVs made in China. It has to also include bridges to somewhere -- targeted investments in scientific research, mass transit, domestic clean-tech manufacturing and energy efficiency that will make us a more productive and innovative society, one with more skills, more competitiveness, more productivity and better infrastructure to lead the next great industrial revolution: E.T. -- energy technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (87%); WIND ENERGY (87%); FUEL TAX (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CARTELS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); HYBRID VEHICLES (72%); BIOMASS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (52%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



893 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Come for the Prices. Stay for the Movie.

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

DATELINE: DEER PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The Tanger Outlets at the Arches, a $300 million outlet center, is to open here on Thursday with 75 stores as well as some entertainment options that would be more common in a conventional mall.
 While the center is opening in a highly uncertain economic climate, real estate professionals say they do not expect this to harm its long-term prospects.
 The Arches is an outdoor mall with covered walkways in this Suffolk County community, 35 miles east of New York City and 35 miles west of an existing Tanger outlet center in Riverhead. It is near the Long Island Expressway, Southern State Parkway and Sagtikos Parkway, and will provide free shuttle bus service to and from the Deer Park station of the Long Island Rail Road. 
 The center is meant to resemble a Tuscan village and features arches in the design of the buildings and in the covered walkways.
 The whole development encompasses 800,000 square feet. In the phase that is opening this week, 525,000 square feet is leased by outlet retailers and 150,000 square feet is leased by nonretailers. Not all stores will be opening this week; ultimately, there will be more than 100.
 The project is being jointly developed by Apollo Real Estate Advisors, based in Manhattan; the Blumenfeld Development Group of Syosset, N.Y.; and Tanger Factory Outlet Centers, a publicly traded real estate investment trust in Greensboro, N.C.
 About the Tuscan design, David Blumenfeld, a Blumenfeld principal, said, ''We thought it would be something different, something that's not been seen before on Long Island.''
 An additional 125,000 square feet will be completed next year and will probably be leased by a national retailer that is not an outlet store, possibly a big-box store like Best Buy, to create ''cross shopping,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said. 
 The entertainment options at the Arches include a 16-screen 67,500-square-foot Regal Cinemas multiplex, with a 360-seat Imax movie theater; a 32,500-square-foot New York Sports Clubs health club; and chain restaurants like Chipotle, Johnny Rockets and Nathan's. The center also has a courtyard with outdoor seating, and a fountain area that will be converted into an ice skating rink in the winter.
 The retail mix at the Arches includes an unusually large percentage of stores that are outlets of high-end retailers: 125,000 square feet is occupied by luxury stores, anchored by a 32,000-square-foot Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center and a 29,000-square-foot Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th. Other luxury retailers include Kate Spade, Calvin Klein, Betsey Johnson and Juicy Couture.
 The Last Call store is Neiman Marcus's first store on Long Island. The merchant originally planned to open a full-line store in a luxury mall proposed by Taubman Centers in Oyster Bay, but the mall's development has been delayed by a lengthy legal battle.
 Wayne Hussey, senior vice president of real estate and store development for Neiman Marcus, said the Deer Park store was slightly larger than other Last Call stores, because, he said, ''Long Island is very dense in terms of population.''
 Other large stores at the Arches include a 15,000-square-foot Nike Factory Store, a 20,000-square-foot Old Navy and a 46,200-square-foot Christmas Tree Shop, the first on Long Island.
 Steven B. Tanger, president and chief operating officer of Tanger, said the Arches would be the largest of the company's 32 centers in 22 states when it was completed. He predicted it would be one of the country's highest-volume outlet centers, but declined to quantify sales or rents. 
 Richard DiGeronimo, a Mineola, N.Y., real estate appraiser and adviser, estimates that annual rents range from the mid-s$20 to low-s$30 per square foot for retailers, and more for nonretail tenants. That rent, he said, would not include building operating expenses, common charges and taxes.
 Despite the current trouble in the financial markets, real estate professionals say that the Arches' long-term prospects appear strong.
 According to CoStar Group, which tracks the real estate industry, the retail vacancy rate in the first quarter of 2008 in Nassau and Suffolk Counties was 5.2 percent, somewhat lower than the rate in many major retail centers. Also, Mr. DiGeronimo said, ''there is very little new retail product coming online; the Arches is one of the larger developments on Long Island in the last year. They should be able to capture a reasonable market share.''
 Jonathan Habermann, a securities analyst at Goldman Sachs who follows Tanger, said many outlet centers did not have luxury retailers, a multiplex movie theater or health club. ''But given the location and attractive demographics, there's going to be quite a bit more entertainment appeal'' at the Arches, he said. ''They're trying to keep shoppers there longer. It's going to be a cross between a mall and an outlet center, and create a destination for them.'' 
 The Arches had some difficulty attracting tenants because clauses on retailers' leases at Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Orange County, N.Y., owned by Simon Property Group, and the Americana, a luxury mall in Manhasset owned by Fifth Avenue of Long Island Realty Associates, prevented some stores from leasing in Deer Park, Mr. Blumenfeld said. He said that 20 to 30 tenants at Woodbury Common and several at Americana had ''expressed interest in opening at the Arches. Some from Woodbury Common have been able to renegotiate their leases.'' 
 A spokesman for Simon declined to comment, and officials for the Americana did not respond to telephone messages seeking comment.
 Nathan Isbee, who follows Tanger for Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore, said that it ''remains to be seen how deep this economic slowdown gets.'' 
 But in tough times, outlet stores might be expected to hold up relatively well, he said. ''Consumers are going to want to trade down,'' Mr. Isbee said. ''They'll be looking for a bargain in this environment. But there could come a point where even inexpensive apparel becomes too much for the customer to bear. At the end of the day, outlet center purchases are discretionary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With architecture that is meant to evoke a Tuscan village, the Tanger Outlets at the Arches opens this week in Deer Park, N.Y. The $300 million center will feature luxury outlet stores.
 The Arches outlet center will include a 16-screen multiplex, a health club and an outdoor skating rink in the winter.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (87%); FILM (85%); THEME RESTAURANTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); MOVIE THEATERS (67%); FITNESS CENTERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (57%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%); ICE SKATING (50%)

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS STORES (80%); TANGER FACTORY OUTLET CENTERS INC (54%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (50%)

TICKER: SKT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (50%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



894 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE DEBT TRAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: Drawing a Bead On Debtors

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
Brenda Jerez hardly seems like the kind of person lenders would fight over.
Three years ago, she became ill with cancer and ran up $50,000 on her credit cards after she was forced to leave her accounting job. She filed for bankruptcy protection last year.
For months after she emerged from insolvency last fall, 6 to 10 new credit card and auto loan offers arrived every week that specifically mentioned her bankruptcy and, despite her poor credit history, dangled a range of seemingly too-good-to-be-true financing options.
''Good news! You are approved for both Visa and MasterCard -- that's right, 2 platinum credit cards!'' read one buoyant letter sent this spring to Ms. Jerez, offering a $10,000 credit limit if only she returned a $35 processing fee with her application.
''It's like I've got some big tag: target this person so you can get them back into debt,'' said Ms. Jerez, of Jersey City, who still gets offers, even as it has become clear that loans to troubled borrowers have become a chief cause of the financial crisis. One letter that arrived last month, from First Premier Bank, promoted a platinum MasterCard for people with ''less-than-perfect credit.'' 
Singling out even struggling American consumers like Ms. Jerez is one of the overlooked causes of the debt boom and the resulting crisis, which threatens to choke the global economy.
Using techniques that grew more sophisticated over the last decade, businesses comb through an array of sources, including bank and court records, to create detailed profiles of the financial lives of more than 100 million Americans.
They then sell that information as marketing leads to banks, credit card issuers and mortgage brokers, who fiercely compete to find untapped customers -- even those who would normally have trouble qualifying for the credit they were being pitched.
These tailor-made offers land in mailboxes, or are sold over the phone by telemarketers, just ahead of the next big financial step in consumers' lives, creating the appearance of almost irresistible serendipity.
These leads, which typically cost a few cents for each household profile, are often called ''trigger lists'' in the industry. One company, First American, sells a list of consumers to lenders called a ''farming kit.''
This marketplace for personal data has been a crucial factor in powering the unrivaled lending machine in the United States. European countries, by contrast, have far stricter laws limiting the sale of personal information. Those countries also have far lower per-capita debt levels.
The companies that sell and use such data say they are simply providing a service to people who are likely to need it. But privacy advocates say that buying data dossiers on consumers gives banks an unfair advantage.
''They get people who they know are in trouble, they know are desperate, and they aggressively market a product to them which is not in their best interest,'' said Jim Campen, executive director of the Americans for Fairness in Lending, an advocacy group that fights abusive credit and lending practices. ''It's the wrong product at the wrong time.''
Compiling Histories
To knowledgeable consumers, the offers can seem eerily personalized and aimed at pushing them into poor financial decisions.
Like many Americans, Brandon Laroque, a homeowner from Raleigh, N.C., gets many unsolicited letters asking him to refinance from the favorable fixed rate on his home to a riskier variable rate and to take on new, high-rate credit cards.
The offers contain personal details, like the outstanding balance on his mortgage, which lenders can easily obtain from the credit bureaus like Equifax, Experian and TransUnion.
''It almost seems like they are trying to get you into trouble,'' he says.
The American information economy has been evolving for decades. Equifax, for example, has been compiling financial histories of consumers for more than a century. Since 1970, use of that data has been regulated by the Federal Trade Commission under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. But Equifax and its rivals started offering new sets of unregulated demographic data over the last decade -- not just names, addresses and Social Security numbers of people, but also their marital status, recent births in their family, education history, even the kind of car they own, their television cable service and the magazines they read.
During the housing boom, ''The mortgage industry was coming up with very creative lending products and then they were leaning heavily on us to find prospects to make the offers to,'' said Steve Ely, president of North America Personal Solutions at Equifax.
The data agencies start by categorizing consumers into groups. Equifax, for example, says that 115 million Americans are listed in its ''Niches 2.0'' database. Its ''Oodles of Offspring'' grouping contains heads of household who make an average of $36,000 a year, are high school graduates and have children, blue-collar jobs and a low home value. People in the ''Midlife Munchkins'' group make $71,000 a year, have children or grandchildren, white-collar jobs and a high level of education.
Profiling Methods
Other data vendors offer similar categories of names, which are bought by companies like credit card issuers that want to sell to that demographic group.
In addition to selling these buckets of names, data compilers and banks also employ a variety of methods to estimate the likelihood that people will need new debt, even before they know it themselves.
One technique is called ''predictive modeling.'' Financial institutions and their consultants might look at who is responding favorably to an existing mailing campaign -- one that asks people to refinance their homes, for example -- and who has simply thrown the letter in the trash.
The attributes of the people who bite on the offer, like their credit card debt, cash savings and home value, are then plugged into statistical models. Those models then are used for the next round of offers, sent to people with similar financial lives.
The brochure for one Equifax data product, called TargetPoint Predictive Triggers, advertises ''advanced profiling techniques'' to identify people who show a ''statistical propensity to acquire new credit'' within 90 days.
An Equifax spokesman said the exact formula was part of the company's ''secret sauce.''
Data brokers also sell another controversial product called ''mortgage triggers.'' When consumers apply for home loans, banks check their credit history with one of the three credit bureaus.
In 2005, Experian, and then rivals Equifax and TransUnion, started selling lists of these consumers to other banks and brokers, whose loan officers would then contact the customer and compete for the loan.
At Visions Marketing Services, a company in Lancaster, Pa., that conducts telemarketing campaigns for banks, mortgage trigger leads were marketing gold during the housing boom.
''We called people who were astounded,'' said Alan E. Geller, chief executive of the firm. ''They said, 'I can't believe you just called me. How did you know we were just getting ready to do that?' ''
''We were just sitting back laughing,'' he said. In the midst of the high-flying housing market, mortgage triggers became more than a nuisance or potential invasion of privacy. They allowed aggressive brokers to aim at needy, overwhelmed consumers with offers that often turned out to be too good to be true. When Mercurion Suladdin, a county librarian in Sandy, Utah, filled out an application with Ameriquest to refinance her home, she quickly got a call from a salesman at Beneficial, a division of HSBC bank where she had taken out a previous loan.
The salesman said he desperately wanted to keep her business. To get the deal, he drove to her house from nearby Salt Lake City and offered her a free Ford Taurus at signing.
What she thought was a fixed-interest rate mortgage soon adjusted upward, and Ms. Suladdin fell behind on her payments and came close to foreclosure before Utah's attorney general and the activist group Acorn interceded on behalf of her and other homeowners in the state.
''I was being bombarded by so many offers that, after a while, it just got more and more confusing,'' she says of her ill-fated decision not to carefully read the fine print on her loan documents.
Data brokers and lenders defend mortgage triggers and compare them to offering a second medical opinion.
''This is an opportunity for consumers to receive options and to understand what's available,'' said Ben Waldshan, chief executive of Data Warehouse, a direct marketing company in Boca Raton, Fla.
Among its other services, according to its Web site, Data Warehouse charges banks $499 for 2,500 names of subprime borrowers who have fallen into debt and need to refinance.
Representatives of these data firms argue that their products merely help lenders more carefully pair people with the proper loans, at their moment of greatest need. The onus is on the banks, they say, to use that information responsibly.
''The whole reason companies like Experian and other information providers exist is not only to expand the opportunity to sell to consumers but to mitigate the risk associated with lending to consumers,'' said Peg Smith, executive vice president and chief privacy officer at Experian. ''It is up to the bank to keep the right balance.''
Decrease in Mailings
In today's tight credit world, the number of these kinds of credit offers is falling rapidly. Banks mailed about 1.8 billion offers for secured and unsecured loans during the first six months of this year, down 33 percent from the same period in 2006, according to Mintel Comperemedia, a tracking firm.
Countrywide Financial, one of the most aggressive companies in the selling of subprime loans during the housing boom, says it sent out between six million and eight million pieces of targeted mail a month between 2004 and 2006. That is in addition to tens of thousands of telemarketing phone calls urging consumers to either refinance their homes or take out new loans.
Even with the drop-off over the last year in such mailings, lenders continue to be eager customers for refined data on consumers, say people at banks and data companies. The information on consumers has become so specific that banks now use it not just to determine whom to aim at and when, but what specifically to say in each offer.
For example, unsolicited letters from banks now often state what each person's individual savings might be if a new home loan or new credit card replaced their existing loan or card.
Peter Harvey, chief executive of Intellidyn, a consulting company based in Hingham, Mass., that helps banks with their targeted marketing, says the industry's newest challenge is to personalize each offer without appearing too invasive.
He describes one marketing campaign several years ago that crossed the line: a bank purchased satellite imagery of a particular neighborhood and on each envelope that contained a personalized credit offer, highlighted that recipient's home on the image.
The campaign flopped. ''It was just too eerie,'' Mr. Harvey said.
The Debt Trap: This series is examining the surge in consumer debt and the lenders who made it possible. Additional articles in the series are at nytimes.com/debt

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After emerging from insolvency, Brenda Jerez still received credit card and loan offers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''It's like I've got some big tag: target this person so you can get them back into debt,'' Brenda Jerez said of credit offers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) CHARTS: Fishing for the Next Customer: An example of how lenders use personal information to target new customers.(Sources: Paul Maiste, Lityx
 Eric Siegel, Prediction Impact) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TELEMARKETING (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (91%); FULTON FINANCIAL CORP (55%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%); FULT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



895 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: For Fans at Tropicana Field, a Nosh and a Pennant

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

 BODY:
 Some people think the Tampa Bay Rays are in the World Series because of the talent of the players. Not enough attention, however, has been given to the Rays' secret weapon -- the ancient American staple, the peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
 This is true. The Rays are here because of the outstanding good karma of allowing fans to bring their own food and drinks into the dome, which they could not do until three years ago. One reporter recalls not being allowed to bring a sandwich into Tropicana Field under the old ownership. 
 In most sports arenas and stadiums in this great land of freedom and opportunity, people can probably slip in a sandwich or unobtrusive snacks. But with inspections at every gate, fans are not allowed to bring anything substantial or drinks of any kind -- and often get the feeling they will be taken under the stands and beaten with rubber hoses if they try.
 This is not necessarily about security, either. It is because most team owners believe in the American dream of shaking every last nickel out of the customer. And look how well that ethic is working these days.
 The top suits of the Rays are not exactly moonbeam guys. They are refugees from the world that gave us chief executive buyouts and A.I.G. partridge hunts and bailouts for billionaires. But once they took over the moribund Rays for the 2006 season, they got religion, so to speak. 
 Last November, the ownership exorcised half of the old team name, the Devil Rays, in a quest for -- what's that word again? -- change.
 ''We were tied to the past, and the past wasn't necessarily something we wanted to be known for,'' said the owner, Stuart L. Sternberg, a former partner at Goldman Sachs. The team did honor the actual cownose ray by keeping a tank full of them at the dome. 
 The new Rays owners had already made a statement when they offered free parking for their first two seasons.
 ''The fans were already spending a lot for tickets,'' said Matthew Silverman, 33, the club's president, a former investment banker.
 This year, the Rays charged $10 a car -- but parking was free for four or more passengers. Management thereby won a doubleheader of sorts -- theoretically, the Rays instantly became a green franchise, cutting down on noxious car fumes, but also encouraged fans to bring along a fourth passenger: ''Johnny, why don't you bring along your friend Billy? That way we get free parking.'' Not necessarily economical, but how many consumer impulses are logical, anyway?
 The true winners under the new ownership were the fans who were allowed to bring food into the ballpark rather than dropping a $10 bill on the counter for a hot dog and hoping the cashier might hand back a few quarters.
 ''It's tough to feed a family,'' said Silverman, who grew up in Dallas and used to go the Rangers' ballpark, one of the few places where food was allowed. 
 ''I would sit in the bleachers with my family and eat fried chicken,'' Silverman said. 
 Under this sane policy, fans can actually bring carrots and apples and cereal to the ballpark and not have them wrestled away by gristly guards. I know what you are thinking: ''There's no healthy eating in baseball,'' what with the mandatory calories and salt and sugar laced into the junk food sold in the corridors of American arenas.
 The beauty part, Silverman said, is that the dome's vendor has signed off on the bring-your-own policy because, as Silverman explained, if fans eat their bento box of sushi or homemade potato salad, they may feel like buying an ice cream or souvenir later. (Patrons cannot lug goodies to their rented luxury boxes, however. That's a different deal.)
 Did this enlightenment have anything to do with the sudden explosion of the Rays this year? Silverman emphasized that the growth spurt came from the Rays' intent to ''procure and develop'' young talent, starting with the general manager, Andrew Friedman, 31, a former analyst with Bear Stearns, who put this roster together. 
 ''We beg, borrow and steal from other teams,'' Silverman said, meaning concepts. He praised baseball's revenue-sharing system that takes from the rich and gives to the poor, and said the Rays had avoided spending for a one-year fix.
 The new ownership also made a wise choice for manager in 2006 in hiring Joe Maddon, the youngest 54-year-old in captivity.
 ''They're more mature than I am,'' Maddon said of the wunderkind running the organization. 
 The Rays unloaded some players who were part of the problem, bringing in younger players who, as Casey Stengel used to fantasize with the original Mets, ''ain't failed yet.''
 Management still has some serious problems, like selling tickets, even for the World Series. It is still not proven that people in Tampa and Sarasota/Bradenton will overcome their hesitancy to cross long bridges to see a baseball game. And the Rays were unable to broker a real ballpark in downtown St. Pete before the economy went downhill. For the foreseeable future, Silverman is pursuing the family trade, to come to the dome.
 ''Before, you mostly had empty nesters,'' he said of the original Rays fans. ''Now you have 5- and-7-year-old fans. We have Rays fans making their homes here 365 days a year, with games on the television every night during the season.'' 
 The Rays get it. People can bring in food as long as it fits under a seat -- yes, even a small pizza, Silverman said. The Rays started with a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Now they have a pennant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); ETHICS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); REFUGEES (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



896 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Across the Country, Restaurants Feel the Pinch

BYLINE: By NICK FOX ; Will Carless contributed reporting from San Diego.

 BODY:
THE party's been over for months and months in South Florida and Southern California, but restaurants there are just now starting to feel the hangover.
In Miami, where the housing bubble bloated most freely and burst most quickly, the effects of the downturn have emerged slowly and unevenly.
''It's just the last couple of months,'' Michelle Bernstein, one of the best-known chefs in Miami Beach said last week as she stood near a few empty seats at the bar of her restaurant, Michy's. ''It's been scary.''
Even restaurants that say they're doing fine, in Miami and elsewhere in the country, can no longer afford to play hard to get. 
They've started taking reservations and adding value menus with phrases that evoke the Depression. And many restaurants say more customers are sharing appetizers, buying cheaper wine, ordering less wine and fewer courses, or just not showing up as much.
Where the economy has struggled longest, restaurants have been hit hardest.
In southern California, restaurateurs interviewed over the past week said business had dropped by as much as 20 percent from the same time last year.
Javier Gonzalez, who opened Costa Brava, a Spanish restaurant in suburban San Diego, seven years ago, said business had been growing by 20 percent a year, but is down 10 percent this year.
''I think what's been the most affected by the economy is the festive atmosphere in the restaurant,'' he said. ''Besides people ordering two glasses of wine instead of a bottle, there just isn't the same buzz.''
''Birthdays and other parties don't seem as exuberant,'' he added. ''In the long run, it's very scary to think what will happen after Christmas and the New Year.''
Bernard Guillas, executive chef at the Marine Room Restaurant in the wealthy San Diego enclave of La Jolla, said he's still doing a roaring trade, echoing what other high-end restaurants have reported. But he has also begun to offer a $40 prix fixe menu and the 67-year-old restaurant's first happy hour.
''You just need to be flexible and to realize that people are on more of a budget,'' he said. ''You have to keep up your attention to detail because a tired restaurant will drive customers away, especially now.''
That sort of flexibility has so far helped independent restaurants avoid the problems of full-service chains, some of which have gone bankrupt and most of which have seen sales fall. (Fast food restaurants like Burger King, and fast casual restaurants like Chipotle have done better.)
Bob Goldin, executive vice president of Technomic, an industry consulting group, said independents are better able to adapt.
''They can change their menus more quickly, add specials,'' he said. ''Can you imagine what it takes for a chain like Applebee's to introduce a new item?''
But John Owens, senior equity analyst specializing in restaurants for Morningstar, said that in many cities, big chains may eventually win out. They can afford to advertise more than small restaurants and negotiate better deals with suppliers and get better locations.
''Independents can be nimble and know their clientele,'' Mr. Owens said. ''Some will be able to compete and do well, but not all of them.
''We're going to see a lot of independent restaurants shut their doors.''
New York restaurants have avoided the hard times so far, but may be feeling the effects soon.
''New York has probably been the last bastion of stability,'' Mr. Goldin said, ''but I'm expecting it will change pretty rapidly.'' Following are reports on the restaurant scene around the country.
LOS ANGELES
In a city where nipping and tucking is usually done by plastic surgeons, restaurants are coping with a brutal downturn, suffering the effects of both a recession in the regional economy and a strike by screenwriters that brought movie and television production to a halt.
Restaurants that formerly banned customers from modifying menu items are playing a bit nicer and creating specials: the ''Hard Times Happy Hour'' just arrived at Lola's in West Hollywood.
''Everyone is trying much harder to make sure the customers they do have are happy,'' said Wes Idol, an owner of Pacific Dining Car, an 87-year-old restaurant known for its dry-aged steaks. ''But there's no doubt about it, we don't really see daylight right now.''
In Southern California, that's a powerful statement, but perhaps not an exaggeration. Almost every restaurateur questioned reported having about 10 percent fewer customers in the last few months.
Amy Knoll Fraser, an owner of the upscale Grace and the more casual BLD, both popular with the Hollywood crowd, said she has scrambled to change. ''California has been in an economic crisis for some time and it has us doing all we can to keep our heads above water and not panic,'' she said.
Grace, with its menu of wild boar tenderloin and herb-crusted tofu, is more insulated, she said, because the restaurant features a well-known chef (her husband, Neal Fraser), and has a large events and catering arm. But BLD needed emergency action. Among other changes, the two-year-old restaurant started taking reservations for the first time to better manage labor costs and edited its menu so diners would order main courses, not just small plates. The changes have limited the decline in sales to about 10 percent, Ms. Knoll Fraser said.
The most expensive restaurants, insulated until recently, are also running into the economy's buzz saw. At Providence, where the per-person dining average is about $150, business over the last month has dropped by nearly 20 percent, according to Donato Poto, an owner. The restaurant has started to cut back on employees' hours.
''If special-occasion restaurants are now feeling the weakness,'' Mr. Poto said, ''it's very worrisome.''
MIAMI
Restaurateurs here say that in the past few weeks, conversations have turned from beaches to budgets.
Ms. Bernstein, 38, the chef and a partner at Michy's, said her business is down about 20 percent from the same time last year.
Diners, she said, now buy one bottle of wine instead of two, and often order fewer items from her menu, which includes full and half portions. Rising prices have added to the squeeze.
''Flour is up 85 to 100 percent,'' she said. ''We can't raise our prices because we can't lose you.''
On Lincoln Road, the main restaurant row of South Beach, owners and managers described wild swings from night to night.
''Some days we're off by $100,'' said Vinny Cartiglia, a manager at Balans, where the most popular item is the sea bass ($22.95). ''Some days it's by $2,000 or $3,000.''
Restaurants with predictable food at decent prices seem to be doing better. Bars with football fare (burgers, wings, quesadillas) report that business has stayed roughly even since last year, as do the South American cafeterias that dot most Miami neighborhoods.
Some restaurants with more sophisticated offerings have tried to adjust.
Icebox Cafe in Miami Beach, which offers New American fare with a focus on seafood, wine and layer cakes, now offers a ''recession cruncher'' menu that includes a stuffed red pepper with a beef and rice filling for $12. The owners have also had some success with new, affordable family take-out: a loaf pan of meatloaf, with nine servings, goes for $18.
But perhaps no one understands the city's stomachs -- and wallets -- better than Myles Chefetz. He owns four restaurants here.
In an interview at the sleek steakhouse Prime One Twelve, he rattled off his sales numbers. The Big Pink diner was flat. Nemo, an American bistro that has been open for 14 years: down 10 percent. Shoji Sushi: down 13 percent.
And Prime One Twelve, where the average check is $105? Up 6 percent over last year.
To explain why, Mr. Chefetz walked into the restaurant's softly lighted, crowded dining room. He pointed to a powerful developer who could still afford expensive wine. Mr. Chefetz walked outside. A $200,000 Bentley was parked near the curb. He said he planned to open a high-end Italian restaurant across the street later this year.
''The people here with a lot of money,'' he said. ''They're still going out.''
CHICAGO
The economy here has not taken as hard a hit as that of Miami, but as with many places, the convention and tourist trade are off.
Also, restaurant owners and chefs said that diners are choosing less expensive items on menus and wine lists.
And they are asking for separate checks more often, no matter how large the party, said Emmanuel Nony, who opened Sepia, in the West Loop, one of the city's premier dining zones, 15 months ago.
''It's never been like that,'' he said.
Some say business goes up or down depending on how Wall Street is doing.
''I've never seen the restaurant business so concerned about the stock market,'' said Arthur Greenan, general manager of One SixtyBlue, a contemporary French restaurant where dinner and drinks come to about $85 per person. ''We follow it as much as food prices.''
Mr. Greenan said many diners are skipping desserts, and fewer people come in for a light dinner at the bar. Overall, sales are off by 10 to 15 percent.
But One SixtyBlue is counting on a new chef and some tweaks to its pricing to end the year on a better note.
''The new menu is reflective of where the economy is going and sensitive to people's spending needs,'' Mr. Greenan said. ''Chicago, like New York, is looking for what's new and exciting. For us, this will be significant. We want people to think of us as more affordable on a regular basis.''
Terry Alexander, who owns several upscale and casual restaurants and lounges around Chicago, found comfort in the fact that people are still dining out, no matter what they order.
''I'd say before, our wines at our trattorias would be anywhere between $45 and $50,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''Now it's slipped to $38 to $45. We still see people coming out and our total number of guests isn't going down, but the check average is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHEAP BUT CHIC: In Miami Beach, Icebox Cafe offers meatloaf as family take-out.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D1)
ADJUSTING: Michelle Bernstein, above, at Michy's in Miami Beach, says diners are ordering less. Right, Kari Ulrich, a manager at BLD in Los Angeles, has started taking reservations.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); FAST CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (73%); MENU PRICES (73%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



897 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Courting Chaos in Massachusetts

 BODY:
Next month, voters in Massachusetts will face a tempting ballot question: whether to eliminate the state's income tax. This is a reckless proposal that would hurt all taxpayers. Voters should reject the idea. 
 Massachusetts's residents currently pay a flat 5.3 percent levy on their income that provides the state with about 40 percent of its nearly $32 billion budget. Under the ballot proposal, the tax rate would be reduced in two stages. It would be cut in half on Jan. 1, 2009, and eliminated the following year. To say that this would create budget problems is an understatement. 
 The state's Constitution, federal law and other obligations prohibit cuts in $12.5 billion in state spending -- including aid to public schools, interest on the state's debt and part of Medicaid. This means to make ends meet, the remaining $19.5 billion in annual spending would have to be slashed by 70 percent. 
 There's no way that Massachusetts can cut that deeply, especially on short notice and especially now, as the economic downturn calls for more, not less, state spending. To keep spending at current levels, after eliminating the income tax, would require big increases in property and sales taxes, which, in turn, would hurt the poor and middle class. 
 A similar ballot question was offered six years ago and nearly passed. To make sure that the latest proposal goes nowhere, Massachusetts officials need to educate voters quickly as to just how wrong its proponents -- chiefly the Center for Small Government, an anti-tax organization -- really are. The organization claims, falsely, that the state budget is $47 billion, significantly higher than it is. That exaggeration allows its members to claim that eliminating the income tax is, proportionately, not so big a deal after all. 
 Legislating through popular ballot initiatives has been shown to be a blunt instrument in many states, most famously California. It is still suffering the consequences of Proposition 13, which gutted property taxes. Many Massachusetts voters have said they want to approve the proposal to send a message that they are dissatisfied with the Legislature. Surely they could find a less destructive way to communicate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



898 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: In a Globalized World, Winners and Losers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Great Iceland Meltdown'' (column, Oct. 19):
 Writing about the current financial debacle, Thomas L. Friedman holds that in a globalizing world, ''we are all partners now.'' He hopes that ''globalization will saveth.'' 
 More than 20 years ago, a global commission headed by Willy Brandt, the former chancellor of West Germany, called for a partnership in international development. What have been the results? 
 At this month's civil society forum (in which I participated), held just before the World Bank and International Monetary Fund annual meetings, representatives of grass-roots movements complained that the United States and other major powers still doggedly refuse to negotiate their lifestyles. 
 The market-driven form of globalization cannot ''saveth'' in the absence of democratic accountability and without restructuring the debt sustainability framework for developing countries.
 James H. Mittelman Bethesda, Md., Oct. 19, 2008
 The writer, a professor of international affairs at American University, is the author of books about globalization.
 To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman writes an informative column about the variety of municipalities, groups and agencies, including police forces in Britain, that deposited money in Iceland banks because of high interest rates and now cannot get the money back because these banks are no longer accepting requests for repayment. 
 But does Mr. Friedman conclude with some reflection on the motives that fueled the deposits in Iceland? 
 No, he notes that globalization giveth, globalization taketh away and globalization will save us.
 He says we are all in this together. But those whose treasury is spilling over with dollars and those whose treasury is filled with I.O.U.'s are on different sides of a seesaw. 
 Debtors are going to continue to lose ownership of domestic assets -- such as corporations that create domestic wealth -- to those nations that own American dollars.
 Globalization, as conducted according to the theory of free trade, has enriched other countries at the expense of the United States.
 W. Raymond Mills Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (93%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POLICE FORCES (51%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); ICELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



899 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: McClatchy Posts A Small Profit As Revenue Falls

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The McClatchy Company, the newspaper publisher, said on Tuesday that its third-quarter profit beat Wall Street expectations, but its advertising revenue fell faster in September than earlier in the year. 
 Net income was $4.2 million, or 5 cents a share, compared with a loss of $1.3 billion, or $16.42 a share, in the same period a year earlier, when it took an accounting charge to reflect the poor conditions in the newspaper business.
 In the latest quarter, net income excluding one-time charges was $10.4 million, or 13 cents a share, topping the 10 cents expected by analysts. 
 Revenue in the period, which ended Sept. 28, fell 16 percent, to $451.6 million, from $540.3 million.
 Combined revenue for print and online ads dropped 19.9 percent in September compared with a year ago, worse than the 19.5 percent reduction in June, which had been the year's steepest drop. 
 Gary B. Pruitt, McClatchy's chief executive, said October sales so far ''are tracking similarly to September.''
 Although Mr. Pruitt said the ad market ''may yet get worse before it gets better,'' he said the recent steep reductions appeared to be temporary and related to the economy, rather than a permanent erosion because of the Internet.
 For the entire third quarter, advertising revenue fell 19 percent. A gain of 9 percent in online advertising revenue could not offset a nearly 22 percent drop in print ads because Internet ads made up only 12 percent of overall advertising revenue.
 Circulation revenue dropped 4.9 percent.
 Stock in McClatchy, which is based in Sacramento, Calif., fell 21 cents, or 6 percent, to $3.19 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (92%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (97%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



900 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Fed Moves To Shore Up More Funds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For decades, Americans have considered money-market mutual funds as safe as bank accounts. On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve pledged $540 billion to make sure they really are. 
 In another bold gambit to restore confidence in the financial system, the Fed announced that it would provide a backstop for the short-term debt that many money-market funds hold. The central bank will buy certificates of deposit and certain types of commercial paper from the funds, in hopes of restoring the free flow of credit and easing worries about the investments. It is the third program of its kind that the Fed has announced this month. 
 ''As go these assets, so go money-market funds and so goes the economy,'' said Peter G. Crane, president of Crane Data, which tracks money-market funds. 
 ''This is putting a safety net and a parachute around money-market funds.'' 
 Money-market funds aim for a minimum dollar-for-dollar return to their investors. 
 But after Lehman Brothers collapsed last month, a prominent money fund run by the Reserve Fund fell below $1 a share -- a rare occurrence that shattered confidence in the usually serene world of money funds, which hold about $3.45 trillion in assets, according to iMoneyNet, a research firm. The subsequent flood of redemption requests eventually reached about $500 billion, according to the Fed.
 Although those stresses began to ease after the federal government moved to guarantee money-market assets, many investors remained fearful that another ill-timed collapse could cause a more serious run on the funds. 
 Worried about a new round of withdrawals, many money-market investors moved their funds out of the market for commercial paper, or short-term corporate i.o.u.'s, and into safer Treasury bills and cash equivalents that matured overnight. ''Liquidity to them today means having something that matures the next day for cash,'' said a person close to the Fed's new program who did not have authorization to discuss it publicly. 
 That left banks and businesses that depend on commercial paper in a jam, and the Fed scrambling to find a solution. 
 The answer came from an industry group led by JPMorgan Chase, according to individuals close to the situation who also were not authorized to discuss it publicly. The bank, along with a group of several major money-market investors, approached the Fed earlier this month with a plan to set up privately run entities that could start purchasing short-term debt from the funds. 
 With the Fed providing the financing, the assurance of a powerful buyer could coax money-market investors back into the commercial paper market, the reasoning went. In turn, the fund would provide an easy source of liquidity in the case of withdrawals.
 Round-the-clock meetings then began in New York and Washington, with the participants communicating by conference call. A final flurry last weekend culminated in an agreement on Tuesday morning, followed quickly by a public announcement before trading opened in New York. 
 The new program ''should improve the liquidity position of money-market investors, thus increasing their ability to meet any further redemption requests and their willingness to invest in money-market instruments,'' the Fed said in a statement. ''Improved money-market conditions will enhance the ability of banks and other financial intermediaries to accommodate the credit needs of businesses and households.''
 The actual purchasing of the short-term notes will be accomplished by a group of five funds administered by JPMorgan Chase. Under the terms of the program, each fund will purchase short-term debt from a group of 10 financial institutions, for a total of 50 providers, none of which were identified. Each institution will provide no more than 15 percent of the total debt assets of each fund.
 The central bank had already said it would provide direct financing to businesses by buying three-month commercial paper, and a separate program provides loans to banks and other financial institutions that buy asset-backed commercial paper from money-market mutual funds. 
 The Fed, which did not set a date for the program to start, said that it might be expanded beyond money-market mutual funds. 
 ''This is the first thawing that I really see in terms of helping the commercial paper market unravel itself,'' Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, said in a conference call on Tuesday morning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



901 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Amid Fiscal Gloom, M.T.A. Budget Watchers Expect the Bad and Await the Worst

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
When Gov. David A. Paterson created a commission last spring to recommend a solution to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's financial troubles, the panel's head, Richard Ravitch, a respected former chairman of the authority, quickly took on white knight status, with officials and politicians hoping he would ride in before the year was out to save the authority from disaster.
 Questions in recent months about the authority's economic future have repeatedly drawn the same response: Wait for the Ravitch commission. 
 But the stock market's troubles and the global banking crisis have accelerated the authority's financial slide to the point that officials are now working to carve deeper cuts in their budget plans for 2009. 
 And it appears likely that there will be insufficient time for the State Legislature to act on the Ravitch commission's proposals, meaning the authority will be forced to adopt an austerity budget with both service cuts and fare increases by late December, an official said. 
 Further, because of sharply falling revenues, an even larger increase in fares and tolls might have to be considered than in the authority's earlier budget plan, which called for an 8 percent rise in revenues from those sources, the official added.
 All that sets the stage for a winter of wrangling among the governor, the Legislature, the mayor and authority officials, who will be under intense pressure to rescue the region's mass transportation system.
 ''We clearly are going to be laying out some very painful stuff,'' Elliot G. Sander, the executive director of the transportation authority, said in an interview last week, referring to the budget discussions that will unfold over the next two months. ''We are going to have to balance the issue of fare increases and service cuts and also see how we can cut our budget further. Those are the three pieces to the puzzle and we're just in the process of dealing with those trade-offs.''
 He said that agency heads within the authority have been put on notice that they may be asked to propose budget cuts greater than the 4.5 percent reductions they had previously been asked to consider for next year. 
 And he said that if the authority's finances continue to deteriorate, officials may have to consider raising revenues from fares and tolls by more than the 8 percent proposed. 
 ''It's possible,'' Mr. Sander said. ''We hope to avoid it.'' 
 The Ravitch commission is required to make its recommendations on a financial fix for the authority by Dec. 5. It is expected that those recommendations may include additional taxes to support the authority and possibly other options, like a renewed push for a congestion pricing fee on cars driving in Manhattan or tolls on the East River bridges, all things that would need the approval of the Legislature and could generate a fair amount of debate. 
 The authority's board is scheduled to meet for the final time this year on Dec. 17, when it is expected to vote on a budget for next year. 
 That leaves less than two weeks for the Legislature to act between the Ravitch commission's expected release of its recommendations and the authority's budget vote. Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Governor Paterson, said there were currently no plans to call the Legislature back for a session in December, although she said that could change; a session to deal with the state's budget deficit is scheduled for November. 
 The authority is required by law to pass a balanced budget by the start of its fiscal year on Jan. 1, and Mr. Sander said that it could not be based on hopeful assumptions of aid that the Legislature may approve in the future. 
 He said that any service cuts or fare and toll increases in the new budget would most likely be scheduled to take effect in July, giving the Legislature and the governor time to find additional revenue for the authority that might allow it to scale back or avoid the most painful measures. 
 ''Our preliminary view of the timing is that the Legislature will have to act by late March,'' Mr. Sander said. ''If we go past that, then we're going to be forced to implement some pretty harsh stuff, fare increases and in all likelihood service reductions in addition to the cutbacks we're going to be doing internally.'' 
 The authority is working to revise its budget proposal for next year in light of new, more dire financial projections, and it will make that revised budget public next month. 
 The authority's previous 2009 budget proposal, released over the summer, called for the increase in fare and toll revenues, to start next July. It also called for the state and city to increase their contribution to the authority's operating budget by a total of $300 million next year.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said that the city is facing a budget crisis of its own and cannot give more money to the transportation authority. The state is also hobbled with deep deficits and will be hard-pressed to find more money for transit without raising it through new taxes. 
 The earlier budget is now outdated because, while it was based on projections of a contracting economy, those earlier forecasts look rosy compared with the events of recent weeks, in which chaos has spread across the globe. 
 And the numbers keep getting worse. Gary J. Dellaverson, the authority's chief financial officer, said he was working last week to revise the budget using the latest projections of declining regional employment when the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., released an even more dire forecast. Fewer jobs mean that fewer people pay fares on the authority's trains and buses and fewer drivers pay tolls at its bridges and tunnels, depressing revenues. 
 Mr. Ravitch said this week that he still expected the commission to make its report in early December, but he would not talk about what he expects from the recommendations. 
 There remains a slight possibility that the Legislature could be called back in December and enact a rescue plan for the authority that included new sources of revenue. But several officials in Albany predicted that discussion of Mr. Ravitch's proposals will extend well into next year, as lawmakers try to hash out a new state budget. They also said that if control of the State Senate passes to the Democrats from the Republicans in the November election, that would probably delay any action until January, when the new Senate is seated. 
 ''The goal of the commission is to recommend realistic strategies to fund M.T.A. capital projects and operating needs over the next 10 years, a period when the authority will be under unprecedented financial pressure,'' Ms. Duggan said in a written statement. ''While the Ravitch commission's recommendations are not due until December, the governor is well aware of the timing of the M.T.A. budget cycle.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



902 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Life Preserver For Owners Under Water

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In the government's ever-morphing efforts to save the financial system, the moment when the nation's homeowners get rescued seems, finally, to be getting near.
 John McCain has called for the Treasury Department to spend $300 billion buying up mortgages, and Barack Obama now favors a version of an idea he opposed during the primaries: a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures. Sheila Bair, the head of the agency that guarantees bank deposits, said last week that it was time for the government to shift its focus away from banks and do more to prevent foreclosures. 
 The idea of helping Main Street has an undeniable appeal. Housing is at the root of the financial crisis, and preventing foreclosures could bring a double-barreled benefit. It would allow families to remain in their homes and could also help keep the housing market from spiraling out of control. The more foreclosed homes that are dumped on the market, the more home prices will fall. 
 But before any of the various rescue plans reaches the point of inevitability -- and these days, ideas can go from unlikely to inevitable in about 48 hours -- I think it's important to stop for a moment and consider how complicated any such plan would be. Every one of them, in fact, faces an inherent conflict: coming up with a large-scale homeowner bailout without also helping millions of people who don't need help is almost impossible.
 That's a big reason that the various efforts to stem foreclosures so far, both from the Bush administration and Congressional Democrats, have been so modest. You just can't solve the foreclosure problem without causing a lot of collateral damage -- in the form of lavishing money on homeowners who can stay in their homes without assistance.
 And it's not at all clear why such people should be at the front of the line for government help. Why are they more deserving than, say, the growing number of unemployed, many of whom rent their homes? 
 Given all the other imperfect emergency measures that the federal government has taken in recent weeks, it can certainly do more to stem foreclosures than it has. The Treasury Department's $700 billion bailout fund, as it's now structured, may spend almost nothing on troubled mortgages. ''It's a question of weights,'' Alan Blinder, a former Federal Reserve vice chairman who has been advocating more homeowner help for months, told me, ''and I'm really worried that zero is going to be the weight for mortgages.'' 
 Zero, or anything close to it, may well be wrong. But the right answer isn't quite as obvious as it initially sounds. 
 There are two separate groups of people who are at risk of foreclosure, and they often get muddled in any discussion of the housing crisis. 
 The first group is made up of people who, for whatever reason, will not be able to make their monthly payments. Some took out mortgages with initial monthly payments that they couldn't afford. Others took out adjustable-rate mortgages whose monthly payments have ballooned to an unaffordable level. Still others have lost their jobs.
 At the start of this month, almost 1.5 million homeowners -- out of about 75 million nationwide -- were in this category. They were at least two months behind on their mortgage payments. Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody'sEconomy.com, estimates that another five million or so will fall into the category over the life of their mortgage, as the economy worsens and more adjustable-rate loans reset. 
 The second group is quite different. It is made up of people who are at risk of foreclosure not because they won't be able to keep up with their monthly payments -- but because they may decide they don't want to continue making them. These are the homeowners who are ''under water,'' which is to say their houses have lost so much value that they're now worth less than the underlying mortgage.
 Homeowners with an underwater mortgage face a choice. Many will stay put and keep making their monthly payments, because they see their house primarily as a home, rather than an investment. Maybe they love their neighborhood or their children's school. Maybe they just don't like the idea of reneging on a deal, as Brett Barry, a real estate agent near Phoenix, put it.
 Others, though, are going to look at their home purely in economic terms and see an investment that may never pay off. Some of them will choose to walk away.
 What matters, for the purposes of a bailout, is that the number of underwater homeowners is much larger than the number of people who will be unable to make their mortgage payments. Assuming that home prices still have a ways to fall, something like 19 million homeowners may be under water by 2010 (only a few million of whom will be struggling to make their payments).
 Now, who should be rescued?
 Let's start by acknowledging that morality cannot be the main criteria, unfortunately.
 The government has already passed the point of drawing fine moral distinctions and is now in the business of stabilizing the economy by whatever means necessary. Someone might argue, then, for rescuing everyone who might end up in foreclosure, regardless of the reason.
 The problem with this approach -- and it's the heart of the problem with any big-time homeowner rescue -- is probably obvious. As soon as the government announces that it will help everyone at risk of foreclosure, a lot of people are suddenly going to decide they're at risk of foreclosure.
 Homeowners who are under water will have an incentive to think of their homes in cold economic terms and threaten to walk away, while those who can just barely afford their monthly payments will have reason to slide into delinquency. Multiply 19 million mortgages by a couple of hundred thousand dollars, and the government could be left with $4 trillion in obligations.
 The other day, I spoke with Sandi Lucia, a saleswoman in Northern California who had lost her job, has had to take a new one at lower pay and was now struggling to meet her monthly payments. Ms. Lucia seems committed to doing everything she can to keep paying her bills. But she also put her finger on the problem. ''I want to keep paying my mortgage,'' she said. ''But if everyone is getting bailed out, what's the point?''
 In recent weeks, several intriguing ideas for helping homeowners have begun making the rounds. Mr. Blinder thinks the government should spend about half of the $700 billion bailout fund to buy and then refinance the mortgages of people who, based on their debt and income, appear to have little chance of making their payments. My colleague Joe Nocera has written about a plan that would allow homeowners to forfeit their deeds and rent their homes back from the bank. Ideas like these can be part of the solution.
 But this financial crisis isn't going to be solved by a magic bullet. It's going to require a smorgasbord of programs -- some aimed at homeowners in trouble, some aimed at the credit markets, some aimed at the job market -- as well as a whole lot of time and patience.
 The only way to stop the coming rise in foreclosures, at this point, would be a bailout of enormous proportions. And if we're unlucky enough to get to the point when a $4 trillion program seems necessary to resolve the crisis, there would be a lot of ways to spend the money beyond devoting it all to underwater homeowners. They aren't the only ones, after all, who live on Main Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: If prices continue to plummet, the homes of about 19 million owners will be worth less than their underlying mortgages by 2010.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); HOME PRICES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (72%); SHEILA BAIR (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



903 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Earnings at 3M Improve by 3.2%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The 3M Company reported a 3.2 percent increase in quarterly earnings, sending shares higher as the results contrasted with generally negative earnings sentiment in the markets Tuesday. 
 3M's broad lineup of businesses -- from high-tech industrial products like chemicals used in aircraft maintenance to consumer goods like Post-it notes -- makes it a bellwether of the economy. With domestic demand slowing, 3M has been relying on foreign markets for growth.
 3M, based in St. Paul, posted third-quarter net income of $991 million, or $1.41 a share, compared with $960 million, or $1.32 a share, in the period a year earlier.
 Excluding special items, 3M reported earnings of $1.42 a share, which topped analysts' estimates of $1.38 a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Revenue rose 6.2 percent, to $6.56 billion, from $6.18 billion a year earlier, short of analysts' estimates of $6.67 billion. 
 3M lowered its outlook slightly, forecasting 2008 earnings of $5.40 to $5.48 a share, an 8 to 10 percent increase, instead of the minimum 10 percent increase it had previously predicted. Analysts expect 2008 earnings of $5.45 a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 The company is cutting costs and eliminating more than 1,000 jobs in the United States, Europe and Asia.
 Shares of 3M closed at $60.04, up $2.53, or 4.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (97%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (97%); MMM (NYSE) (97%); MMM (FRA) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (97%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (97%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



904 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: McCain Fights to Keep Crucial Blue State in Play

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Moon Township, Pa., and Jeff Zeleny from Lake Worth, Fla. Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: MOON TOWNSHIP, Pa. 

 BODY:
People are scratching their heads: Why is Senator John McCain here?
 Senator Barack Obama has a double-digit lead in recent Pennsylvania polls. Senator John Kerry beat President Bush here in 2004. The previous three Democratic presidential candidates won, too. And this year there are 1.2 million more registered Democrats than Republicans in the state.
 But in these frantic last weeks of the 2008 campaign, Mr. McCain has lavished time and money on this now deep-blue state -- he made three stops here on Tuesday -- as if his political life depended on it. And, from his campaign's point of view, it does. 
 ''We need to win Pennsylvania on Nov. 4, and with your help -- with your help -- we're going to win!'' Mr. McCain shouted to the crowd in his first appearance of the day, at a manufacturing plant in Bensalem, north of Philadelphia, where he said that Mr. Obama would raise their taxes and was too untested to handle an international crisis. 
 Mr. McCain's strategists insisted that the state and its 21 electoral votes were within reach and crucial to what they acknowledge is an increasingly narrow path to victory. They say that their own polls show Mr. McCain only seven or eight percentage points behind Mr. Obama. (The state polls that show Mr. Obama with a double-digit lead, all conducted in recent weeks, include surveys by Marist, Quinnipiac, Rasmussen, SurveyUSA and The Allentown Morning Call.)
 Mr. McCain's strategists argue that their candidate has a dual appeal: to the pro-gun working-class voters in the western coal country, many of whom supported Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York in the Democratic primary, and to independents and moderates in the swing counties around Philadelphia.
 ''When we look at our numbers, we think we're competitive here,'' Mark Salter, Mr. McCain's closest adviser, told reporters in Harrisburg on Tuesday. He added, ''We would like to get as many Clinton supporters as we can.''
 Another reason for Mr. McCain's focus on Pennsylvania may be the shrinking electoral map, as Mr. Obama's dominance leaves Mr. McCain with fewer and fewer competitive states to campaign in, and the need to avoid another embarrassing concession like Michigan, which the campaign abandoned early this month.
 Conceding Pennsylvania two weeks before the election would be too much an admission of failure, said G. Terry Madonna, the director of the Center for Politics and Public Affairs at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, where Mr. McCain appeared before a raucous rally of 7,000 people with his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, in September.
 ''I think it psychologically devastates the entire national campaign if they decide they're going to pull up stakes and walk away,'' Mr. Madonna said.
 One of McCain's senior strategists, Charles Black, said that the campaign had fared better in Pennsylvania than in any other blue state in recent months, and that Mr. McCain was a different candidate than President Bush, who waged a long and expensive battle here four years ago. ''Bush came close here, but he did badly in the Philadelphia suburbs,'' Mr. Black said, arguing that Mr. McCain's old ''maverick'' label would have greater appeal in those suburbs, even though Mr. McCain has run a traditional Republican general election campaign.
 Philadelphia is one of the only major cities in the country where Mr. McCain's advertising campaign is anywhere near as voluminous as that of Mr. Obama's. But even there, he lags nonetheless. On Tuesday, Mr. McCain effectively reduced his advertising campaigns in five other states -- Colorado, Maine, Minnesota, New Hampshire and Wisconsin -- in what Democrats suspected was an effort to divert resources to a more robust advertising effort here (though the savings from those moves had yet to show up in the state as of Tuesday night). 
 Mr. McCain's advisers have contended that they do not expect white voters to reject Mr. Obama, of Illinois, simply because he is black. When Mike DuHaime, the campaign's political director, was asked in a conference call with reporters on Tuesday what effect he thought race would play in Pennsylvania, he replied, ''I hope there is none.'' 
 Mr. DuHaime rejected comments made last week by a Pennsylvania Democrat, Representative John P. Murtha, who told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, speaking of his home base, that ''there is no question that Western Pennsylvania is a racist area.''
 Mr. McCain referenced Mr. Murtha's comments in his third stop of the day, at Robert Morris University here, when he said, ''I think you may have noticed that Senator Obama's supporters have been saying some pretty nasty things about Western Pennsylvania lately.'' As the crowd booed, Mr. McCain became tangled up in the rest of his remarks. ''And you know, I couldn't agree with them more,'' he said, to silence, and then wandered around in a verbal thicket before finally managing to say, ''I could not disagree with those critics more; this is a great part of America.''
 Mr. Obama, who was in Florida on Tuesday, had no immediate plans to return to Pennsylvania in coming days, perhaps the most telling sign that his strategists were comfortable with his position there. But Democratic officials in the state said they had been urging the Obama campaign to send the senator back there at least once more before Election Day to shore up support.
 An aggressive ground game for Mr. Obama, meanwhile, is under way in all corners of Pennsylvania, where hundreds of campaign workers and tens of thousands of volunteers were manning 80 field offices in what Democrats described as the largest organizational effort in state history.
 Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said the voter registration edge was about twice as much as the party enjoyed in the 2004 presidential race. But even with that edge, he said, history suggested that the state would remain close until the final moment. Lyndon B. Johnson was the only Democratic presidential candidate in 50 years to capture more than 51 percent of the vote.
 ''I'm always cautious about Pennsylvania, but there seems to be something different about this whole effort,'' Mr. Casey said in an interview on Tuesday. ''The dynamic has changed dramatically, not just around the country, but in particular in Pennsylvania, because of the confluence of the economic situation.''
 After spending last weekend reaching out to undecided voters on a Casey family bus tour across the state, Mr. Casey said the skepticism among older voters toward Mr. Obama had started to fall away after they saw the two candidates side by side at the debates. 
 ''There were some people, a certain percentage of undecided voters, who had not seen them both on the same stage,'' Mr. Casey said. ''It definitely moved some older voters into his column.''
 Still, Democratic officials in the state said they did not believe that Pennsylvania was absolutely locked up for Mr. Obama. Party leaders are not relying on polling, in case voters are not telling pollsters the truth, but rather on neighbor-to-neighbor efforts to identify supporters. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain and his wife, Cindy, in Pennsylvania on Tuesday. Senator Barack Obama is leading in statewide polls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1) CHART: PURSUING PENNSYLVANIA: Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin continue to campaign in Pennsylvania despite trailing in some state polls. (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



905 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Protests and Hecklers Have Mortgage Bankers Longing for Good Old Days

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
It was just another business-as-usual day at the annual convention of the nation's mortgage bankers: a few panels, a few presentations and an attempted abduction of Karl Rove.
 Mr. Rove, the Republican strategist and former adviser to President Bush, was accosted onstage during a convention panel here on Tuesday morning by a protester who tried to handcuff and arrest him ''for treason.'' Mr. Rove tried to elbow her away before she was taken offstage. 
 No one was injured and no arrests were made, but the stage-storming was just the latest outburst at an event that usually packs all the excitement of a mortgage calculator. On Monday, another panel was interrupted by protesters demanding a moratorium on foreclosures, and hecklers screamed at attendees through bullhorns outside. 
 The convention was booked for San Francisco well before the national mortgage meltdown, the $700 billion bailout and all the recriminations between. But the rancor of the protests and the general malaise in the mortgage business has left more than a few conventioneers, like Gregory B. Lucas, a mortgage broker from Pomona, Calif., fondly remembering the good old days of the industry's gatherings. 
 ''We had streakers during the 1990s, but that was a joyful, happy thing,'' said Mr. Lucas, who had been coming to such events for 20 years and recalled how a group of inebriated and naked bankers had once entertained the crowd. ''But now everyone is blaming us for everything.''
 Cheryl Crispen, a spokeswoman for the Mortgage Bankers Association, the convention's organizer, said she had no regrets about coming to San Francisco, a liberal city where anger about the Bush administration's financial policies is palpable. 
 ''It was unfortunate that they chose this venue to protest whatever they chose to protest,'' Ms. Crispen said. ''We believe in free speech, but we believe there is a right time and place for it.'' 
 With about 2,500 attendees, the convention's attendance was down by about 20 percent this year, Ms. Crispen said, something that ''mirrors what is going on the industry.'' That new reality could also be reflected in some of the forums being offered, with names like ''Eliminating Foreclosure'' and ''High Speed Legislation: How Congress Is Responding to the Mortgage Industry.'' 
 Not that there weren't optimists in the crowd. Lalit Maliwal, a salesman from Belle Mead, N.J., said the current economic travails were actually good for his line of work: outsourcing.
 ''Everyone is hurting,'' Mr. Maliwal said. ''But I think it seems a little harder than it is.'' 
 Nor were all the conventioneers cutting corners. The comedian Jay Leno and a group of Beatles impersonators were scheduled to perform for the association on Tuesday night -- for $1,990 a table. 
 Mr. Rove was already on a flight to Washington on Tuesday afternoon, according to his office, and could not be reached for comment. But Mr. Lucas, for one, said the networking at the event's official watering hole at the nearby Marriott hotel was nowhere near as active as the protesting outside the convention hall. 
 ''I've cut a lot of deals in those bars,'' Mr. Lucas said, chomping on a cigar. ''And there wasn't anybody there last night.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A protester approached Karl Rove during a panel discussion on Tuesday at a mortgage bankers convention in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); ARRESTS (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BAILOUTS (68%); LIBERALISM (63%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (62%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



906 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Argentina In Move To Control Pensions

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Vinod Sreeharsha contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.

DATELINE: BRASILIA 

 BODY:
Argentina's government said Tuesday that it would seek to nationalize nearly $30 billion in private pension funds to protect retirees from falling stock and bond prices as the global financial crisis continues.
 The measure, confirmed in a speech in Buenos Aires late Tuesday by Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Argentina's president, was criticized by political opponents and analysts as a move to shore up government coffers to try to head off a fiscal crisis in 2009, when Argentina might be struggling to make billions of dollars in debt payments.
 The announcement sent the Buenos Aires stock market, the Merval, down nearly 11 percent, and led analysts to question whether the nationalization, which is subject to approval by the Argentine legislature, puts property rights at risk and threatens the rule of law in the country. 
 It may be the first time a Latin American government has expropriated cash. The move is expected to give the government breathing room as falling commodity prices drive down tax revenue from agriculture by as much as $6 billion next year, according to some estimates. Commodity prices have fallen as fears of a global slowdown have grown. 
 Argentina's precarious fiscal situation predated the global financial crisis. 
 Argentina is one of the world's top five exporters of beef, soy, corn and wheat, and falling prices for those commodities have diminished the government's main sources of revenue. The country spent much of its windfall during this decade's commodity boom paying off debts and subsidizing fuel and other consumer items to stimulate rapid growth. 
 Now it may face a struggle to pay some $22.4 billion in debt obligations and other payments due next year, Daniel Kerner, an analyst with Eurasia Group, a risk consulting firm, said.
 So far, other governments in South America, including Brazil's and Chile's, have said they will tap Central Bank reserves or stabilization funds amassed during the commodity boom to help important export industries withstand the global credit crisis.
 Mrs. Kirchner characterized Argentina's move as government protectionism in line with bank bailouts in Europe and the United States. ''We are making this decision in an international context in which the leading countries in and out of the G-8 are protecting their banks, while we are protecting our retirees and workers,'' she said in a televised speech.
 She dismissed criticism that the move was simply a grab for cash, noting that the private pension plan put in place 14 years ago had produced a low rate of return for holders this year.
 But analysts said the move could hurt Argentina. ''This will be a major blow to the country's isolated capital markets, and will probably dampen consumer and investor confidence further,'' Mr. Kerner said.
 The opposition leader Elisa Carrio, who ran against Mrs. Kirchner for president, told Radio Mitre on Tuesday that the government was trying to ''loot the funds of retirees.''
 According to the plan, all the assets in individual accounts would be transferred to the state's ''pay as you go'' system, and affiliation to the state system would be mandatory, effectively putting an end to the current dual system.
 Regional elections are scheduled for October 2009. By taking over the pension funds the government can continue to spend on programs that help it retain political support, which Mrs. Kirchner lacks after a debilitating four-month strike by farmers over export taxes that ultimately ended in defeat for the government.
 If the move is approved, her government may have secured an important electoral asset, which could help guarantee Mrs. Kirchner's political survival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Buenos Aires office of the Met AFJP pension administrator, which is run by the American insurer MetLife.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCOS BRINDICCI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (72%); BEEF (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%) ARGENTINA (99%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



907 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Regional Banks Struggled Through Third Quarter

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
In the Depression year of 1933, Cleveland suffered a citywide run on the banks. When the panic subsided, National City Bank was the first to reopen.
 But today that Ohio bank, now known as National City Corporation, has come to symbolize the crisis that is hobbling regional lenders across the nation. Many of these midsize institutions face uncertain futures, despite the government's bank rescue plan.
 Five regional banks, National City among them, reported another round of painful results on Tuesday, and analysts say their business will worsen as the economy deteriorates. Several of these banks said they hoped to sell stock to the government to shore up their finances, as nine big national banks have done.
 But with losses mounting, it is unclear how many small and midsize lenders the government will choose to save. In some cases, analysts said, the Treasury will probably play kingmaker, nudging weak banks into the arms of stronger rivals. In others, banks could drag on, reporting disappointing results for at least the next four quarters. 
 ''We began over a year ago to try to configure the company for a difficult period,'' Peter Raskind, National City's chief executive, said in an interview Tuesday. ''I don't think anybody thought it would be this difficult.''
 For National City and many of the other regional banks, things are quickly moving from bad to worse. Mortgages and home equity losses continue to rise as housing prices have yet to find a bottom. Losses on auto and credit card loans have surged. New problem areas, like loans made to small corporations and commercial real estate developers, are starting to come under pressure. 
 And that is with an unemployment rate that up until now has been unusually resilient. As the economy continues to slow and more jobs are lost, the banking industry's problems could grow even bleaker. 
 National City said it would cut 4,000 jobs as it reported a surge in losses to $729 million for the period, up from $19 million a year earlier. The bank had to increase the cushion it set aside for loan losses to $1.18 billion. Fifth Third, another Ohio-based bank, lost $56 million. KeyCorp of Cincinnati lost $36 million. Regions Financial of Alabama eked out a $79.5 million profit. Shares in the banks rose because their troubles were not as deep as expected, but other banks fell on concerns about their health.
 U.S. Bancorp of Minneapolis fell almost 3 percent, to $30.20, after reporting a drop in earnings tied to higher projected losses. Bank stocks generally are down about 42 percent in the last year. 
 Investors are staring through a looking glass of diminished expectations, industry experts say. ''You get to a point where it is not about the earnings,'' said Brian R. Sterling, the co-head of investment banking at Sandler O'Neill and Partners. ''It's all about the book value'' of assets and the strength of its balance sheet. 
 They may also be looking to the future. ''Historically, bank stocks have bottomed a full year before losses peaked,'' said Jason Goldberg, a banking analyst at Barclays Capital. That, he said, is what happened during the recessions that followed the savings and loan crisis and the bursting of the technology bubble. 
 The prospect of deeper losses at banks is setting the stage for a second round of consolidation in the industry, after the recent wave of blockbuster deals that occurred as the nation's biggest banks swallowed troubled competitors. One regional bank, Sovereign Bancorp, was bought this month by a big Spanish bank amid signs that its finances were deteriorating. Citigroup is on the prowl for a deal that could bolster its relatively small domestic retail banking operations. 
 While some regional banks had been reluctant to undertake or unable to complete such transactions, several regional lenders said Tuesday they would seek to take advantage of the government's program of capital infusions to snap up weaker rivals. 
 Regions Financial said it would seek to raise as much as $3.5 billion from the government; KeyCorp said it would seek $1.1 billion to $3.3 billion, and Zions Bancorporation of Utah said it would consider asking the government to take a stake of $500 million to $1.5 billion. 
 Executives at BB&T, PNC Financial and U.S. Bancorp also said in conference calls that they found the government's offer quite attractive. ''I am telegraphing that we're more active and more interested than we might have been before'' to pursue a deal, Richard Davis, U.S. Bancorp's chief executive, said in a conference call Tuesday. 
 Banks will have until Nov. 14 to apply for the Treasury program. Some are being encouraged by their regulators to apply. But others may be deemed too far gone to receive government funds. 
 Indeed, analysts said they expected the government might use the money as an inducement to spur healthier banks to do a deal, or withhold it to urge weaker institutions to consider selling. Mr. Sterling said he would expect ''deal dialogue to pick up'' as it becomes clear who is getting financing and who is not.
 But other lenders may have fewer options. National City said that while it was interested in selling troubled assets into the government's $700 billion bailout fund, it had not decided whether it would seek government capital.
 ''There are a number of implications of taking advantage of it or not taking advantage of it,'' Mr. Raskind said. ''That is what we are thinking through right now.'' 
 Mr. Raskind said the company was cutting costs and had stockpiled enough funds to weather the worsening economy. ''We pretty firmly believe we have more than adequate capital to see us through that,'' he added.
 Still, there are more signs of trouble in other areas. Beyond worsening mortgages and consumer loans, analysts say that there are signs that loans made to small and midsize businesses appear to be souring across the country. This had been the bread-and-butter of regional banks, which took advantage of local ties after being elbowed out of the credit card and mortgage business by national players. 
 First Horizon National of Tennessee, Capitol Bancorp of Michigan and Arizona and Sovereign Bancorp of Philadelphia had sharp increases in the percentage of bad loans in their commercial and industrial portfolio, according to an analysis by Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. ''It is definitely a sign the economy is weakening,'' said Paul Miller, one of its banking analysts. ''You have another loan category coming down the road.''
 And analysts are beginning to see stress in loans to commercial real estate developers, especially in mall properties that are dependent on the retail sector. ''There are lots of bank lines and loans out to developers and that type of commercial real estate,'' said Nancy A. Bush, a longtime banking analyst. ''We are beginning to see a few cracks in office space as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: National City, among regional banks feeling the strain of the credit squeeze, will lay off 4,000 employees as its losses surge.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON JOSEFCZYK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (51%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (95%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (95%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (92%); U S BANCORP (62%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (60%); KEYCORP (58%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (95%); USB (NYSE) (62%); KEY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



908 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: After a Year on the Road, Obama Is Changing His Tempo

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Miami.

DATELINE: ROANOKE, Va. 

 BODY:
Where's Miles Davis? Who kidnapped Elvis?
 Up there on the riser in the Virginia arena, there is this careful guy reading from a teleprompter and keeping his tone not exactly monotone but not exactly soaring, and he is repeating more or less the same lines that he read the night before and the same lines he will read the day after.
 Once, the artist formerly known as Barack Obama, the slim, smooth-faced fellow with the close-cropped hair and the trumpet of a voice would riff on 14 varieties of hope and propel crowds higher and higher until he sent them spinning out into the night ready to change the world. Teleprompters were for the earthbound. 
 Now this candidate, with noticeably more gray flecking his hair, is talking about ''the changes and reforms we need.'' He goes on about ''a new era of responsibility and accountability on Wall Street and in Washington.'' He hankers for ''common-sense regulations to prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again.''
 ''Bottom-up growth,'' he promises brightly.
 What happened to the ''fierce urgency of now''? 
 It is tempting, in contrasting the Obama of a year ago with the presidential candidate of today, to conclude that Miles Davis has turned himself into Barry Manilow. That is not quite the case; he still draws crowds -- 100,000 in St. Louis on Saturday -- that would warm a rocker's heart. And his words can still soar, as when he and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton formed a campaign duet Monday in Florida. But this Mr. Obama is a consciously, carefully, intentionally more grounded one, and a touch duller for the metamorphosis.
 The slow muting of Mr. Obama's rhetorical dial, particularly noticeable as world markets gyrate and unemployment spikes, speaks to a candidate who has run a rigorously disciplined campaign. His goal a year ago was to soar while rivals still cast their eyes down; now he must convince voters that he can walk just a step or two ahead of them, and so help navigate treacherous ground.
 Hope is about paying the mortgage. 
 ''He is intent on making a very pointed and precise case,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's chief strategist. ''We are offering a solid leader with a sober vision.''
 At his most effective, this 47-year-old Democrat forces everyone -- his Republican rival, his aides, the voters -- to adapt to his tempo. So Mr. McCain entered each debate frowning, scoffing and tossing pugnacious roundhouses; Mr. Obama, playing with a grin, slipped to this side and to that, reframing questions, fighting on his terms.
 The Obama of the campaign trail is at once more prosaic and perhaps more proficient. Early this year, when his appearances were more happening than rally, one could count on a constant: Someone would scream, ''I love you, Obama!'' 
 And Mr. Obama would, almost without looking up, answer quickly, ''I love you back.'' 
 Then the McCain campaign began running commercials portraying Mr. Obama as a separated-at-birth celebrity brother of Paris Hilton.
 Shouts of ''I love you'' went unrequited this past weekend.
 Mr. Obama is of two minds about the artifice of politics. Last spring he often resisted the impulse to pretend he was just folks; he held tight to his gerunds. And, slender fellow though he is, he refused to gorge on the artery-clogging sausage and sweets found on the campaign trail.
 But to listen in Roanoke last weekend was to hear him backstroking in the regional accent pool. ''We went to this din-ah,'' he told the crowd, sounding a bit like a fellow who wandered down from the Appalachian Mountains. ''Y'know, I lahk some sweet potato pie.''
 And a little later: ''I don't think it's right,'' said the Harvard-trained lawyer. ''In fact, it ain't right.'' 
 No indeedy.
 Mr. Obama rarely pushes down hard on the base pedal on race. History suffuses his campaign; there is no need to make explicit what is so evident. Black crowds, from Fayetteville, N.C., to North Philadelphia, recognize precisely the historical narrative playing out before their eyes.
 As Mr. Obama roams the whiter hinterlands of Missouri, Virginia, Ohio and North Carolina, he as often travels with a white companion -- particularly those popular among the white working class -- Governors Ted Strickland of Ohio and Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, and Senators Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Jim Webb of Virginia.
 He is just like you, they tell audiences. He grew up middle class. He is a father and a husband. Their talks can be quite frank. From time to time, though, words strain at the bounds of what the eye can see. So Mr. Webb, a red-haired, proudly Scots-Irish pol with a John Wayne cadence, introduced Mr. Obama in Roanoke and began: He's one of you. 
 Mr. Webb offered a complicated formula that involved putting to the side Mr. Obama's Kenyan father, then tracing the lineage of Mr. Obama's white mother, who was born in Kansas to parents whose grandparents came from Kentucky and whose ancestors somewhere in their wanderings from Ireland and Scotland presumably settled for a spell in southwestern Virginia.
 Mr. Webb finished with a broad smile. He has divined the backwoods white bonafides of an urbane, mixed-race Chicagoan. 
 ''They say he's not like you.'' He shook his head, sternly. ''Barack Obama is just like you.''
 The crowd puzzled for a second, then clapped at his effort.
 On Tuesday in Lakewood, Fla., Mr. Obama held a ''jobs summit'' with Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, and Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. The crowd tensed, pulsed, here he comes, that man who makes so many hearts leap.
 ''Yes, we can! Yes, we can!''
 No he can't, not today. The candidate wags his head and asked, politely, for silence. ''No cheerleading. We have some serious business to do.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A Reporter's Notebook article on Wednesday about Senator Barack Obama's change in tempo on the campaign trail misidentified the city in Florida where Mr. Obama focused on the issue of jobs on Tuesday. It was in Lake Worth, not Lakewood.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Obama supporters on Tuesday stood around a cardboard stand-in before the start of a meeting on jobs in Palm Beach, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DAVID AXELROD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



909 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Only Half a Bailout

 BODY:
A week into the big bailout, banks are beginning to charge each other less for loans and companies are finding it easier to borrow short term. The Dow has been up and down, but so far this week, it is back above 9,000. 
 So has the worst passed? Probably not. 
 The unfortunate reality is that as long as millions of Americans continue to default on their mortgages and housing prices continue to slide, banks will continue to suffer big losses. Unless something is done quickly to help American homeowners avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes, those losses could swamp the bailout effort by exceeding the sums being spent to rescue the banks. 
 Despite the danger posed by foreclosures -- to the bailout, homeowners, taxpayers and the economy -- the Bush administration and Congress are still depending on banks and other participants in the mortgage industry to voluntarily modify troubled loans, say, by giving borrowers more time to pay or by reducing interest rates. 
 The voluntary approach hasn't been enough to stanch foreclosures. As things now stand, some 3.2 million homeowners will likely lose their homes to foreclosure this year and next, and millions more will struggle to catch up on delinquencies. Vacancies and defaults will continue to push house prices down; they have already fallen by 20 percent nationwide and are now expected to fall by at least another 10 percent. There is no time to waste to reverse the spiral.
 Unfortunately, the bailout legislation does not require banks to modify loans in exchange for the infusion of taxpayer dollars. That means the administration and Congress will have to turn up the political pressure on financial institutions that avail themselves of the government's largess. The Treasury Department should also set up a team to modify any troubled mortgages it gains control of through the bailout. 
 Both John McCain and Barack Obama have recognized that this crisis won't be solved until a way is found to keep many more Americans in their homes. 
 Senator McCain's plan -- to buy troubled mortgages from banks at full value and replace them with mortgages at the house's lower market price -- may sound humane, but it is an unjustifiable waste of taxpayer money. It doesn't require the lender to accept any loss before the government buys up a bad loan. 
 Senator Obama has a better idea. Rather than relying solely on the banks to do what is right and needed, he supports legislation that would allow bankruptcy judges to modify mortgages for bankrupt borrowers. That makes far more sense. Most lenders would invariably prefer to modify loans rather than be taken to court. But the bankruptcy fix faces stiff political opposition, and even if passed, would help about 500,000 homeowners -- versus the millions now in distress. 
 Mr. Obama has also called for federal agencies to work more closely with the states on efforts to modify mortgages. Attorneys general in 11 states recently imposed the first mandatory loan modification program on Countrywide Financial as part of a legal settlement over what the states said was predatory lending. An estimated 400,000 borrowers will get $8.4 billion in direct loan relief, like reduced interest rates. More lawsuits and more settlements could lead to more modifications, and with them, a more stable financial system. 
 Still, it may get to the point, early in the next administration, when the president and Congress will have to require lenders to modify bad loans and take the losses. 
 Mandatory modifications, bankruptcy, lawsuits -- no one likes them, but they are tough tools for a tough problem. The bailout has dealt with only half of the problem: the credit freeze. Unless the government deals as aggressively with foreclosures, the system will likely face the abyss again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (63%); JUDGES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



910 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Crisis Has Premier Riding High

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
This month, as markets plummeted and investors panicked, Italy's billionaire prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, watched shares in some of his own companies nose-dive 40 percent. Yet he seemed buoyant as ever, reveling until dawn at a disco in Milan after returning from a meeting with European leaders on how to tackle the financial crisis. 
 ''If I sleep for three hours, I still have enough energy to make love for another three,'' the newspaper La Repubblica quoted him as telling the younger crowd. ''I hope that when you hit 70, you're in as good shape as I am.'' 
 Beyond the theatrics and locker-room humor for which Italy both loves and hates him, the remark reflected a reality: Mr. Berlusconi, 72, is riding high, his power and influence greater than ever. The reason: this man with an already unparalleled position at the center of the nation's economy and politics now stands to control billions of dollars in public money to bail out private companies should they need it, and they probably will. 
 This further expansion of Mr. Berlusconi's power, which some here attack as dangerous and others hail as necessary in difficult times, bears out a common saying here: there are two kinds of Italians, those who work for Berlusconi and those who are about to. 
 Mr. Berlusconi ''influences the economy, which needs the state now,'' said Stefano Folli, a political commentator. ''If it needs the state, it needs him.''
 This new economic power comes at a time when Mr. Berlusconi is enjoying more political power than he has ever had in 15 years in public office. 
 It also puts him, along with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, hailed for his bank bailout plan, among the world leaders whose political fortunes seemed to be getting a boost from the crisis. Losers appear to be President Bush, whose already low poll ratings have sunk further amid the financial turmoil, and Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, which has been buffeted by plunging oil prices and an international backlash over its war with Georgia in August. 
 In Parliament, Mr. Berlusconi's center-right coalition, the People of Liberty, was elected in April by a wide nine-point margin. It is stronger than ever, having shed some smaller rightist parties, and governs practically unopposed, because of the implosion of the left in the elections. Over the weekend, the main opposition group, the Democratic Party, split with an allied centrist party, Italy of Values, further splintering the ever-squabbling left and center.
 ''This is a phase in which he's without rivals,'' said Ferruccio de Bortoli, the editor in chief of the well-respected financial newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore. ''Whether it's good for the country, I have my doubts.''
 The Italian state has always been a major player in an economy in which personal connections are crucial. And in recent weeks, Italy, like most European countries, has been open to bailing out failing financial institutions. But when the head of government is also the most powerful businessman, and one of the wealthiest, in the private sector, it has the potential to take the spoils system to a new level.
 In many countries, the leader's popularity often rises and falls with the state of the economy. That does not appear to be the case in Italy.
 Since Sept. 1, the Milan stock market has dropped 22 percent and economic anxieties are rising along with interest rates on mortgages. But Mr. Berlusconi's approval ratings are high at 62 percent, according to a poll released last week and conducted by the center-left La Repubblica.
 His left-wing critics, including the Democratic Party leader, Walter Veltroni, have attributed his success to his sway on the public and private television airwaves. Mr. Berlusconi owns Mediaset, Italy's largest private broadcaster. A government media watchdog recently reported ''an imbalance'' on television public affairs programs in September, with far more time devoted to the government than to the opposition.
 Even though Mr. Berlusconi has said the Italian economy is not in a recession, a view many dispute, on Tuesday he called a meeting next week with banks and Confindustria, the industrialists' association, to make sure, as he said, ''that the financial crisis doesn't affect the real economy.''
 Over all, he seems to have reassured Italians that the state has their back. 
 Mr. Berlusconi has also tried to promote investment in his own way. 
 This month, he drew criticism for urging Italians to buy shares in Eni and Enel, Italy's largest gas companies. For a prime minister to favor certain stocks ''was an evident conflict of interest,'' said Emma Bonino, vice president of the Senate and a member of the Radical Party. 
 Yet Mr. Berlusconi's powerful finance minister, Giulio Tremonti, is well respected and even seen as predicting the current crisis in his book, ''Fear and Hope,'' which appeared this spring and warned of the downside of globalization. Last week, he said the government was prepared to bail out banks on a case-by-case basis. 
 But worry about the power of Mr. Berlusconi and his government is high enough that on Monday Mr. Tremonti sought to play down fears of more state intervention. He said the government would approach any bailouts reluctantly, saying they could be ''seriously harmful'' to the country's ''political health.'' 
 ''It may be necessary, but it is absolutely not an opportunity,'' he said. 
 Mr. Tremonti also has a strong hand with the parties in the center-right coalition and helped push through some budget measures over the summer, giving the government more flexibility in the current crisis. Budget negotiations usually paralyze Parliament all fall.
 But not everyone is convinced. 
 For all Mr. Tremonti's foresight, ''the budget was wrong because it presupposed growth,'' said Pier Luigi Bersani, the shadow finance minister for the Democrats. On Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund predicted two years of recession for Italy. Last week, Confindustria predicted that the Italian economy would shrink by 0.5 percent, instead of growing 0.4 percent.
 It is hard to gauge how much Mr. Berlusconi's empire has lost. His holding company, Fininvest, which is not publicly traded, announced Tuesday that its net profit had fallen 20 percent this year. Shares in Mediaset have fallen 40 percent since the first of the year, while Mondadori, a publishing house, is down nearly half. Shares in Mediolanum, an insurance company, were down about 40 percent.
 But in broad terms, Mr. Berlusconi has solidified his position in Italy's economy, the world's seventh largest. 
 His daughter Marina now sits on the board of Mediobanca, the storied Milan investment bank that for decades was a counterbalance to state financing and a bastion of old money to his new. 
 Mr. Berlusconi recently warned that Italian companies were open to hostile takeovers, and he hopes to pass a law making them more difficult. His critics fear such a law would reduce foreign investment, keeping power in the hands of a homegrown few. 
 ''Hostile to whom?'' the left-leaning economist Tito Boeri asked in a front-page article in La Repubblica on Friday. ''Hostile to our economy or to the big families that now run Italian capitalism?''
 And as the credit crisis deepens, Mr. Berlusconi is also moving closer to the country's two leading investment banks, Unicredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, whose leaders have not been close to the center-right coalition. 
 At Mr. Berlusconi's behest, the chief executive of Intesa Sanpaolo, Corrado Passera, worked with the government to engineer the recent bailout of the airline Alitalia. Mr. Berlusconihad pledged during his election campaign to keep the flagship carrier Italian, which meant nationalizing the airline's losses while trading favors to get private investors to buy a major stake. 
 Unicredit's shares have plummeted in recent weeks, but it has so far avoided the need for help from the state. Last week, the government of Libya bought a 5 percent stake, becoming the bank's second largest shareholder. 
 If private recapitalization fails and Unicredit turns to Mr. Berlusconi for state financing, it would wind up ''reducing the independence of these very important banks that had previously been out of his grasp,'' said Michele Polo, an economics professor at Bocconi University in Milan.
 Is all this power for Mr. Berlusconi good for the country? 
 ''My immediate response is yes,'' said Alberto Bombassei, vice president of Confindustria. ''In difficult moments it's good for the country to have a more decisive government.'' 
 Beyond the economic uncertainty, Mr. Berlusconi, who seems to enjoy life on the precipice, still remains vulnerable. He is on trial in absentia in Milan, accused of concealing illegal accounts. Italy's constitutional court is reviewing a law that would grant him immunity. 
 Paolo Bonaiuti, Mr. Berlusconi's spokesman, said reports of the prime minister's increased power were overstated. ''He has the support of the public,'' Mr. Bonaiuti said. ''What's the problem?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, 72, leaving a European Union summit meeting in Brussels last week before heading to a dance club in Milan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEERT VANDEN WIJNGAERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%)

COMPANY: IL SOLE 24 ORE SPA (57%); IL SOLE 24 ORE SYSTEM CONCESSIONARIA DI PUBBLICITA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

TICKER: S24 (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (50%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GORDON BROWN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); ROME, GA, USA (52%) GEORGIA, USA (52%) ITALY (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



911 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Scandal Hinders I.M.F's Role in Global Lending

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund, onetime firefighter for the global economy, is suddenly being called back into action, even as its chief stumbles on his way to the rescue.
 The fund is nearing agreements to make emergency loans to Iceland and Ukraine, and discussing aid packages with Pakistan and Hungary -- moves that would thrust it into the thick of a global crisis after a frustrating period in which it was a bystander.
 It is a welcome return to form for the fund, which lent billions of dollars to crisis-torn economies in Indonesia, Mexico and Argentina -- and was later shunned by countries for the strict condition that it attached to bailouts. 
 Yet at the fund's headquarters here, the water-cooler talk is all about a crisis in the life of its managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who is being investigated after accusations that he abused his power in an affair with a female co-worker, who resigned in August. 
 ''It's coming at an extremely inconvenient time for the fund,'' said Michael Mussa, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and a former chief economist of the fund. ''If there is a groundswell against him, it would affect the institution's ability to do business.''
 Given the fund's rapidly expanding obligations around the world, Mr. Mussa and other experts said it needed to resolve Mr. Strauss-Kahn's case quickly. They point to Paul D. Wolfowitz, who bitterly fought a campaign to oust him as president of the World Bank because of his personal conduct -- dividing the staff and depleting the institution before he resigned. 
 This scandal, they say, is also undermining the fund's credibility at a time when world leaders are embarking on an ambitious effort to write new rules for the international financial marketplace -- a discussion in which the fund should, by all accounts, play a major role.
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn has issued an apology to staff members and to the woman with whom he carried on the brief relationship. The fund's executive board has hired a law firm to investigate the charges against him, and hopes to make a decision after it receives the firm's report by the end of the month.
 By then, officials at the fund say, it could be lending emergency funds to at least two countries, and perhaps three. As the financial crisis hop-scotches around the world, it is infecting emerging-market economies from Central Europe to Latin America. For several countries, struggling with a sudden flight of foreign capital, the fund is emerging as a necessary last resort to stabilize their banks and prevent a wholesale economic collapse. 
 ''The bank bailouts in Europe and the United States have, if anything, put more pressure on emerging markets, making them look even riskier,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''It's happening faster than I would have thought, even two weeks ago.''
 As the roster of troubled countries grows, the list of places they can go for help has not. The United States and Western Europe are in the middle of their own costly financial bailouts. While huge sovereign wealth funds have sprung up in the Middle East and Asia, economists say borrowing from them could prove more painful than borrowing from the fund.
 Iceland, for example, turned to Russia after the crisis set off a collapse in its currency, overwhelming its three main banks, which had borrowed heavily in foreign currencies. After sending a delegation to Moscow to negotiate a loan of up to 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion), it came up empty-handed.
 Now, the Icelandic government says it is close to a deal with the fund, which fund officials said could be supplemented by money from Russia, Norway and Japan. The package would be worth $6 billion, these officials said, of which about $1 billion would come from the fund itself.
 ''Iceland must have faced the cold reality that however distasteful they found borrowing from the I.M.F., it was preferable to borrowing from Russia,'' said Mr. Rogoff, also a former chief economist at the fund.
 If Iceland borrows money from the fund, it would be the first Western country to do so since Britain in 1976, which was then suffering from a combination of soaring inflation and a swooning currency.
 The fund, officials say, is in advanced talks for a loan of up to $15 billion to Ukraine, which suffers some of the same ailments as Iceland, with an added measure of political turmoil from a split in its governing coalition. Its inflation rate, at 24.6 percent, is the highest in Europe.
 Agreements with Pakistan and Hungary appear farther away, according to fund officials. Pakistani officials met with the fund on Tuesday in Dubai. The country's economy has deteriorated, along with the political and security situation, as the Pakistani military skirmishes with Taliban and Al Qaeda militants in the frontier region near the Afghan border. 
 Prime Minister Asif Ali Zardari traveled to Beijing last week to ask for aid, but was rebuffed. With the United States unlikely to pitch in, analysts said, Pakistan had little choice but to turn to the fund -- a politically unpopular step that the government has characterized as a last resort.
 Hungary has said much the same thing, and last week it obtained a 5.6 billion euro ($7.2 billion) loan from the European Central Bank to help meet debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies. But with its currency, the forint, badly damaged by spillover effects from the crisis, Hungary will need additional assistance from the fund, some analysts predicted. 
 All these countries are suffering some form of a balance-of-payments crisis -- an affliction the fund knows well from its experience in crises in Southeast Asia and Latin America in the 1990s.
 Officials said the fund had about $200 billion available for loans -- a modest sum compared with the cost of the banking bailouts being rushed through by the United States, Britain and other European countries, but enough to stabilize the likes of Iceland or Ukraine.
 Publicly, Mr. Strauss-Kahn has maintained a confident stance, issuing statements that the fund stands ready to help countries and giving what staff members described as a rousing speech during its recent annual meeting. He also pledged to cooperate with the fund's investigation of his sexual relationship with Piroska Nagy, a former senior official in the Africa department.
 A former French finance minister, Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 59, had been popular with the executive board, despite ousting some respected fund officials and pushing through a painful cost-cutting program. 
 But the details of his affair -- and questions about the handling of Ms. Nagy's departure last summer -- have left staff members slack-jawed, according to several officials. Mr. Strauss-Kahn tried to address those concerns with a lengthy apology e-mail message to the staff on Monday. 
 The fund, officials noted, is a highly centralized institution, where power flows from the managing director. Mr. Strauss-Kahn will have to sign off on the conditions and details of each of its emergency loans.
 If Mr. Strauss-Kahn is consumed defending his job over the next few weeks or months, these officials said, it would hamper the fund's ability to move as quickly as it needs to in responding to the crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the I.M.F. managing director, is under investigation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: A Lower Profile: Since it was founded, the International Monetary Fund has played an active role in lending to countries that have stumbled into economic and financial distress. Often, in order to receive those loans, countries have had to adopt austere economic policies. and Here are some major I.M.F. deals over the last few decades. Chart details AMOUNT, IN BILLIONS, IF KNOWN. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); BANK FAILURES (74%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); LAWYERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND (92%); HUNGARY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



912 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Was Lehman Loss All That Bad?

 BODY:
Conventional wisdom across the globe is that American authorities made a ghastly error in not saving Lehman Brothers. But was it really such a tragedy?
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, almost certainly didn't anticipate the global panic that swept over the financial system after Lehman went bust, causing other banks to tumble like dominoes. And clearly in the ensuing conflagration shareholders and speculators have been burned. Taxpayers across the world have also had to pledge more than $2 trillion to rescue the industry.
But remember that this crisis didn't come out of a blue sky. Wall Street and the City of London had been on a multiyear borrowing binge. The bubble had to burst. And, after it did last year, the leverage had to come out of the system. 
If Lehman had been saved, a cataclysmic month might have been avoided. But there would still have been a series of minibanking crises. Such death by a thousand cuts -- similar to the one suffered by Japan in the 1990s after its bubble burst -- would have been less dramatic but might, ultimately, have been more debilitating.
Lehman's bankruptcy may have been precisely the wake-up call that governments needed. It also terrified the banking industry so much that it was prepared to drink some pretty unpleasant medicine, though everything that the authorities have done has not been perfect.
The broad approach of stuffing the banks with capital and getting them off their addiction to short-term borrowing doesn't just seem to have brought the immediate panic to an end. It is also helping to put the industry's finances onto a healthier longer-term footing.
So Lehman's bankruptcy may not have been a ghastly error after all. It's too early to be sure. But history may ultimately conclude it was more like a very lucky mistake.
Reluctant Vultures
Distressed debt prices have been plummeting. But despite the availability of increasingly cheap targets, the growing committee of so-called vulture funds that invest in shaky bonds and loans is only dipping in an occasional talon.
That seems odd. After all, Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data index of leveraged loans stood at around 70 on Monday, in line with the historical recovery rate on this type of loan in bankruptcy, which S.& P. pegs at 71. Leveraged loans would seem like a reasonably safe bet at that price.
But some of the vulture funds, especially the more opportunistic ones set up in the last year or so, like those backed by BlackRock, the biggest traded asset manager, and Eaton Vance, a large wealth manager, originally planned to snap up leveraged buyout-related debt that was trading at the time in the high 80s or even 90s on the S.& P. leveraged loan index.
Those that did put money into loans at those prices might now be sitting on paper losses. To offset that, some funds have dipped into the market now and then to lower the average cost of their holdings, but they're generally not buying big chunks.
Other types of vultures, often those associated with private equity firms like Apollo or Cerberus, look to acquire controlling positions in companies through the bankruptcy process. Many of them are sitting on the sidelines, waiting for borrowers to get closer to default before they swoop in.
There's the chance prices could fall more, especially if investors think historical recovery rates don't reflect what they'll be able to claw back if the companies go bust.
That's possible -- the debt issued in the most recent boom was, on average, of lower credit quality than that issued in earlier cycles, and it was festooned with borrower-friendly innovations that could impede lenders' recovery.
Also, while there is now only $40 billion or so of United States leveraged buyout-related loans stuck on bank balance sheets -- a sixth of last year's peak -- another overhang threatens. S.& P. estimates that hedge funds and structured investment vehicles hold $50 billion in loans they might be forced to sell.
That dam may already be cracking. The volume of loan portfolios sold in the first three weeks of October has already beaten the previous monthly record.
Worries about the overhang are enough to make even hungry vultures think twice about pouncing now.
HUGO DIXON and DWIGHT CASS
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers cleared out of the offices of Lehman Brothers in New York last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



913 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Council Schedules Thursday Vote on Term Limits Change

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Reporting was contributed by Michael Barbaro, Sewell Chan, Jonathan P. Hicks and Fernanda Santos.

 BODY:
Setting up a showdown over one of the most divisive issues in recent political memory, Speaker Christine C. Quinn announced Tuesday that the City Council would vote Thursday on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to revise the term limits law so he can pursue four more years in office.
 Supporters of the change said the move reflected Mr. Bloomberg's and Ms. Quinn's confidence that they have gathered the 26 Council votes needed to pass the legislation. 
 There are also signs that public opinion is tilting against the change, and privately some allies of Ms. Quinn say she is anxious, if not desperate, to hold the vote before an advertising campaign opposing the change takes hold.
 ''If it's not on Thursday, they're in trouble,'' said one council member who supports the bill, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to upset the mayor or the speaker. 
 The vote would come just three weeks after Mr. Bloomberg announced his plan to change the law, saying he wants to steer the city through the economic troubles resulting from Wall Street's crisis. Opponents have complained that Ms. Quinn is rushing the measure through for the mayor. Late last week, two days of public hearings attracted standing-room-only crowds, and most who spoke argued against the bill.
 A close vote is expected, and both sides intensified their lobbying efforts Tuesday, as if in the final strides of a campaign. Inside City Hall, council members shuttled in and out for meetings with the speaker and with the mayor, while out on the steps of City hall, a rotating band of opponents took turns denouncing the plan.
 The law, which has been approved in public referendums twice in the last 15 years, now limits city officials and council members to two consecutive four-year terms, and if Mr. Bloomberg's bill passes, they would be allowed three terms. 
 But if the bill fails, it would be a stunning defeat for a popular mayor who has rarely failed to sway the Council to his side of an issue.
 The outcome will affect the political fates of more than 40 officials whose terms are scheduled to expire at the end of 2009. These include Mr. Bloomberg, 35 of the Council's 51 members, the public advocate, the city comptroller and four of five borough presidents.
 As of Tuesday evening, 17 council members favored the bill, 21 were opposed, and the remaining 13 were undecided. But administration officials, and their allies, said that they were confident that they would prevail.
 ''The votes are there, the votes are there,'' said Councilman Kendall Stewart, who represents Brooklyn. ''It's going to be 28 or 29 for, and 4 or 5 abstain and the rest against.''
 One key constituency is the 16 council members who are not scheduled to be forced out of office. While Bloomberg allies have said that they would like to allow those first-term members to serve three terms, too, the cosmetics heir Ronald S. Lauder may complicate matters.
 It was Mr. Lauder's money and advocacy that originally paved the way for term limits, and it was only recently that Mr. Bloomberg convinced a reluctant Mr. Lauder that the economic crisis necessitated a third term for the mayor. In exchange for Mr. Lauder's support, Mr. Bloomberg promised him a seat on a charter revision commission that would probably try to restore the two-term limit in a subsequent referendum, likely in 2010. 
 ''I believe very strongly that the mayor should get the extra term and the City Council should get a third term,'' Mr. Lauder said in an interview. ''That is part of the deal. But I never spoke about the first-term council members.''
 Mr. Lauder's views certainly weighed on several first-term council members who attended a caucus meeting on Tuesday morning.
 Councilwoman Letitia James of Brooklyn said that since Mr. Lauder was casting doubt on the assurances the mayor and the speaker have given to first-termers, ''freshmen are beginning to feel very uncomfortable. There are no guarantees that they are protected.''
 Ms. James was among those council members heartened by a Quinnipiac University poll released Tuesday morning. By 89 percent to 7 percent, city residents prefer changing term limits by referendum, according to the poll; 51 percent oppose extending term limits altogether, even if it means denying Mr. Bloomberg a run at a third term.
 For Mr. Bloomberg, though, the poll offered the good news that he is still very popular: voters approve of his job performance by 75 percent to 20 percent. 
 Asked about the public's preference that term limits be decided through referendum, Mr. Bloomberg said it was too late and too legally problematic to call for a special election or referendum. He also dismissed suggestions that he chose to work through the Council since he could be more confident of the result. 
 ''I'm not trying to manipulate the system for an outcome,'' he said, during an event at the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, announcing the economic effect of the recent East River waterfalls. 
 Back at City Hall, though, Mr. Bloomberg was doing his best to persuade council members to go along with his plan. One of those he encountered, Peter F. Vallone Jr., of Queens, announced his support afterward.
 ''I'm doing what I think is right,'' said Mr. Vallone, the son of a former City Council speaker who is also an avid supporter. ''This is actually against my own personal interest. What I've done is in the best interest of the people of the city.''
 As Mr. Vallone walked out of the parking lot, he was greeted by Councilman David Yassky of Brooklyn, who is among those yet to make up their minds. He and two other undecided council members were scheduled to meet later with Ms. Quinn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); APPROVALS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



914 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Canada Cuts Quarter Point In Key Rate

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada reduced its key lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Tuesday, about half the amount most analysts had expected.
 But the central bank, which cut its overnight rate to 2.25 percent, indicated that further reductions were likely. 
 ''Some further monetary stimulus will likely be required to achieve the 2 percent inflation target over the medium term,'' the bank said in a statement. ''The evolution of the financial crisis, its impact on the global economy and the timing of the effects of the various extraordinary measures being taken to address it pose significant risks to the projection.''
 During the campaign that led up to last week's federal election in Canada, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who was returned to government, repeatedly suggested that Canada had escaped the worst of the global financial crisis. Tighter regulatory controls have left the country's major banks in good financial health. And while prices for energy and commodities, which play a disproportionate role in Canada's economy, have declined, they still remain comparatively high.
 But Mr. Harper softened those comments toward the end of the campaign, and the Bank of Canada said Tuesday that the country would not escape the consequences of tightening in international banking markets and an overall slowdown in the United States, Canada's major trading partner.
 ''The outlook for growth and inflation in Canada is now more uncertain than usual,'' the bank said.
 Because some currency traders view the Canadian dollar as something of a petro currency, lowered expectations for oil prices have dragged down its value against the United States dollar. Provided that manufacturers can find customers in the United States, the decline in the Canadian dollar could ease some of the strain the companies felt after the currency floated at about par with the American dollar, effectively making their products more expensive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



915 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Samsung Withdraws SanDisk Bid

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
The global credit turmoil and the grim outlook for economic growth claimed another victim in mergers and acquisitions on Wednesday as Samsung Electronics withdrew its $5.9 billion takeover bid for the flash memory card maker SanDisk, citing poor earnings potential at the American company and the current financial crisis. 
 Samsung Electronics's decision comes after months-long standoff with SanDisk, for which the South Korean company had offered $26 a share.
 In September, SanDisk, which is based in California, had rejected the unsolicited offer as too low, deriding it as an opportunistic bid timed to take advantage of falling valuations amid an industry-wide downturn.
 SanDisk's stock has fallen sharply this year, well below $26 a share, as the $14 billion-a-year market for flash memory cards -- key components of devices like digital cameras and MP3 music players -- has been hit by declining demand, overcapacity and falling chip prices.
 Earlier this week, the company reported a second consecutive quarterly loss, and with consumer demand for devices that use flash drives expected to decline further as global growth slows, the outlook looks grim.
 ''We squarely face the growing uncertainties in your business, which may continue to deteriorate in this difficult economic environment and further impact your standalone value,'' said Lee Yoon Woo, Samsung's chief executive officer, in an open letter addressed to SanDisk's board.
 The attempted deal is the latest in a string of potential transactions that has been abandoned amid the global economic and financial turmoil in recent weeks.
 Last week, PCCW, the dominant telecommunications operator in Hong Kong, was forced to drop plans to sell a 45 percent stake in a key business unit. PCCW had hoped to raise up to $2.5 billion for the stake in HKT, a newly created holding group for most of its core fixed-line, broadband and television assets.
 Also this month, Huawei, a Chinese telecoms equipment maker, put off its plans to sell control of its mobile devices unit after several shortlisted bidders abandoned their interest amid declining growth prospects and rising credit costs. The deal had been expected to raise $2 billion for the Shenzhen group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FLASH DRIVES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); INTERNET AUDIO (68%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (68%); BROADBAND (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (84%); SAMSUNG GROUP (58%)

TICKER: SMSN (LSE) (84%); 005930 (KSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%) HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



916 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Palin's Hand Seen in Battle Over Mine in Alaska

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and JO BECKER

DATELINE: EKWOK, Alaska 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Sarah Palin landed near this tiny native village and spoke of her love for the vast and starkly beautiful delta that drains into Bristol Bay.
 ''I am a commercial fisherman; my daughter's name is Bristol,'' said Ms. Palin, then a candidate for governor. ''I could not support a project that risks one resource that we know is a given, and that is the world's richest spawning grounds, over another resource.''
 Many here took her words to heart. But as governor, Ms. Palin has helped ease the way for a proposed copper and gold mine of near-mythic proportions at the headwaters of Bristol Bay, the world's greatest spawning ground for wild salmon. 
 If state regulators give their approval, mining companies plan to carve an open pit that would rival the world's largest mines, descending half a mile and taking as much energy to operate daily as the city of Anchorage. That prospect has ignited a war between Alaska's two historic industries, mining and fishing. 
 Scientists and former state and federal biologists warn that toxic residue from the project, known as Pebble Mine, would irreparably harm a centuries-old salmon fishing industry that employs 17,000 and hauls in $100 million annually.
 Opposition is fierce and broad. Three former governors, two Republicans and a Democrat, have spoken out against the mine, as have Senator Ted Stevens, a Republican; commercial fishing firms; and many Alaska Natives in Bristol Bay. 
 From the days of the 19th-century gold rush, mining has been encoded in Alaska's DNA. And Pebble Mine, with the promise of 1,000 jobs in an economically depressed region, has a constituency. 
 Ms. Palin has remained officially neutral, saying that the state will evaluate the project when it receives a formal permit application. But she has embraced resource extraction in ways that are likely to help Pebble. On the presidential campaign trail in coal country this month, she led supporters in chants of ''Mine, baby, mine!''
 The governor appointed mining industry officials to lead her Department of Natural Resources, which regulates mines. And her environmental commissioner is a former lawyer for Red Dog, which is Alaska's largest mine and has a history of violations of the Clean Water Act.
 The revolving door spins both ways. Ken Taylor, a former fish and game official who was Ms. Palin's point man in her argument that global warming did not threaten polar bears, became environmental vice president for the Pebble Partnership in July. 
 In August, Alaskans defeated a ''Clean Water'' ballot measure aimed at preventing large mines like Pebble from releasing pollutants into salmon streams. Days before the vote, the Alaska Public Offices Commission found the Natural Resources Department's Web site had improperly featured material about the referendum that favored the mining industry. If there was any doubt where Ms. Palin stood, she dispelled it by speaking out against the measure. 
 Maria Comella, a spokeswoman for the McCain-Palin campaign, said the governor had taken a stand because mining is ''vital to the existence of so many Alaskans for jobs, local economic growth and long-term stability.'' 
 Other moves by the Palin administration could also help Pebble. It plans to use a $7 million federal earmark -- a practice she criticizes on the campaign trail -- for a major upgrade of a road through the snow-capped Chigmit range, records show. There are no villages along this route, but it would form the first leg of a proposed 200-mile thoroughfare between Pebble Mine and the Pacific Ocean.
 ''It's the road from nowhere to nowhere,'' said Geoffrey Parker, a land-use lawyer and Pebble critic.
 The Palin administration declined to investigate ethics concerns raised by a Republican lawmaker who says mining officials have tried to buy the loyalty of native leaders, not least by paying $25,000 per month to house workers in the homes of influential locals.
 One of those houses is owned by Ethel and John Adcox, the parents of a close friend of Todd Palin, the governor's husband. The Adcoxes say that the $25,000 vastly exceeds the typical rate for their modest guesthouse in the tiny village of Iliamna. 
 ''We just feel privileged to live here when this money is being spent and villages are not dying,'' said Ethel Adcox, a Yup'ik leader and distant relative of Mr. Palin. 
 Pebble is feeding her entire village -- literally -- with free steak and lobster dinners each Sunday, she said, adding, ''It leaves a good taste in your mouth.'' 
 The lands around the Pebble site stretch to the horizon. Hundreds of grizzly bears sleep in its folds. The Mulchatna caribou herd tramps across the tundra. In the rivers that curl toward the Bering Sea, 40 million salmon come to spawn. 
 Beneath hills blanketed with a crazy quilt of moss and lichen, though, lurks a multibillion-dollar fortune in copper and gold, perhaps the greatest lode on the planet. The environmental challenges to mining there are formidable. 
 ''It is one giant wetland, and no one really understands how it works,'' said Carol Ann Woody, a biologist who served on the Pebble advisory team for the United States Geological Survey and views the mine as a threat. 
 Rain falls in torrents, winter temperatures hit 50 below and a geologic fault -- capable of producing catastrophic earthquakes -- sits 30 miles away. The proposed mine could produce seven billion tons of toxic waste rock; even traces of copper can disable a salmon's ability to navigate.
 Mine officials have said they may need to build earthen walls the size of the Hoover Dam to contain a lake of toxic residue that would have to be tended forever. ''In the short or the long run, it will have a disastrous effect,'' said Lance Trasky, who monitored the project until he retired as a senior supervisor with the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. 
 John Shively, chief executive of Pebble, disagreed, saying that with cutting-edge environmental technology, ''it probably is possible to engineer something that is safe.'' The question, he said, comes down to cost. 
 State officials have granted Pebble permission to conduct exploratory drilling but make no promises a mine will be permitted. Ms. Palin has said Alaska has the ''right people in place'' to evaluate Pebble's plans. 
 Alaska regulators, however, have never rejected an application for a large mine, according to state officials. Scientists paid by Pebble are conducting geological and biological studies that the state will use to make its decision. The company also underwrites travel expenses and salaries of the state scientists who analyze those studies.
 ''Everyone Palin hears from comes from the mining industry'' Mr. Trasky said.
 The mine presents a complicated personal challenge for the governor. Her husband owns a fishing license in Bristol Bay, from which he derives a small income. He also is one-eighth Yup'ik and holds shares in a native corporation that has a service contract with Pebble. 
 Pebble money is everywhere in Bristol Bay. Bush pilots receive princely sums to fly workers to the mine. Pebble pays top dollar for cooks and young people who watch for bears around the mine site. It spends $14 million annually on ''community outreach.''
 A former State Senate president, Rick Halford, a Republican with a home in the region, said ''the mine is on a continuous mission to buy the body politic.''
 A year ago, State Representative Jay Ramras, a Republican, wrote to Ms. Palin and her attorney general complaining that Pebble had flown native leaders to Anchorage for conferences and handed them envelopes with cash per diems, which the company later said amounted to $200 each. Native officials, who could eventually vote on critical aspects of the mine, were benefiting from the project, Mr. Ramras added.
 A deputy attorney general replied that he could not investigate ''rumor or innuendo'' and requested details, saying he would have the public safety commissioner evaluate the accusations. 
 Mr. Ramras obliged, but the information was never passed on. The governor's spokeswoman, Sharon Leighow, said the deputy ''looked at the information, saw there was no criminal activity and that's where it stopped.'' 
 Pebble officials say they are building good will through economic opportunity. ''To say that giving a person a job is a bribe -- I just don't get that,'' Mr. Shively said. 
 Kevin Jensen, a local village council member, took a job last year as a community liaison for Pebble Partnership, which he said could offset the hardship created by declining fish prices. ''I'm not saying that the fish and water don't need protecting,'' he said. ''But to say this is the only thing that is worth saving is ridiculous.''
 When Lydia Olympic, council president of a nearby village, received a similar job offer, she saw it as a conflict and turned Pebble down. ''I didn't think about it,'' she said. ''I began to speak out against the mine.''
 So did Luki Akelkok, a tough block of a man who drives a dog sled 80 miles across the frozen delta to a cabin near the mine site. He is the grand old man of Ekwok, a roadless Yup'ik village set along a salmon-rich river, and in April 2007, he led a petition drive to stop Pebble Mine.
 He tapped deep roots of outrage. Many native people are cash poor but survive by hunting caribou and netting fish. His petitions resulted in last summer's clean-water ballot measure. 
 Mining companies paid to fly Mr. Palin, who grew up near here and is an unofficial adviser to his wife, on a fact-finding tour of Alaska mines. The industry spent $12 million fighting the referendum.
 Then Ms. Palin spoke out against the measure. Her words immediately appeared in television commercials paid for by the mines, and the referendum failed.
 In Ekwok last month, Mr. Akelkok chewed strips of cured salmon pulled from his smokehouse. Down by the Nushagak River, salmon nets hang in wood sheds, symbols of a timeless past. 
 On a nearby gravel runway sat a symbol of the future: a 10-seat Navajo propeller plane that ferries Pebble workers. A young Yup'ik man emerged from a stand of alders and climbed aboard. 
 Mr. Akelkok watched from his banged-up pickup truck with a ''No Pebble'' sticker on the door. He shook his head. 
 ''Why did she have to say anything?'' he asked. ''Everyone is ticked off at Sarah.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Shively, left, and Gernot Wober of Pebble Partnership, which is doing exploratory drilling.
A wild sockeye salmon spawning in the Bristol Bay region. Critics fear pollution from the mine will harm fishing in the area.
 A panoramic view of the site of Pebble Mine, a proposed copper and gold mine at the headwaters of Bristol Bay in Alaska. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Many Alaska Natives on Bristol Bay are opposed to the mine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FINFISH FISHING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FISHES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); COAL MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAMMALS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); GOLD MINING (74%); SURFACE MINING (74%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); BALLOTS (72%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); COPPER MINING (70%); BIOLOGY (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (63%); REFERENDUMS (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); WATER QUALITY (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); TED STEVENS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



917 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: On Health Plans, The Numbers Fly

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Economics, it is said, is the dismal science. Anyone paying close attention to the campaign debate over the economics of health care might wonder about the science part.
 As Senators Barack Obama and John McCain battle over how best to control spending and cover the uninsured, they are both filling their speeches, advertisements and debating points with authoritative-sounding statistics about the money they would save and the millions of Americans they would cover.
 But the figures they cite are invariably the roughest of estimates, often derived by health economists with ideological leanings or financial conflicts. Over time, these forecasts have become so disparate and contradictory as to be almost meaningless.
 How many of the country's 45 million uninsured would gain coverage under Mr. McCain's plan to reconfigure the tax treatment of health benefits? 
 Consultants paid by Mr. McCain concluded that his plan would cover 27.5 million of the uninsured. But four health economists who looked into the McCain plan at the urging of David Cutler, a health care adviser to Mr. Obama, reached a far different conclusion. They estimated in a peer-reviewed article in the journal Health Affairs that the number of uninsured would grow by 5 million after five years. 
 How much would it cost for Mr. Obama to offer subsidized health insurance to those with low incomes?
 Last week, the Lewin Group, a consulting firm, projected the cost to taxpayers at $1.17 trillion over 10 years. That was about 27 percent lower than the $1.6 trillion estimated by the Tax Policy Center, a joint project of the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution. And it bore little similarity to a $6 trillion estimate -- using a broader measurement -- put forth by HSI Network, a Minnesota consulting group that was paid $50,000 by the McCain campaign to assess both plans. 
 The campaigns acknowledge that the numbers are ''all over the map,'' in the words of Jay Khosla, a McCain adviser. But that does not keep them from selectively highlighting the most favorable ones (as when Mr. Obama says his plan will cut insurance premiums by $2,500 per family, or when Mr. McCain says his tax changes will leave 95 percent of Americans with more money). 
 Even the economists behind the forecasts say it makes them uncomfortable to hear candidates assert their numbers as indisputable fact, as if stating Derek Jeter's batting average. What they are modeling, they emphasize, is ultimately unknowable. And the transformational nature of both candidates' health care plans means that they can only guess at the future behavior of consumers, employers and insurers.
 ''Every candidate should say that these numbers were produced by my experts and they're my best estimates but they're not exact,'' said Roger D. Feldman, a health economist at the University of Minnesota who directed the HSI studies. ''But the campaign trail is not the time for 'on the one hand, on the other hand.' It's a system where you paint things in black and white.''
 Dr. Feldman and other economists said politics and relationships did not sway their science. But they said estimates could vary widely because of the assumptions they must factor into their formulas. Often they are flying blind because the campaigns, aware that details make the fiercest enemies, do not provide critical variables. Mr. Obama, for instance, has steadfastly declined to say how he would penalize employers who do not offer health coverage, an important component of his plan.
 The economists are often left to use small-scale studies to predict how the candidates' policies might affect the cost of coverage or the willingness of employers to provide it.
 ''The uncertainty surrounding what will happen under these policies is huge,'' said John F. Sheils, senior vice president of the Lewin Group.
 Sherry A. Glied, a Columbia economist and a co-author of the Health Affairs article about the McCain plan, said, ''We are estimating what would happen in a world we've never seen.'' 
 The more radical the restructuring, the economists said, the more they must assume. And the more they must assume, the greater the chance that ideology may drive methodology.
 ''It's garbage in, garbage out,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton. ''Every econometric study is an effort in persuasion. I have to persuade the other guy that my assumptions are responsible. Depending on what I feed into the model, I get totally different answers.''
 Katherine Baicker, a health economist at Harvard, said economists' views about the mechanics of markets were often shaped by their politics, or vice versa. ''Certainly people who work for the campaigns have a strong motivation to see things one way or another,'' she said, ''but even those not involved in campaigns still come to the table with their own prior beliefs.'' 
 Both candidates are surrounded by advisers with extensive backgrounds in health economics, many of whom could be in line for administration jobs.
 For Mr. McCain, there are Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Congressional Budget Office director; Stephen T. Parente of the University of Minnesota; Thomas P. Miller of the American Enterprise Institute; Gail Wilensky, a health adviser to the first President Bush; Grace-Marie Turner, president of the Galen Institute; and Mr. Khosla, a former Congressional aide.
 Mr. Obama receives advice from Mr. Cutler, David Blumenthal and Jeffrey Liebman, all of Harvard; Stuart Altman of Brandeis; Austan Goolsby of the University of Chicago; Jeanne M. Lambrew of the University of Texas; three campaign aides, Heather Higginbottom, Jason Furman and Neera Tanden; and a Senate office staff member, Dora Hughes. Campaign insiders suspect that if Mr. Obama is elected, a significant health-related position may go to Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader and an early Obama endorser who recently published a book on the subject with help from Ms. Lambrew.
 The conflicts that devalue economic estimates can be both political and financial.
 Mr. Obama, for example, has been claiming in speeches and advertisements that Mr. McCain would cut $882 billion in Medicare benefits to pay for his health plan. The number came from the Center for American Progress Action Fund, a Democratic-leaning group with close ties to the Obama campaign (Ms. Lambrew is a fellow). 
 ''Consider the source,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin urged reporters last Friday.
 A week earlier, Mr. Holtz-Eakin issued a news release trumpeting the HSI Network analysis of the McCain plan as ''an independent assessment.'' He did not mention that the campaign had paid for it (an Aug. 27 payment for $50,000 shows up in Mr. McCain's disclosure filings) or that Mr. Parente is one of the firm's owners.
 Dr. Feldman, whose work is highly regarded, described himself as an Obama supporter and contributor, but he said he preferred Mr. McCain's health plan. Though he acknowledged that the McCain campaign's sponsorship was ''certainly a potential conflict,'' he said he hoped the study might advance a worthy proposal. ''I wouldn't sign off on these things if I didn't support them,'' he said.
 A number of economists said voters would be wise to simply tune out all of the competing numbers and focus instead on the philosophical underpinnings of the candidates' plans. Indeed, Dr. Reinhardt offered voters the same instruction he delivers to his students, that economics as practiced in the political arena is often ''just ideology marketed in the guise of science.''
 ''I give a lecture on whether you can trust economists, and I tell them no,'' Dr. Reinhardt said. ''I tell them that if at the end of the year I tell you the time of day and you trust me, I have failed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); TAX LAW (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DEREK JETER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



918 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE HOT SEAT; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Struggles Leave a G.O.P. Incumbent to Fight a Democratic Tide

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: SALEM, N.H. 

 BODY:
The air was October crisp and the political rhetoric sizzling hot as Senator John E. Sununu, one of the most vulnerable Republican incumbents in the country, introduced Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska to a boisterous crowd waving red pompoms in the bleachers of the Salem High School football field. 
 ''I have been in the Senate for six years, but I am still the youngest member of the United States Senate,'' Mr. Sununu, 44, declared from a lectern on the 50-yard line last week. ''And I still have more experience than Barack Obama.'' 
 The crowd cheered and hooted, and Mr. Sununu pushed the attack onward, his jabs echoing remarks at rallies with Ms. Palin earlier in the day in Weirs Beach and in Dover, where he promoted Senator John McCain. ''This is the ticket that America needs,'' he said. ''In these tough economic times, my friends, as John McCain likes to say, we need leadership.'' 
 If there was a swing state in America where a ticket headed by Mr. McCain was supposed to have long coattails it was New Hampshire, where he defied the odds to win presidential primaries in 2000 and 2008. But with Mr. McCain skidding in the polls amid a rising tide of Democrats here, Mr. Sununu, who is battling to keep his job in one of this year's most bitterly contested Senate races, is hardly hitching a ride to easy re-election. 
 Instead, Mr. Sununu finds himself in a jam, forced to engage in raw politicking to help prop up the Republican ticket and energize the party's apathetic base. But even as he is scheduled to appear at a rally with Mr. McCain on Wednesday in Goffstown, he also desperately needs to appeal to independents and Democrats at a time when persuading supporters of Mr. Obama to split the ticket may be his only hope of winning his own race. 
 Mr. Sununu is in a grueling rematch against former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen in a state that is emblematic of a national climate in which Republicans are in danger of ceding Democrats a filibuster-proof Senate majority for the first time in 30 years. 
 Also emblematic is the quandary Mr. Sununu faces in relation to Mr. McCain's faltering campaign. Two other Republican senators up for re-election, Susan Collins of Maine and Norm Coleman of Minnesota, have called on the McCain camp to stop automated phone calls criticizing Mr. Obama that they fear will anger voters. 
 In Oregon, another vulnerable Republican, Senator Gordon H. Smith, has even run television advertisements suggesting that he and Mr. Obama are of like minds on some issues. 
 With Senate races everywhere overshadowed by the fight for the White House, perhaps nowhere is the top of the ballot a bigger or more complicated factor than in New Hampshire -- a contest that both parties view as critical in determining how much control the Democrats will have in Congress. 
 Mr. McCain, who won the presidential primaries here by emphasizing his maverick flair, had long held the potential for broad appeal among New Hampshire's independent-minded electorate. That, combined with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's victory in the Democratic primary, left Mrs. Shaheen reluctant to tie herself too closely to Mr. Obama.
 New Hampshire voters know Mr. McCain well -- he campaigned tirelessly here during the primary, and held more than 100 town-hall-style meetings. But some voters who supported him when he first ran in 2000 now say they are disappointed in him. 
 ''I can't listen to John McCain anymore,'' said Cathy Farley, who manages a dental office in Manchester and said she found it unbearable to watch Mr. McCain in last Wednesday night's debate, even though she voted for him in the primary in January and also in 2000 when he thumped Mr. Bush by 18 points.
 Mrs. Farley, an independent, said that for many years she did not have health insurance and that she would most likely vote for Mr. Obama, in part because she expected he would do a better job expanding coverage. 
 But she also said that she had unhappy memories of Mrs. Shaheen as governor from 1997 to 2002, and that left her open to voting for Mr. Sununu.
 More common, though, seem to be voters like Mrs. Farley's husband, Mike, who plans to back Mr. Obama and Mrs. Shaheen, and is evidence of the growing numerical challenge that Republicans face. 
 The University of New Hampshire this month released a study of the state's demographics, showing substantial gains among Democrats and independents who identify themselves more closely with the Democrats. 
 About one-quarter of the electorate -- nearly 250,000 voters -- has changed since Mr. Sununu and Mrs. Shaheen first ran against each other in 2002. ''Both young voters and recent migrants are more likely to identify themselves as Democrats and less likely to identify with Republicans than are established voters,'' the authors wrote. 
 In 2002, when President Bush was still popular, Republicans had an 11-percentage-point advantage among registered voters and Mr. Sununu won by slightly more than 4 percent. This year, registered voters are split evenly, the presidential race is expected to generate record turnout and many voters say they cannot wait to usher Mr. Bush out. 
 Under the circumstances, Democrats say they are virtually unbeatable. Buoyed by the enormous popularity of Gov. John Lynch, who is expected to win re-election overwhelmingly, Democrats say they hope to solidify the gains made in 2006 when they captured the State Legislature and both Congressional seats, riding a wave of discontent with the Iraq war. 
 Rebecca Fee, 66, a grandmother of two from Salem, who attended an Obama rally on Thursday at Mack's apple orchard in Londonderry, said she had switched to independent after being a longtime Republican. She voted for Mr. McCain in the Republican primary in 2000, then for Ralph Nader that November. 
 Wearing a ''Dog Lovers for Obama'' button, she said that this year she would vote for Mr. Obama and for Mrs. Shaheen, even though she did not like Mrs. Shaheen as governor and felt some loyalty to Mr. Sununu, who grew up in Salem. 
 ''I probably will vote for Jeanne Shaheen because I think it's important to get the 60 senators for the majority,'' Ms. Fee said. As for Mr. McCain, she said: ''I'm so sad. He used to be a good man, somebody you could trust.'' 
 Mrs. Shaheen was not at the rally in Londonderry. But in the candidates' first televised debate on Tuesday night, which featured several heated, even angry exchanges, she tied herself to the Democratic nominee. 
 ''I am confident that if we have new leadership -- I believe we are going to have Barack Obama as the next president -- and we have a new senator in Washington representing New Hampshire, that we can move this country in a different direction,'' she said. 
 The state Republican Party has struggled since Mr. Sununu's last race in 2002, when an effort by party operatives to jam Democratic phone lines and disrupt get-out-the-vote efforts led to convictions of four men on federal charges and left the state party virtually broke under a pile of legal bills. 
 One upside for Republicans this year, though, is that the state has ended straight-ticket voting, the practice of allowing voters to pull the lever once for all candidates of one party. Straight-ticket voting was a major factor in the Democratic sweep in 2006. 
 Advisers and supporters of Mr. Sununu say he can win even if Mr. McCain fails to carry New Hampshire. Although Mr. Sununu has trailed in polls throughout the year, most recently by five to nine points, he is not as far behind Mrs. Shaheen as Mr. McCain is behind Mr. Obama. 
 ''All we need is for McCain to keep it close,'' said Fergus Cullen, the chairman of the state Republican Party. ''And he is.'' 
 But even some of the most steadfast conservative Republicans said they do not expect Mr. McCain to win New Hampshire this year. Take Andrew Hemingway, his wife, Katie, and their 13-month-old daughter, Morgan. 
 ''We're very conservative Republicans,'' Mr. Hemingway, 26, said as they left a rally in Weirs Beach, where Ms. Palin held Morgan up on the stage before a backdrop of Lake Winnipesaukee and fall foliage. ''We're excited about Sarah Palin,'' he said. ''We're not so excited about McCain.'' 
 The couple intend to vote for Mr. McCain, they just have no hope he can win. ''Obama is going to win this state,'' Mr. Hemingway said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire, who is seeking re-election, campaigned in Salem at a rally for Gov. Sarah Palin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (58%); GORDON SMITH (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2008



919 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Tracking Firm Says Bets Placed on Lehman Have Been Quietly Settled

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Hundreds of traders who placed bets on Lehman Brothers' creditworthiness before it went bankrupt have settled their positions ''without incident,'' according to a company that tracks derivatives contracts. 
 The company, Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation, processes large numbers of investment transactions. It said that only $5.2 billion had to change hands for all the traders to close out their positions, a much smaller amount than had been predicted a week ago. 
 The settlement process had been seen as a major test of the market for credit-default swaps, and whether it could handle the unprecedented stress of a big Wall Street firm going bankrupt. The overall system appears to have borne the shock successfully, although individual firms might have taken painful losses they have not yet disclosed.
 At the same time, the contrast between this week's orderly settlement process and last month's financial turmoil, which also involved credit-default swaps, raised anew policy questions over the market for credit derivatives and its failure to limit systemic risk. Because the swaps are private contracts between two parties, there is still almost no information in the public domain over who holds which positions, or who might be left teetering the next time there is a major default.
 The lack of information is thought to have fueled the general panic in mid-September, when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and the American International Group came to the brink of collapse before being rescued by the Federal Reserve. 
 As if to underscore the opacity of the market, American International said this week that it had to pay only $6.2 million to settle all of its credit-default swaps on Lehman's debt. The amount was much smaller than had been expected, given A.I.G.'s big presence in the market for credit-default swaps, and given that A.I.G. required an emergency line of credit worth $85 billion from the Fed. 
 A spokesman for A.I.G., Nicholas J. Ashooh, said that the company had needed the big loan from the Fed because of its high level of exposure in other areas, but not on its derivatives trades on Lehman's debt. He said that A.I.G. had written many derivatives contracts on Lehman's debt, but because they took opposing trading positions they almost completely canceled each other out during the settlement process. 
 ''Lehman was not the source of our problem,'' Mr. Ashooh said. ''Our issue really preceded that. We were already having problems when Lehman went under.'' 
 He said most of A.I.G.'s problems with the credit derivatives involved swaps that covered the financial strength of complex debt securities linked to the housing market. 
 Credit-default swaps are similar to insurance, providing coverage to investors who hold a company's bonds or other fixed-income instruments. In the event of a default, the one who sold the protection has to pay the one who bought it. 
 In Lehman Brothers' case, Depository Trust & Clearing calculated the amount of payments each trader would pay or receive, based on the price of Lehman Brothers' bonds, which was set in a special auction on Oct. 10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); DEPOSITORY TRUST & CLEARING CORP (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



920 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Eminem Resurfaces in New Role: Memoirist

BYLINE: By JON CARAMANICA

 BODY:
Four years ago, Eminem, one of the best-selling rappers in history, released his last album of original material, ''Encore,'' and then essentially disappeared. The years since have been pockmarked with personal struggles. He entered rehab in 2005 for a dependency on sleep medication. In 2006 he remarried, and then redivorced, his ex-wife, Kim Scott, the subject of many of his most vitriolic songs. And that same year his closest friend, the rapper Proof, was killed in a shooting at a Detroit nightclub.
 In his new book, ''The Way I Am,'' Eminem hopes to set the record straight. ''I'm really just a normal guy. You can ask my neighbors,'' he writes in the book. ''I ride a bike. I walk the dog. I mow my lawn. I'm out there every Sunday, talking to myself, buck naked, mowing the lawn with a chain saw.'' 
 Well, one out of three isn't bad. ''I do ride my bike, I don't have a dog, I don't mow my lawn,'' Eminem, 36, admitted in a phone interview from a Detroit studio on Monday night. But otherwise he's been living the life of a suburban father, taking care of three girls: Hailie, his daughter with Kim; Alaina, his niece; and Whitney, Kim's daughter from another relationship.
 And now Eminem, born Marshall Mathers, is tentatively re-entering public life with his book, published by Dutton this week. Part autobiography, part photo gallery, part ephemera collection, it's a handsome midcareer (and midlife) roundup for an artist who has been notoriously reluctant to discuss his personal life anyplace but in his music.
 ''In a way this is the end of the first chapter of his career,'' said Paul Rosenberg, Eminem's manager. ''Em's looking forward now. He's very re-energized and refocused.''
 Originally intended to be ''a scrapbook for my fans,'' Eminem said, the book grew to include large chunks of first-person narratives culled from interviews with the journalist Sacha Jenkins, and presented in a conversational style. ''Rap is one big Fantasy Island,'' Eminem writes. ''It's the place I always retreat to when things get too hectic in real time.''
 In a section about his family and upbringing, he's discomfitingly frank: ''If you go back and look at the abuse that I took, it's no surprise I became who I am. Someone I don't really want to be.''
 Mr. Jenkins said: ''I think Em has an appeal that's very everyman. That's his natural voice in the book.'' He added: ''The guy has been out of the mix and not interacting with a lot of people, let alone a writer. But this was an opportunity for him to get a lot of stuff off his chest, especially in the wake of the death of his best friend.'' 
 In fact Eminem's memories of how Proof toughened him up as a young man are among the most vivid passages in ''The Way I Am.'' ''As difficult as it was to talk about, I had to,'' Eminem said. He also writes of how much his retreat from public life had to do with Proof's death: ''After he passed, it was a year before I could really do anything normally again. It was tough for me to even get out of bed, and I had days when I couldn't walk, let alone write a rhyme. When I tried to put my thoughts together -- well, I wasn't making sense when I spoke, so everyone was trying to keep me off TV and away from the press.'' 
 But while Eminem discusses some personal topics in the book -- fatherhood gets especially lengthy treatment (''Being a dad makes me feel powerful in a way that I hadn't known before, and it's the kind of power I don't want to abuse'') -- he almost completely avoids other, more familiar subjects, like his exceedingly public battles with his ex-wife and his mother, Debbie. (Next month Eminem's mother will release a memoir, ''My Son Marshall, My Son Eminem.'')
 ''Everyone already knows how I feel about those situations,'' Eminem said. ''I don't want to keep putting Kim and the kids in everything that I do, stuff where it's not necessary.'' The book, he said, is ''more about Eminem and less about Marshall.'' 
 And so it's the career artifacts, especially the handwritten lyrics, that receive place of privilege. 
 For years Eminem would scribble down snatches of lyrics on whatever piece of paper was available -- spiral notebooks, hotel memo pads -- and carry them around in a backpack. When he wanted to put together a song, he'd riffle through the sheets, pick out some lines that might go together and head into the studio. 
 ''I collect words and then I stack them up,'' Eminem said of his songwriting process. Often he'd write lyrics in a sort of code, leaving key words out. His reasoning: ''If you leave your rhyme pad laying around, no one can make sense of it but you.'' 
 More than two dozen of the sheets are reproduced in the book, and they're impressive in both content and appearance -- lyrics scrawled at odd angles, in different ink colors, at lengths varying from a few words to complete verses. A few of them -- ones that include lyrics from hits like ''My Name Is,'' ''Stan'' and ''Lose Yourself'' -- are on perforated pages so that they can be easily removed.
 ''It reminds me of the sort of crazy scribbling and writing like Russell Crowe's character in 'A Beautiful Mind,' '' said Mr. Rosenberg, referring to the Nobel Prize-winning economist John Nash. ''It's an organized chaos of thoughts.'' 
 (As for any aspiring rappers thinking of appropriating the unused material, Eminem jokingly offered: ''Whoever wants to use it, I guess, go ahead and use it. Take my scraps.'')
 In an era when stars like Jay-Z famously do not write down their rhymes, instead constructing them in their head and committing them to memory, ''The Way I Am'' is a celebration of a sort of artisanal approach to rhyme. 
 ''In the older hip-hop he has a connection to, lyric sheets have always played an important role,'' Mr. Jenkins said. ''He's a traditionalist.'' 
 In 2002 Eminem released the book ''Angry Blonde,'' largely a collection of lyrics -- reprinted, not the original handwritten sheets -- that sold about 77,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan. But that was near the height of his fame; this is a much less certain time for him. Still ''we never worried there wasn't a market,'' Mr. Rosenberg said. ''He's certainly done enough over his career to sustain interest, even with having stepped away for a couple of years.'' 
 And now Eminem appears ready to return to the world of music. He has been recording with Dr. Dre, with whom he has made his biggest hits, working on songs for his next album, to be called ''Relapse.'' (There are rumors that the album will be released by Interscope before year's end, but there has been no official word yet.) Last week he released a teaser freestyle, ''I'm Having a Relapse,'' on which he sounds vibrant and engaged, stacking characteristically profane and preposterous rhymes atop one another:
 It seems like every day I get a little flakier
 The medication is making my hands a little shakier
 Hand me that 18-month-old baby to shake him up
 It'll only take me a
 Second to choke his trachea. 
 In one of the book's most revealing sections, Eminem talks about how he happened upon his signature bottle-blond look, high on Ecstasy, around the time he was recording his first songs with Dr. Dre. It reads like a comic-book origin story, his new identity presaging a path of bad behavior to follow.
 Now that he's preparing to re-enter the musicworld, though, will the peroxide, and all that comes with it, return? ''My hair is back to its natural color,'' Eminem said. ''I don't think I'm going back to the dye.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eminem at a party in Manhattan for his book ''The Way I Am.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); WRITERS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); DOGS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



921 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2688 words

HEADLINE: After the House Is Gone

BYLINE: By JULIE SCELFO

 BODY:
MORE than a million homes have been lost to foreclosure in the last two years. And according to data from Mortgage Bankers Association, banks are now in the process of foreclosing on 1.5 million more. 
 The impact of the mortgage crisis has been obvious in both the worldwide credit crunch and the presidential campaign, where there has been a lot of talk about the plight of overextended homeowners. But the specific personal costs of home loss have been less evident, at least to those not paying them.
 Not surprisingly, the forced loss of a home -- the place where many of the memories that define a life and a family are made -- is deeply traumatic, according to Dr. Robert Gifford, an environmental psychologist at the University of Victoria, Canada. This is true, he said, even when the loss is due in part to a homeowner's own financial mismanagement.
 ''When you choose to move, of course you have to pack up and move, but you've probably chosen a better job, a better place, there's an upward trajectory to your life.'' Dr. Gifford said. ''When someone tells you you must leave,'' he continued, it undermines ''a key part of well-being: perceived control over your life.'' 
 And given that ''the home is the center of the psychological universe,'' Dr. Gifford added, ''when people lose it, it's like their planet blew up.''
 Dr. Rosalind Dorlen, a clinical psychologist in Summit, N.J., whose patients include many Wall Street workers, sees the home as a potent symbol of one's place in the social universe, of ''how you see yourself and how you want to be portrayed in the world.'' Losing that symbol can produce depression and a great sense of anxiety, she said.
 For those with few financial resources, finding a new place to live can also be challenging. 
 Forty-four percent of employees live paycheck to paycheck, according to a survey conducted by MetLife in late 2007, and 48 percent of American households have less than $5,000 in liquid assets according to Edward Wolff, an economist specializing in the study of poverty and income distribution at New York University. When people in such straitened circumstances can't keep up with mortgage payments, the resulting damage to credit ratings can make it nearly impossible to qualify for a lease. These families often find themselves at the mercy of friends or relatives, who may or may not be able to take them in.
 Some people are taking refuge in tent cities and parking lot communities across the country that have cropped up or expanded recently, from Santa Barbara, Calif., to Athens, Ga. Compared to them, the families profiled below are lucky. They have found accommodations, at least for now. But all are dealing with the emotional tumult of losing a home, and the discomfort and uncertainty that accompany it. 
 Piling in With a Relative
 BEFORE the four DeCicco children crawl into the king-size bed they sleep in with their mother, Jamie, in the bedroom they all share with her cousin Carmen Calderon, they call their father to say goodnight. Mrs. DeCicco and the children -- Elijah, 8, Carmen, 6, Sara, 4, and Mauricio, 3 -- are staying with Ms. Calderon, an art director at a Manhattan design firm who lives in a small town house in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. But Sebastiano DeCicco, Jamie's husband, works in Norwalk, Conn., so to save money on gas he stays with a sister in Bridgeport during the week, reuniting with his family on the weekend.
 Last month, Mrs. DeCicco, 32, was laid off from her $35,000-a-year job managing a hotel business center in Orlando, and the family moved north where Mr. DeCicco, 28, a security guard supervisor for SecurAmerica, could earn $13 an hour instead of $10. The bank that had financed their $85,000 house in 2004, and refinanced it for another $65,000 two years ago, told them that it would not even consider allowing them to sell it for less than its value, Mrs. DeCicco said, until they began missing payments. So the couple abandoned the house last month, and are now two months in arrears. 
 The separation from Mr. DeCicco has been hard on Sara and Mauricio; their father worked nights in Florida and used to stay with them all day while their mother was at work. Sometimes when the children return to the town house after a trip to the grocery store, Mauricio, who has enormous almond-shaped eyes, howls in protest. ''No, Mommy, I want to go to our house,'' Mrs. DeCicco recounted. ''He doesn't quite understand yet.'' For her part, Mrs. DeCicco longs for the privacy she enjoyed in her own home. When her husband visits on weekends, there are six of them in the bed, and seven, including her cousin, in the room. Belongings are stored in a single dresser. 
 Mr. DeCicco's income and his wife's unemployment checks barely cover basic living expenses, she said, but the couple is still paying $200 a month for a storage unit in Wappingers Falls, where they keep most of their possessions. These include a four-piece marble and mahogany bedroom set for which they paid $8,000 after they refinanced their house two years ago. Mrs. DeCicco recently posted an ad at craigslist.org offering the set to any landlord who would accept it in lieu of a security deposit and first month's rent. So far, no one has expressed interest.
 Camped Out With an Ex-Boyfriend
 SITTING on a shabby green couch in her ex-boyfriend's loft-style apartment recently, Jody Crispin, 39, gloomily surveyed the toy- and garbage-strewn rug and coffee table in front of her and explained to a reporter why she has no other place to go. In 2006, after three consecutive years of earning more than $100,000 as an ad salesperson for an automotive Web site, Ms. Crispin bought a two story, 2,000-plus square-foot house, her first real estate purchase, in the Green Run neighborhood of Virginia Beach, for $205,000. The house, for which her monthly payments were $1,650, had bedrooms for each of her sons, Christopher, now 18, and Rush, now 6, and a covered patio where Rush could play outdoors. But almost as soon as she closed on it, Ms. Crispin saw a decrease in her sales commissions. Then in August of that year, after a supervisor reassigned some of her clients to another staff member, she made a decision she came to regret: ''They told me they were giving accounts I made to someone else. I quit.''
 Initially, she set out to become a real estate agent. But three months into her coursework she noticed that the for-sale signs in her neighborhood had been lingering for months, and decided it was not a good time to get into the business. Over the next year and a half she found other jobs with a property management company and at a car dealership, but the salaries never came close to her previous earnings. 
 At first, she said, she kept up with all her bills -- in addition to the mortgage payment, her sons needed three operations within three months -- by drawing on $15,000 she had put away as a safety net before buying her house. On Aug. 15, after she had missed three payments, the bank sold her house in a foreclosure auction, and over Labor Day weekend she and Rush moved in with her ex-boyfriend, Rush's father. The arrangement is especially difficult, she said, because she still has feelings for him, though he is dating someone else and has made it clear that they will never get back together. (He did not return phone messages requesting an interview.) 
 The apartment is a consummate bachelor pad, with a black leather chair, few pictures on the wall and no dining table. With no walls dividing the upstairs bedroom from the downstairs living space, Ms. Crispin can't help but overhear phone conversations. With no bathroom of her own and her vanity table locked up in a storage warehouse with most of her clothes and furniture, the only place for her lighted makeup mirror is on the bedroom floor, where she squats in the morning to apply her makeup. 
 At night, she and Rush sleep together on the full-size bed, while Rush's father sleeps on the couch downstairs. And because the place is so small, Christopher, who graduated from high school in June, stayed with a youth pastor from his church until Saturday, when he began renting a place with friends.
 ''It's amazing, when you have a home, you're thinking about vacations, or who you're going to have over for dinner, or when should you do spring cleaning,'' said Ms. Crispin, who wore a necklace with three rings bearing the words ''faith,'' ''hope'' and ''love.'' ''When you don't have a home, you don't think about any of that stuff. All you think about is when I'm going to have a home again?'' She missed two days of work last week because she was too emotionally distraught to face colleagues, and is now worried about losing her job.
 On Friday, her ex-boyfriend asked her to move out, but she has saved only $130 toward renting her own place. So she posted a flier at Starbucks offering her big screen television for sale, and, without a destination, began packing her van. 
 In the Landlord's Place
 TWO years ago Tim and Lindsey Knopf felt as if things were going so well that they refinanced their 1,800-square-foot house in Palmetto, Fla., borrowing about $110,000 on top of their $169,000 mortgage to pay off bills and install a backyard pool. ''I was making plenty of money,'' said Mr. Knopf, who was working as a service supervisor at a local cable company. ''I was able to pay all my bills.'' Then, in 2006, his position was eliminated. ''Later, they actually offered me a lesser one, making less than half of what I was making.'' 
 After nearly a year of lobbying their lender to accept a loss, the couple was able to arrange a short sale, allowing them to walk away without the taint of foreclosure on their credit histories. In December, the house sold for $214,000, which was $25,000 more than the Knopfs paid for it in 2004, but $65,000 less than what they owed after refinancing. 
 They found a rental right away, but moving during the holiday season was hard, said Mr. Knopf, 33. It was even harder for their daughter, Ashton, 12, and son, Chase, 9. ''I grew up in a house where Christmas was always special for us, and I always tried to make it special for my kids,'' he said. ''We were in the rental for a week before Christmas. So we got a tree and put up some small decorations, but nothing major. It wasn't like normal.'' 
 And even though they have been in the rental for nearly a year, Mrs. Knopf, 30, says she has not bothered with curtains. ''It's not our home. It doesn't feel -- it's not my home,'' she said. ''It's always the landlord's home. Within three years the landlord wants this house on the market, or sold. So we only have three years, at most.''
 Taking Tenants, Just to Get By
 IT has a been several years, and several real estate transactions, since Kianoush Etemadi, 57, and her daughter, Paris, 16, had a home of their own. Ms. Etemadi, who grew up in Iran, owned a house in Rockville, Md., until 2005, but sold it after deciding she could save money by moving into the Bethesda home of her younger sister, Azar. In 2006, with the Bethesda real estate market booming, the sisters decided to put an addition on that house, an 800-square-foot rambler with a kitchenette, for which Azar took out a $200,000 loan; during construction, the three would live nearby in yet another house, which Ms. Etemadi bought the same year, planning to flip it, for $505,000 with no money down. 
 By 2007, however, the sisters were overextended and the market had slowed. They did not make payments for three months on Azar's mortgage (they say they were told that payments were not required during the construction process), and the bank started threatening foreclosure. Kianoush, who had been struggling to keep up with the $4,700 mortgage payments for the new, temporary house, now had to begin helping her sister with her payments -- especially after Azar was laid off from her job working with special-needs children. Kianoush began working as a real estate agent. They tried for six months to sell either house, but couldn't get even a single offer. In August, the family moved back to Azar's house, and Kianoush focused on saving it from foreclosure. ''I used my savings, I got help from friends, I sold all my jewelry,'' she said.
 Meanwhile, she stopped making payments on the house she had planned to flip, and soon received a notice of impending foreclosure from her mortgage lender. Last month, she was told that the house would be auctioned on Oct. 15, but, she said, her lawyer negotiated a delay.
 Now, she and her daughter live not only with Azar, who is 51, but with three roommates that they took in to cover costs. The close quarters are particularly hard on Paris, who likes to have friends over. ''When I remind her that somebody is sleeping in the other room or in the basement, she gets upset,'' Ms. Etemadi said. ''She says, This is my house! This is our house! Why shouldn't I have fun on Friday night?'' 
 Ms. Etemadi, who took a second job as a seamstress at Bloomingdale's last December, knows she is unlikely to have her own home again. And she doesn't hide this fact from Paris. ''She always tells me, Mommy, when we can have our own place? I tell her, look, I don't have any education and I don't have very good job to have my own place. It's better you try to go to college and get a better education and try to have better job than I do and then you can have your own place. That's all I can tell her.''
 When Debt Rises and Income Shrinks
 ALTHOUGH they lost their three-story tract house in Newbury Park, Calif., to foreclosure in May, Mike and Kristin Bertrand, both 36, describe themselves as lucky. For nearly a year before it happened, they lived in near-constant panic. Mr. Bertrand, an Internet marketer, had been laid off twice in two years, and though he found new jobs relatively quickly, each one paid less than the last. When their income had seemed stable, they had twice refinanced both a first and a second mortgage, increasing their debt from $370,000 to $668,000, and their monthly payments to $4,000 a month. They spent every spare minute, they said, searching for ways to increase their income and trying to persuade their lender to put them on a more manageable payment plan. 
 Then, in February, Mr. Bertrand lost his most recent job. He began feeling desperate and even contemplated suicide. But after an investor who had considered buying their house offered to rent them another one in nearby Thousand Oaks, Mr. Bertrand said he felt renewed. The family moved there in May after selling most of their belongings online and at garage sales. 
 ''I was just so happy to get away and get this behind me,'' he said. ''When we signed the lease for the rental and I was writing out the check, I told the landlord, you have no idea how good this feels,'' Mr. Bertrand said. He said it was a relief to know ''no one's going to be kicking me out. It was a huge weight lifted off our shoulders.'' 
 Mrs. Bertrand felt the same way, although some days she is consumed by guilt over the foreclosure. ''I made a commitment to make the payments and all of a sudden, no matter how hard I tried, no matter what we did, we couldn't. Then to look at your kids and say: 'You know what? Mom and Dad failed.' It's overwhelming.'' 
 To help them deal with their emotions, the couple in April started Moving Forward, a foreclosure support group (wearemovingforward.org), which has attracted as many as 40 people to its meetings every other week and thousands of visitors from around the country to its Web site. 
 In April Mr. Bertrand began focusing full time on the e-commerce consulting he had done occasionally in the past, and for the last few months the family has comfortably managed the $2,100 monthly rent.
 On Friday, however, Mr. Bertrand found out that his current consulting contract would not be renewed, and some of the feelings of anxiety have returned. ''I think there's part of us that still thinks we could lose this at any time, too,'' Mrs. Bertrand said. ''Every month we write the check and say, O.K., we've got another month here. But that could be it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DISPLACED: Inability to make mortgage payments is driving families to make difficult choices. Sebastiano and Jamie DeCicco, above, live mostly apart: she and their children, from left, Elijah, Carmen, Mauricio and Sara, are with a cousin while he stays near work. Mike and Kristin Bertrand, left, are renting.(PHOTOGRAPH J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FULL HOUSE: The DeCiccos in the bedroom that they share with a cousin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MANSFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAKING ROOM: After overextending, Azar Etemadi, left, her sister Kianoush, right, and Kianoush's daughter have taken in three roommates.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HOME LESSON: Kristin Bertrand, here with her children, McKaylee and Taylor, feels guilty over the foreclosure that the family has faced.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NOT THE SAME: Tom and Lindsey Knopf, with their children, Ashton and Chase, in the rental that they moved into after the short sale of their house. Mrs. Knopf hasn't bothered with curtains, saying that the new place doesn't feel like home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MOVING ON?: Jody Crispin lost her place in August and moved in with an ex-boyfriend, only to be told recently that she had to leave.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY C. KNAPP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (65%); ATHENS, GA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



922 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Finding New Energy by Detouring From the Fast Track

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH POPE

 BODY:
TAKING off for an extended period can be a rare opportunity to recharge, recalibrate the life-work equation or reinvent yourself. And whether that break is paid for by an employer, supported by a grant from a foundation or financed by personal savings, many people are turning to timeouts to figure out their next steps.
 Only about 18 percent of American companies offer paid or unpaid leaves, and most leaves, unsurprisingly, are in the unpaid camp, according to Steve Miranda, chief human resource officer for the Society for Human Resource Management, a trade association. The practice is most common in government, higher education and among nonprofits, he added.
 One of the more generous employer plans is at Hewitt Associates, a human resources consulting company based in Lincolnshire, Ill., which offers bonus vacation weeks to employees every five years in addition to accrued time off, said Andres Tapia, the chief diversity officer. 
 ''People stay around here a long time,'' said Mr. Tapia, who took a six-week sabbatical last summer to write a book and relax with his family. ''A sabbatical is a great way to help them recharge and celebrate five years of service.'' 
 Flexible programs and schedules could become a popular, affordable option for companies if current economic conditions persist, he added. ''It started with working moms, expanded to working dads, then people near retirement and now the millennials who want time off to do community service,'' he said, referring to 20-something workers. ''The one commodity we all crave is time.''
 While formal sabbaticals like Hewitt's are rare in the corporate world, retirees often take a ''gap year'' to travel, visit grandchildren, volunteer or just clean out closets before returning to work. A 2006 Putnam Investments study found that one-third of newly retired people return to work after 18 months, often to jobs requiring less skill and education.
 Mid- to late-career employees may dream of an extended break, but there are risks to taking one, and perhaps even in inquiring about the possibility.
 With employers shedding jobs, there might not be a seat to return to, Mr. Miranda said. Those in the top 10 percent of an industry will always be in demand, he said, but those rounding out the top 50 percent might reconsider that round-the-world trip of self-discovery. ''An employer may look at you afterwards and say, 'Hey, that guy just bailed out when the going got tough,' '' he said.
 CATHERINE A. ALLEN
 Two years ago, Catherine A. Allen, 62, of Santa Fe, N.M., was on leave from her financial consulting company to become chief executive of BITS, a Washington nonprofit consortium of the nation's 100 largest financial institutions. At a retreat in Puerto Rico for female executives, she joined a roundtable where the talk turned to sabbaticals. ''One woman had just taken a sabbatical, another was ready to and I really needed one,'' Ms. Allen said. 
 A year later, she and three of her tablemates had tailored extended leaves of absence. Last year, before returning to her company, the Santa Fe Group, Ms. Allen spent eight months visiting friends and family, joining nonprofit boards, campaigning for Gov. Bill Richardson and working on a book project about the sabbatical experience.
 She also fulfilled a dream of living abroad, spending a month in France. ''I never had time before to see friends, do pro-bono work, or immerse myself in another language and culture,'' she said.
 ''You don't have to be wealthy to do this,'' she said. ''You can save up all your vacation time, rent your house or take a paid job, like travel companion to an elderly person.'' 
 Although she returned to her company in another capacity and earns less money, she still devotes one day a week to philanthropy and lives abroad for a month every year. ''A sabbatical is a huge revelation,'' Ms. Allen said. ''It teaches you to prioritize, delegate and figure out what's really important to you.''
 KENNETH SCHORR
 At the start of a four-month sabbatical last summer, the first thing Kenneth Schorr of Charlotte, N.C., did was erase his office e-mail address from his home computer. ''And I haven't looked at it once since then,'' said Mr. Schorr, 56, the executive director of Legal Services of Southern Piedmont, a nonprofit legal aid group. 
 After 20 years as director, Mr. Schorr was worn out. His sabbatical was underwritten by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, a nonprofit in Winston-Salem, N.C., that provides financial support to nonprofit leaders for three- to six-month leaves to focus on personal needs. 
 In addition to tackling a long list of home repairs, Mr. Schorr spent much of his time with family -- daily visits with his aging parents, a weeklong family vacation in Massachusetts and three weeks in Manhattan with his sister and his daughter.
 ''My sister was astonished at how exhausted I was,'' he said. ''At first I just slept on her futon, went for a run in Central Park and dropped by a museum before having dinner with my daughter.'' 
 The typical sabbatical participant needs six weeks just to decompress and learn to sleep again, said Claire Peeps, executive director of the Durfee Foundation, which pays for extended leaves for nonprofit directors in Los Angeles County. Complete disconnection from the office is critical, she added, and the foundation writes such conditions into recipients' contracts. 
 ''No phone, no e-mail, no gala fund-raiser appearances or slipping into the office at night to check the inbox,'' she said. 
 Back in the office, Mr. Schorr hopes to keep a saner schedule but is realistic about the challenge of litigating cases, finding sufficient financing and running a small agency.
 ''At least I've rebuilt relationships with my wife, parents and kids, so I have family strength in the bank to draw on,'' he said.
 DIANA MEINHOLD
 Six years ago, when Diana Meinhold agreed to be the guardian of an old friend with Alzheimer's, she never realized her caregiver role would change her career path.
 ''For the last few years, my job challenged my brain, but not my heart,'' said Ms. Meinhold, 58, of Costa Mesa, Calif., then a vice president at the Automobile Club of Southern California. ''But I got great pleasure figuring out the health care system and providing the highest level of care for my friend.''
 Working with an executive coach, she realized she would be happier applying her management and training skills to the assisted-living field, particularly dementia care.
 The Automobile Club had no sabbatical policy, so she resigned in February. As she spent months exploring options, she relied on her savings and a few short-term consulting jobs.
 The first few months were emotionally difficult -- not an unusual reaction to such a major transition for a self-confessed Type-A personality.
 ''At first you're euphoric about having no structure, then you feel the loss of identity,'' Ms. Meinhold said. ''I didn't realize how much I had invested in the title of vice president.''
 She started exercising, reconnecting with friends, working part-time for the Alzheimer's Association and earning a certification for management positions in the assisted-living field. 
 After several months of job hunting, she recently took a position with Dakim, makers of brain fitness software that focuses on improving adult cognitive function. She hopes the job will lead to her ultimate goal: to be executive director of an assisted-living facility.
 ''It's been the most wonderful time of my life,'' she said. ''I'm healthier than I've ever been, and I'm excited about this new direction. I have never regretted it for one second since I walked away from my job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INTERMISSION: Catherine A. Allen, top right, wrote a book on sabbaticals with, from left, Jaye Smith, Rita Foley and Nancy J. Bearg. Diana Meinhold, far left, found a new calling when she took a break between jobs, and Kenneth Schorr, left, tackled home repairs and reconnected with his family on sabbatical.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JILL CONNELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY C.J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); MEN (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); WOMEN (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); RANKINGS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



923 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Combating The Gloom? Child's Play

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
NOT a 100-point drop in the Dow goes by these days without someone asking what a deep recession portends for fashion. Will hemlines, too, be dropping? Will we all be wearing oak barrels on suspenders for spring? 
 The idea of fashion as a means of escapism seems to have gone out the window, leaving designers to cope with the consumer gloom in the only way they know -- that is, by channeling the mind-set of their inner children. It may be just a coincidence, but children's books and a color palette by Crayola have emerged as a pop cultural theme in art and fashion with surprising alacrity, as if in anticipation of a need for more simplistic comforts. But I regress.
 Stella McCartney, for example, showed her spring collection against a backdrop created by the British artists Dinos and Jake Chapman to look like a children's coloring book, using double-life-size fuzzy felt shapes. Antonio Marras of Kenzo said his collection was inspired by Alice in Wonderland, and built a stage of giant Victorian books that dwarfed his models. (Not that the clothes from either designer were especially juvenile, not with sheer blouses on display, but the framing ideas, at least, had similarly innocent origins.)
 One could argue that the timing is a tad curious, given that ''Wall Stories: Children's Wallpaper and Books,'' an exhibition that opened this month at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, explains that the mass growth of children's literature and decor can be traced to the Industrial Revolution, which helped create a wealthier middle class that could afford more luxuries. But that would require thinking too hard instead of looking at the pretty pictures.
 Watching the crowds outside a show at the New York University Washington Square Windows gallery, where the artist Sloane Tanen had installed images of comical chenille chicks from her adorably demented picture books, the appeal was clearly not lost on grown-ups. (One showed a pink chick with $135 professional highlights and carrying a $240 Juicy Couture handbag.)
 A more practical (read: affordable) design with naif appeal will be available beginning Nov. 1 at Old Navy, which plans to introduce toys, coloring books and T-shirts depicting the stylized wildlife illustrations of the late artist Charley Harper. T-shirts showing Bird, Dog or Frog start at $12.50.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TALL TALES: The Kenzo spring show, inspired by Alice in Wonderland.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KARL PROUSE/CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); DOGS (62%)

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



924 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 798 words

PERSON: Pat Kavanagh 

HEADLINE: Pat Kavanagh, Literary Agent, Dies at 68

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Pat Kavanagh, a British literary agent whose hauteur, business acumen and abiding aura of mystery kept her distinguished string of writers and publishers fascinated, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 68. The cause was a brain tumor, said a spokesman for United Agents, the literary agency where she worked.
 For nearly 40 years Ms. Kavanagh played a leading role in the London literary world, in part because of her marriage to the novelist Julian Barnes, more pertinently because of a client roster that included Ruth Rendell, William Trevor and Joanna Trollope and not least by virtue of her personal style. 
 ''She was glamorous, gorgeous and brilliant, but cutting if she thought you were less than the best,'' said Robert Weil, the executive editor of W. W. Norton.
 ''She didn't make it easy,'' said Zoe Pagnamenta, a British agent in New York who has worked with many of Ms. Kavanagh's writers. ''You had to earn her respect and trust and friendship, which, when you did, made it all the more valuable. You couldn't get away with anything, like pretending you liked something -- she'd see right through it.''
 Intensely private, and no fan of the lunches and parties that most agents regard as happy hunting grounds, she found herself in the spotlight in 1995, when one of her most celebrated clients, Martin Amis, left her for the rival agent Andrew Wylie in pursuit of a mammoth advance for his novel ''The Information.'' The ensuing row, in which Mr. Barnes angrily ended his long friendship with Mr. Amis, was a feast for the British press.
 Patricia Olive Kavanagh was born in Durban, South Africa, where her father was a journalist. (The ballet critic Julie Kavanagh is a half-sister.) She studied at the University of Cape Town but set her sights on becoming an actress and performed briefly with a touring company. After arriving in Britain in 1964, she did appear in an uncredited, nonspeaking role in the film version of Dylan Thomas's ''Under Milk Wood,'' but this turned out to be the high point of a noncareer that she had already abandoned.
 ''I never got paid, but I did get to snog Richard Burton,'' she later said.
 While working as a copywriter for the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency, she answered an ad offering employment as literary agent and found herself in the presence of A. D. Peters, a legendary agent who showed her the ropes. It was Peters, she said, who taught her the value of silence as a negotiating tool and put her to work selling serial and newspaper rights for authors in the company's illustrious stable. Her early clients included Arthur Koestler, Rebecca West, Tom Wolfe and S. J. Perelman. 
 She developed a reputation for good taste, sound judgment, few words and careful management of her clients' careers, as well as a stylishly intimidating manner. 
 ''She was never one to undersell anything, and she was always on your case, but there was always the velvet glove,'' said Sonny Mehta, the chairman and chief executive of Alfred A. Knopf.
 She could be as tough with her authors as she was with publishers, refusing to varnish harsh truths or indulge writerly fantasies that ignored the economics of the business. At her death, her long list of clients included Clive James, Margaret Drabble, Robert Harris and the British poet laureate Andrew Motion.
 Behind the patrician cheekbones and the formidable reserve lurked a wicked sense of humor. ''I would sometimes fax her a New Yorker cartoon I thought would amuse her,'' Ms. Pagnamenta said. ''She would e-mail back, saying, 'Very droll, Zoe. Hollow laugh ensues.' '' 
 Wit was not the only surprise up her sleeve. In the 1980s she left Mr. Barnes to embark on an affair with Jeanette Winterson, the author of ''Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit.'' She later returned to her husband, who survives her. The affair was fictionalized by Ms. Winterson in the novel ''Written on the Body'' (1992).
 In 2001, Peters, Fraser & Dunlop, as the A. D. Peters agency had become after a 1988 merger, was bought by a sports marketing company, CSS Stellar. Along with several other disgruntled agents, Ms. Kavanagh left the company last September to form a new agency, United Agents. All her clients left with her. 
 ''I doubt if any one of them hesitated, any more than I did,'' Clive James wrote in The Guardian of London.
 Ms. Kavanagh continued to cultivate new writers to the end, signing Ben Goldacre, who writes the Bad Science column for The Guardian, and Jane Borodale, whose first novel, ''The Book of Fires,'' she sold this summer to HarperCollins.
 ''She was fantastically efficient and just the person you wanted to have represent you,'' said Robert Harris, the author of ''Pompeii.'' ''There was no one quite like her really. And she was exotic, like a bird of paradise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pat Kavanagh (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE TIMES, LONDON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERARY AGENTS (92%); LITERATURE (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); BALLET (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (57%)

COMPANY: JWT (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED KINGDOM (73%); UNITED STATES (71%); SOUTH AFRICA (53%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



925 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds' Steep Fall Sends Investors Fleeing

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
The gilded age of hedge funds is losing its luster. The funds, pools of fast money that defined the era of Wall Street hyper-wealth, are in the throes of an unprecedented shakeout. Even some industry stars are falling back to earth. 
 This unregulated, at times volatile corner of finance -- which is supposed to make money in bull and bear markets -- lost $180 billion during the last three months. Investors, particularly wealthy individuals, are heading for the exits.
 As the stock market plunged again on Wednesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average sinking 514 points, or 5.7 percent, the travails of the $1.7 trillion hedge fund industry loomed large. Some funds dumped stocks in September as their investors fled, and other funds could follow suit, contributing to the market plummet. 
 No one knows how much more hedge funds might have to sell to meet a rush of redemptions. But as the industry's woes deepen, money managers fear hundreds or even thousands of funds could be driven out of business. 
 The implications stretch far beyond Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn., those moneyed redoubts of hedge-fund lords. That is because hedge funds are not just for the rich anymore. In recent years, public pension funds, foundations and endowments poured billions of dollars into these private partnerships. Now, in the midst of one of the deepest bear markets in generations, many of those investments are souring. 
 Granted, hedge funds are not going to disappear. In fact, some are still thriving. Even many of the ones that have stumbled this year are doing better than the mutual fund industry, which has also been hit with withdrawals that have forced their managers to sell.
 But the reversal for the hedge fund industry represents a sea change for Wall Street and its money culture. Since hedge funds burst onto the scene in the 1990s, they have recast not only the rules of finance but also notions of wealth and status. Hedge-fund riches helped inflate the price of everything from modern art to Manhattan real estate. Top managers raked in billions of dollars a year, and managing a fund became the running dream on Wall Street.
 Now, for lesser lights, at least, that dream is fading. 
 ''For the past five or six years, it seemed anybody could go to their computer and print up a business card and say they were in the hedge fund business, and raise a pot of money,'' said Richard H. Moore, the treasurer of North Carolina, which invests workers' pension money in hedge funds. ''That's going to be gone forever.''
 As are some hedge funds. For the first time, the industry is shrinking. Worldwide, the number of these funds dropped by 217 during the last three months, to 10,016, according to Hedge Fund Research. 
 Even some of the industry's most well-regarded managers are starting to retrench. Richard Perry, who until now had not had a down year for his flagship fund in more than a decade, has laid off some employees. Mr. Perry, who began his career at Goldman Sachs, is moving away from stock-picking to focus on the troubled credit markets.
 Three other hedge fund highfliers -- Kenneth C. Griffin, Daniel S. Loeb and Philip Falcone -- have suffered double-digit losses through the end of September. 
 Steven A. Cohen, the secretive chief of a fund called SAC Capital, has put much of the money in his funds into cash, reducing trading by some of his workers.
 Many hedge fund investors, particularly the wealthy individuals, are flabbergasted by their losses this year. The average fund was down 17.6 percent through Tuesday, according to Hedge Fund Research. 
 ''You're seeing a lot of shock, a lot of inaction, a lot of reassessment of where their allocations are and what to do going forward,'' said Patrick Welton, chief executive of the Welton Investment Corporation, whose fund is up double-digits this year. 
 Many investors, Mr. Welton said, had hoped hedge funds would protect them from a steep decline in the broader market. But in many cases, that has not happened.
 Now Wall Street is buzzing about how much money could be pulled out of hedge funds -- and which funds might bear the brunt of the redemptions. 
 Funds have set aside billions of dollars in cash to prepare for withdrawals, and many prominent funds require their investors to leave their money in the funds for years. That could help relieve some of the pressure. 
 But because hedge funds are largely unregulated, they do not publicly disclose the identity of their investors or whether they have received requests for withdrawals. While it might make sense to pull money out of poorly performing funds, investors might also exit funds that are doing well to offset losses elsewhere. 
 Institutions -- pension funds, endowments and the like -- pushed into hedge funds after the Nasdaq stock market bust at the turn of the century. Many hedge funds had prospered as technology stocks crashed, leading these investors to believe they would in the future. 
 In Massachusetts, for instance, Norfolk County broached the issue with the state's pension oversight commission, said Robert A. Dennis, the investment director of the commission. Mr. Dennis was impressed that hedge funds had fared so much better than the broader stock market. 
 Though Mr. Dennis says he recognizes the risks that come with selecting hedge funds, he thinks they remain a good investment. Next week, the state commission will vote on whether to allow some towns with pension funds below $250 million to invest in hedge funds, a move Mr. Dennis supports. 
 ''Hedge funds are having a bad year, absolutely, but they're still holding up better than stocks,'' Mr. Dennis said. ''Losing less money than another investment is, while not great, it's still something to be at least satisfied with.''
 But now that the days of easy money are over, some fund managers are throwing in the towel. 
 One manager, Andrew Lahde, was blunt about his decision. 
 ''I was in this game for the money,'' Mr. Lahde wrote to his investors recently. He made a fortune betting against the mortgage markets, calling those on the other side of his trades ''idiots.'' 
 ''I have enough of my own wealth to manage,'' Mr. Lahde wrote. He did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
 And what wealth there has been. More than anything else, hedge funds are vehicles for their managers to take a big cut of profits. The lucrative economics of the industry is known as ''two and 20.'' Managers typically collect annual management fees equal to 2 percent of the assets in their funds, and, on top of that, take a 20 percent cut of any profits. Last year, one manager, John Paulson, reportedly took home $3 billion. 
 But with the industry under pressure, those fat fees are being questioned. Mr. Moore and other investors are starting to ask whether hedge funds deserve all that money. Mr. Griffin, who runs Citadel Investment Group in Chicago, plans to offer funds with lower fees.
 More changes could be coming, including increased regulation. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is scheduled to hold a hearing about regulation next month with five hedge fund managers who reportedly made more than $1 billion last year: Mr. Griffin, Mr. Falcone and Mr. Paulson, as well as George Soros and James Simons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Dennis, investment director of the Massachusetts pension oversight commission, still extols the results of hedge funds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The hedge fund run by Daniel S. Loeb lost money this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A21) CHART: The market has % had wild swings almost daily since early September. Daily change in the Dow industrials. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



926 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: British Architect To Redesign City Library

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Norman Foster, the eminent British architect who has made something of a specialty out of inserting contemporary designs into historic buildings, has been selected for a major renovation of the New York Public Library's landmark 1911 main building, on Fifth Avenue between 40th and 42nd Streets.
 Mr. Foster and his London firm, Foster & Partners, are to create a new circulation library in a space below the library's Rose Reading Room and overlooking Bryant Park that now houses seven levels of stacks and a basement. 
 ''It's the greatest project ever,'' Mr. Foster said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. 
 The area, which now measures 1.25 million cubic feet, will be completely reconfigured, with new rooms for children and teenagers and numerous computer work stations. The stacks are to move to an existing three-acre storage area beneath Bryant Park that is also to be renovated. Work is expected to be completed by 2013.
 ''We had to have someone as good as Carrere & Hastings,'' said Paul LeClerc, president of the library, referring to the original architects of the library's Beaux-Arts building, a city and national historic landmark. ''We had to create a second masterpiece.''
 The project, which is expected to cost $250 million, is proceeding despite a steep economic downturn in which the city plans major budget cuts and in which fund-raising is expected to be an enormous challenge.
 The overhaul has been planned in stages, library officials said, so adjustments can be made to the timetable, depending on how the economy fares. ''It doesn't have to be done at once,'' said Marshall Rose, the library's chairman emeritus, who is head of the institution's building committee. ''The way we've phased it, if the world got worse, we could proceed without losing our momentum. We may delay parts of it. But the thing is in motion.''
 The project is part of a $1.2 billion plan to update the entire library system through improvements to branch libraries, a larger endowment and the creation of two new libraries in Upper Manhattan and on Staten Island. 
 For this larger effort, the library has announced a $500 million private fund-raising campaign that has already brought in $300 million, including $100a million gift from a trustee, the Wall Street financier Stephen A. Schwarzman, that was announced in March. The renovated main building will be named after Mr. Schwarzman, as will be noted discreetly on its facade. 
 The library also plans to raise money from the sale of its properties, including the Mid-Manhattan branch, on the east side of Fifth Avenue at 40th Street, which is in negotiations with a buyer, and the Donnell branch in Midtown, which was sold last year to Orient-Express Hotels Ltd. for $59 million. 
 ''I'm very optimistic that we'll be able to do this,'' Mr. LeClerc said. He predicted that the renovated central library would ''be a huge jolt of energy for the city when it's done, the biggest comprehensive library open in the world but also in human history.'' 
 During the selection process, Mr. Foster said he came to understand the New York Public Library's importance as a social nexus and a place to gain access to information. This made him newly appreciate the role his local library had played for him when he was growing up in Levenshulme, a suburb of Manchester, England. In preparation for his renovation proposal, Mr. Foster had a staff member photograph that branch ''to remind myself of the debt I owed.''
 ''If it hadn't been for the library, I probably wouldn't have gone to university,'' he said. ''I discovered a whole world of literature -- great writers -- and also a world of architecture, like the original books of Corbusier.'' 
 ''I remember discovering Frank Lloyd Wright through Henry-Russell Hitchcock,'' he added, referring to the architectural historian.
 Mr. Foster's acclaimed work with prized historic buildings made him a particularly compelling candidate, the library said. He has designed glass-enclosed additions to the Reichstag in Berlin (1999), the British Museum in London (2000) and the Smithsonian American Art Museum and National Portrait Gallery in Washington (2007). 
 This is also not the first time that the architect has tackled a New York City landmark. His 2006 Hearst Tower project on Eighth Avenue at 57th Street in Manhattan involved planting a glass-and-steel tower atop a six-story Art Deco base dating from 1928.
 Because the library is a landmark, its exterior, including its strip windows, will not be altered. ''It will be a building within a building,'' Mr. Rose said. ''We're not going to encroach on the landmark quality.'' 
 While the library did not want a design that would overshadow its historic envelope and had considered architects with a more traditional aesthetic, the trustees wanted to commission a distinctive piece of contemporary architecture. 
 ''This is now 2008, and when this happens, the library building will be 100 years old,'' said Catherine Marron, the library's chairwoman. ''One has to embrace one's time.''
 Starting with about 30 candidates and narrowing the field to 10, the library was particularly impressed by Mr. Foster's efforts, trustees said, declining to name the other architects considered. Mr. Foster or members of his team visited the library 19 times before offering their proposal, Mr. Rose said. They designed elaborate visual presentations and even a model, which library executives declined to describe, saying that it was strictly hypothetical and that a final design was more than a year away.
 ''They did do a knockout proposal,'' Mr. LeClerc said. ''It wasn't, 'This is what you've got to do.' It was something that was indicative of the capacity of the firm to think very, very creatively about how this could be pulled off in a way that was really interesting -- indeed, brilliant.'' 
 The library was also reassured by ''the scale and the power'' of Mr. Foster's firm, with 1,300 employees, Mr. LeClerc said. ''This is a very, very complicated job,'' he added. ''We needed a firm that had a lot of breadth and depth.'' 
 Because the stacks structurally support the reading room, for example, the reading room will have to be braced before the stacks are taken out. Mr. Foster's firm has conducted engineering studies and evaluated the acoustics. Today about 1.2 million people visit the main library annually; when the new circulation library opens, that figure is expected to increase to about 4 million.
 Some are bound to question whether the library can raise the necessary funds, given the current financial crisis. But library officials said they were determined to press on. ''We are committed to this program,'' Ms. Marron said. ''We recognize the world is different than what it was, and it might take a longer time. We're not going to be foolhardy.''
 ''Libraries are needed in times like this,'' she added. ''More people need to borrow books, to get job information -- it's free. So I think everybody strongly believes the library is needed more than ever.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: ORIENT-EXPRESS HOTELS LTD (60%); FOSTER + PARTNERS LTD (57%)

TICKER: OEH (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (60%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



927 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
An article last Thursday about staying fit during the economic crisis, using statistics from American Sports Data, misstated the number of Americans who belong to fitness clubs. The organization estimated that 41.5 million Americans belong to health clubs; it did not say that a third of the 42 million Americans who exercise join such clubs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



928 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Police Release 10 Day Laborers Arrested at Gathering Place in Queens

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Charges against 10 men accused of blocking a sidewalk at a popular Queens gathering place for day laborers will be dismissed after six months if the defendants stay out of trouble, the Queens district attorney's office said on Wednesday. 
 The men, who were arrested on Tuesday on charges of disorderly conduct, were all released from police custody by Wednesday afternoon, and their cases were ''adjourned in contemplation of dismissal,'' said Helen Peterson, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor's office. 
 Police officials said that they had arrested the men, all of them day laborers, after repeated complaints from residents near the intersection of Broadway and 37th Avenue, one of several intersections in Jackson Heights where scores of laborers gather every day hoping to be chosen for work. 
 The police said that they gave the men a chance to disperse and detained those who did not leave the site. But several laborers who witnessed the arrests said that the police officers had given the men no such opportunity and simply asked them for identification before taking them away in two police vans. 
 Advocates for day laborers said that the arrests were highly unusual; the police have generally allowed day laborers to gather on certain street corners around the city in search of employment, a quest that has become increasingly difficult this year as the economy has worsened. 
 But police officials said that their action was a response to neighborhood complaints and did not signal the start of an offensive against day laborers. 
 Immediately after the arrests, day laborers who remained on Jackson Heights street corners expressed fear that the men who were arrested, many of whom were believed to be illegal immigrants, might be deported.
 But police officials said they had not notified federal immigration officials of the suspects' status. The police officials did not respond to repeated requests for an explanation of their policy regarding the notification of federal immigration authorities when they have an illegal immigrant in their custody. 
 Ms. Peterson said that ''as a general rule,'' the Queens district attorney's office did not ask an arrested person about immigration status. But she added, ''In rare cases, however, such as when a defendant has re-entered the country after having been deported, which is a federal crime, we do notify federal immigration authorities.'' 
 This protocol is in keeping with a citywide policy, established by two executive orders, not to inquire or report on the immigration status of city residents who approach the city seeking services, information or help, according to Guillermo Linares, commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs. 
 The orders, known collectively as Don't Ask, Don't Tell, are intended to encourage illegal immigrants' trust in the city's institutions, he said. ''There are half a million New Yorkers who are undocumented and may be fearful of approaching government when they have information,'' Mr. Linares said.
 But he said the orders provided law enforcement officials with some discretion to report a suspect's immigration status to federal officials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (87%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MAYORS (72%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



929 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Correction

 BODY:
An article last Thursday about staying fit during the economic crisis, using statistics from American Sports Data, misstated the number of Americans who belong to fitness clubs. The organization estimated that 41.5 million Americans belong to health clubs; it did not say that a third of the 42 million Americans who exercise join such clubs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



930 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bank Is Cautious In Report On Region

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The financial crisis has been so turbulent that economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York decided not to try to forecast its effects on employment in their latest report on the region's economy.
 Instead, in a midyear report that was released on Wednesday -- several weeks late because of confusion in the markets -- the bank would go no further than to say that fewer jobs would be added this year than in 2007. 
 Many private economists, however, are predicting deep job losses across the region. 
 The report did say that if the financial markets do not calm by next year, the city's financial-services industry could go through a sharper and longer stretch of cutbacks that could spread into other sectors of the economy. 
 As for how many people might lose their jobs, Jason Bram, an author of the report, said, ''We just don't know.'' Indeed, he said that the report was delayed as one market-rattling spasm after another caused the economists ''to keep tweaking it and tweaking it.''
 What is clear, he said, is that the city's economy was in better shape than the nation's through the first eight months of this year, with several sectors, including those that cater to tourists, continuing to grow even as Wall Street was eliminating thousands of jobs. 
 That is a well-worn pattern, Mr. Bram said. 
 In the last few downturns in the region's economy, job losses in financial services preceded cutbacks in other fields, he said.
 ''What's going on now obviously doesn't bode well for the rest of the economy,'' Mr. Bram said, speaking about the report at a conference on the financial crisis that was organized by the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative policy research organization.
 But when pressed on how long and deep the downturn might be, Mr. Bram declined to offer a specific forecast like the one released last week by the office of the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr.
 The comptroller's office revised its estimate of job losses over the next two years to 165,000, from 85,000 just three months earlier.
 Even that number of layoffs would be lower than the losses recorded in the last recession, which began in 2001 and ended in 2003, and much smaller than those suffered in the deeper recession that followed the stock market crash of 1987. 
 Mr. Bram and his colleagues analyzed those downturns and concluded that the current one is more reminiscent of the last recession than the one before.
 That would mean that the region could expect a greater loss of income than of jobs until the profits of financial firms rebound, the report said. 
 The decline in total earnings could even exceed the 27 percent drop recorded during the last recession, it said, highlighting the difficulty local and state governments could face in balancing their budgets.
 The Federal Reserve's economists have tended to be relatively optimistic in their outlooks. Mr. Bram said that in times of crisis, ''often people's assessments of what's ahead tend to be overly negative.''
 James A. Parrott, chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal policy research group, said the cautious tone of the bank's economists might be appropriate, given the latest job data for New York, which do not reflect the broad cutbacks some analysts had been expecting.
 ''There's a lot of anticipation built in,'' Mr. Parrott said. ''But so far there hasn't been that much negative development registered in the numbers.''
 One of the most troubling indicators has been the number of people putting in claims for unemployment benefits in New York. 
 That number has been climbing steadily and, in recent weeks, it has been about 30 percent higher than it was a year ago, Mr. Parrott said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



931 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Putting an I.R.A. to Work in Ventures Beyond Stocks

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
AT a time when many I.R.A. portfolios are being battered by poor stock market returns, it is tempting to look for ways to replenish the coffers. One possibility is to switch to investments not traditionally associated with I.R.A.'s, like real estate and new business ventures.
That strategy worked for David Luchsinger, 59, during a past financial downturn. Mr. Luchsinger had rolled over $600,000 from his 401(k) at AT&T when he retired from the company in 2002. But after bad stock picks by his financial adviser dissipated half of the account in less than two years, he took matters into his own hands. 
He used what was left in the I.R.A. to buy four newly constructed houses, in rapid succession, that had fallen out of escrow -- three in Las Vegas, where Mr. Luchsinger owns a second home.
Through profits from their quick resale, in two years he earned back the money he had lost in the stock market. Since then he has invested in four Las Vegas rental properties, which generate $6,000 of monthly income for his I.R.A.
But while such glowing stories abound, nontraditional investments may encounter legal pitfalls not associated with more conventional retirement assets, like stocks, government bonds, C.D.'s and mutual funds. The most dangerous trap for the unwary is the regulation on self-dealing -- a legal principle that prevents I.R.A. owners from making investments that benefit themselves or certain family members, even indirectly.
You cannot, for example, buy a house with your I.R.A. and live in it, lend money from your I.R.A. to your brother or use your own contracting firm to remodel a dilapidated house bought with your I.R.A. Those who violate this rule, even inadvertently, risk being taxed on the entire account balance.
The first step when investing outside of the usual channels is to set up a self-directed I.R.A., in which the account owner controls the investments, and the custodian takes no blame for any downside risk.
Whatever the investments, account owners cannot legally hold the title to the assets. Large financial institutions, which generally serve as custodians or trustees for the I.R.A. owner, usually stick with stocks, bonds and mutual funds, or their own financial products.
But an industry of about two dozen smaller firms has emerged that will serve as custodians of real estate and a wide range of exotic investments, from chicken manure to cypress tree farms. I.R.A.'s are not allowed to own life insurance, collectibles (like stamps, art or antiques) or stock in small partnerships known as Subchapter S corporations.
Statistics are scarce on what portion of retirement assets are in these accounts, but the dollar value seems to be growing. Pensco Trust Company, founded in 1989 and a pioneer in the field, manages $3.3 billion today, up from $758 million four years ago.
Tom W. Anderson, chief executive of Pensco, which is based in San Francisco, attributes part of that growth to an increasing appetite for real estate, which makes up 50 percent of Pensco's accounts. Most of these are cash deals: If the property is mortgaged, some of the I.R.A.'s income is subject to tax, which partly defeats the purpose of the account.
Many Pensco clients are entrepreneurs who dip into their retirement savings for capital, Mr. Anderson said. To avoid the self-dealing rules, they must structure their companies so they cannot unilaterally decide a management issue, he said.
Richard Harris, 64, a life insurance consultant in Clifton, N.J., invested $70,000 of his I.R.A. in someone else's business -- a bowling alley and bar called the Gutter, which opened a year ago in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. Since the start of 2008, the enterprise has made distributions averaging $3,000 a month to Mr. Harris's I.R.A., and he figures his interest has more than tripled in value.
As with all investments, the more firsthand knowledge you have about both the vehicle and the people behind it, the better, said Thomas Baird, 55, a lawyer with Baird, Crews, Schiller & Whitaker in Temple, Tex., who has more than 50 clients who have set up self-directed I.R.A.'s.
Mr. Baird used $500,000 of his I.R.A. money to buy shares of a bank in Texas, the Independent Bank of Austin, when his clients started it in 2005. He estimates that his investment has more than doubled in value.
Neither Pensco nor the Entrust Group, a competitor based in Reno, Nev., that has 27 franchisees, will recommend specific investments. But both acknowledge that consumers could easily meet deal makers who attend or speak at the seminars the two companies offer.
That's how Louis Bedard, 58, an engineer in Leominster, Mass., linked up with a financial adviser who specializes in alternative investments. Subsequently, he liquidated his entire I.R.A. of nearly $400,000, which had been in mutual funds, and invested it in deals the adviser had put together, making private loans to a contractor who buys distressed houses and renovates them for resale.
Mr. Bedard, who said he has earned a steady 15 percent on these investments for more than a year, did not worry that half his net worth, including his own home, was tied up in today's shaky real estate market.
''There's always risk,'' said Mr. Bedard, who had no previous experience with real estate but who reviewed financial information on the properties before lending money to the developer.
Occasionally, when investments founder, I.R.A. owners blame the custodians of their self-directed I.R.A.'s. Hubert Bromma, chief executive of Entrust Group, which has 50,000 clients, said that typically the company was sued a couple of times a year by clients who said they ''got hoodwinked.'' Though Entrust has won these cases, he said, they are costly to defend.
Ironic as it may seem in today's economic environment, ''self-direction is much harder than putting money in the stock market,'' Mr. Bromma said. Custodians do not vet investments: I.R.A. owners or their financial advisers must perform all the due diligence. ''This is an active, participatory sport,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAR FROM MUTUAL FUNDS: Louis Bedard's I.R.A., which had been in mutual funds, now makes private loans to a contractor who buys and renovates houses, including this one in Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ANOTHER PATH: Richard Harris invested $70,000 of his I.R.A. in a bowling alley and bar in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The enterprise has made distributions averaging $3,000 a month to his I.R.A. since the beginning of the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (62%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (60%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



932 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: A Northern Neighbor Growls, and Azerbaijan Adjusts

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
BAKU, Azerbaijan -- This country has always had tricky geography. To its north is Russia. To its south is Iran. And ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union it has looked west, inviting American companies to develop its oil reserves and embracing NATO.
But since Russia and Georgia fought a short war this summer, its path has narrowed. 
Azerbaijan, a small, oil-rich country on the Caspian Sea, has balanced the interests of Russia and the United States since it won its independence from the Soviet Union. It accepts NATO training but does not openly state an intention to join. American planes can refuel on its territory, but American soldiers cannot be based here.
''Azerbaijan is doing a dance between the West and Russia,'' said Isa Gambar, an Azeri opposition figure. ''Until now, there was an unspoken consensus. Georgia was with the West, Armenia was an outpost of Russia, and Azerbaijan was in the middle.''
But with the war in Georgia, Russia burst back into the region, humiliating Tbilisi and its sponsor, the United States, which issued angry statements but was powerless to stop Russia's advance. It was a sobering sight for former Soviet states, and one that is likely to cause countries like Azerbaijan to recalibrate their policies.
''The chess board has been tilted, and the pieces are shifting into different places,'' said Paul Goble, an American expert on the region, who teaches at the Azerbaijan Diplomatic Academy in Baku, the capital. ''What looked balanced before does not look balanced now.''
A Western official said, referring to Azerbaijan: ''Georgia was very much a wake-up call. This is what the Russians can do and are prepared to do. Georgia events underscored their vulnerability.''
Azerbaijan will be under more pressure from Russia when undertaking energy contracts and pipeline routes that Russia opposes, said one Azeri official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. Officials from Russia's gas monopoly, Gazprom, on a trip here this spring, offered to buy Azerbaijan gas at European prices, rather than at the former reduced rate. That offer, if the Azeris chose to accept it, could sabotage a Western-backed gas pipeline project called Nabucco.
Rasim Musabayov, a political commentator in Baku, said that under the new conditions, many Azeris think that selling gas to Russia is not such a bad idea.
New projects carry political risks, he said, and if Russia ''will pay us a price we agree on for our gas, why build something new?''
''You can't have a foreign policy that goes against your geography,'' he added. ''We have to get along with the Russians and the Iranians.''
After the fall of the Soviet Union, Russia was weak, with a collapsed economy and a scattered, inconsistent foreign policy. Azerbaijan used that to its advantage. Now Russia is stronger and speaks in one voice, and Azerbaijan has to be more careful in its relations with its big neighbor.
Georgia is now so hostile to Russia that working with it as a partner in the region is increasingly difficult, said Borut Grgic, chairman of the Institute for Strategic Studies in Ljubljana, Slovenia, an expert on Caspian energy infrastructure.
''Azerbaijan will never seek E.U.-NATO integration at the expense of functional and working relations with Russia,'' he said. The Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, he said, ''is making this balance difficult to sustain.''
At no point in the crisis did Azerbaijan take a position that would have made Moscow bristle. When the fighting began, Azerbaijan appealed to Russia, asking it to preserve its infrastructure in Georgia -- a port, an oil terminal and a pipeline. Moscow agreed, according to Azerbaijan's foreign minister, Elmar Mammadyarov.
Azerbaijan helped European diplomats enter Georgia while it was under attack, but when the leaders of Ukraine, the Baltics and Poland traveled to Tbilisi to express solidarity with the Georgians, the Azeri president, Ilham Aliyev, did not make the trip. And after Vice President Dick Cheney visited Baku in September, Mr. Aliyev flew immediately to Moscow for talks with the Russians.
But the issue closest to this country's heart is that of Nagorno-Karabakh, an area in its southwest where Armenian separatists formed an independent enclave in the 1990s. For years, Azerbaijan has tried, through international mediation, to reclaim the territory and allow Azeri refugees who fled to return.
Since the war this summer, the Russians seem to have grabbed the initiative. President Dmitri A. Medvedev, on a trip to Yerevan, Armenia, this week, said Russia was pushing for a meeting between the Azeri and Armenian presidents.
''I hope such a meeting will take place in Russia,'' he said, Reuters reported.
Russia has traditionally backed the Armenians, but times are changing.
''One of the positive effects of the Georgian crisis is that the Kremlin will try to show that they are not crazy guys,'' an Azeri official said. ''That they can be good neighbors, too.''
The Russian attitude toward Azerbaijan, one Azeri official said, was that ''the U.S. has come to your country and is plundering your natural resources, but not giving you any support. Why not go with us instead?''
Mr. Cheney, on his visit to Baku, also pledged to redouble efforts, causing some Azeris to remark ruefully that it took him eight years to make the trip.
Ali Hasanov, an official in Azerbaijan's presidential administration, said concrete progress would win many points in Baku.
''If a big country takes a position, stands on the side of unbroken territory, we will follow its interests,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Resources in Azerbaijan include salt, being harvested above, and oil, which makes the country an important strategic point.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS)
 President Ilham Aliyev, shown on an election poster, has tried to invite Western investment without angering Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI ILNITSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) MAP: Vice President Dick Cheney visited Baku in September. Map shows Baku. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (62%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AZERBAIJAN (95%); GEORGIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



933 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Lack of Respect for Tech Giants

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Investors worried about the economic downturn have sold technology stocks almost indiscriminately. They haven't given leading companies like Microsoft, Apple or Google enough credit for their conservative balance sheets, which make their stocks look downright cheap.
 They're hardly sure bets. Microsoft, Intel and Cisco depend on investment by businesses. Tight credit and pessimism about the economy mean fewer sales of software programs, chips and Internet routers. Google could suffer from slowing advertising revenue growth. 
 And it's not yet clear whether strapped consumers will view Apple's snazzy computers and iPhone as necessities. Also, all five companies sell a lot overseas, so the strengthening dollar will hurt earnings. 
 Investors seem to have taken these problems -- and more -- into account. Over the last year, the Philadelphia semiconductor index, a widely used proxy for the sector, has fallen by 52 percent. That's 13 percentage points more than the overall stock market, and it leaves some of the sector's biggest icons trading near five-year lows.
 This seems crazy, especially when one factors in the cash that the big tech companies have on their balance sheets. Take Apple. Subtract the company's $25 billion in cash from its market capitalization, and investors are effectively valuing its core operating business at $60 billion. 
 Since Apple is expected to earn $5.2 billion next year, the company's current share price implies a valuation of less than 12 times its earnings. That looks cheap for a company where sales of the latest product, the iPhone, grew sixfold over the last 12 months. Even if Apple's earnings don't grow at all next year, today's price values the stock at only 13 times earnings. 
 True, all this implies that the cash on tech company balance sheets belongs to shareholders. It does, of course. Yet that hasn't stopped many companies in the past from wasting it on value-destructive acquisitions or feathering the nests of employees through huge stock option grants. But if tech bosses really want to show how undervalued they are, they should give the cash back to shareholders, who could use the money right about now. 
 Argentina's Mistake 
 The effort by President Cristina Kirchner of Argentina effort to seize the country's private pensions highlights the insecurity of private property in Argentina and is a major impediment to effective economic reform.
 Argentina's private pension system was inaugurated in 1994, when the country was a leading adherent of so-called Washington Consensus economic reforms, which included the privatization and proper funding of pension obligations. The system survived the nation's banking and economic crises in 2001 and 2002, and managed to build assets at one point of over $40 billion, while maintaining good relations with politicians by investing over half its funds in government bonds. 
 Today, the fund is worth $30 billion and has $5 billion in annual cash flow. With commodity prices dropping, global liquidity evaporating and Argentina still blocked from major international borrowing because of painful memories of its 2003 default, those assets have proved irresistible to the government facing a $10 billion budget gap. 
 Argentina has repeatedly confiscated the savings of its middle class, most recently in 2002 when it forcibly converted dollar savings in the banking system into pesos. To guard against similar moves, its middle class has since moved most of its savings offshore.
 That makes funds unavailable to finance domestic small businesses, damaging the economy's long-term growth potential. The pension system, which trapped some savings within the domestic economy, was a second-best solution. But now it is at risk. 
 The insecurity of private property in Argentina explains why the government's efforts at economic reform have long proved ineffective. Market mechanisms are of little value if citizens don't believe they're permanent. In spite of its abundant natural resources and modest population density, Argentina's economic output per capita is today not much higher than it was in 1950, an appalling performance.
 Argentina is a democracy, so its legislature may do the right thing and reject Mrs. Kirchner's proposed seizure. Only by such constitutional barriers against looting can property be preserved and the country's living standards improve. The stakes are high for Argentina's economy.
 ROBERT CYRAN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers in Buenos Aires on Tuesday protested the Argentine government's seizure of the nation's private pensions, which are valued at $30 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCOS BRINDICCI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); BONDS (74%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); US DOLLAR (69%); PRIVATIZATION (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (56%); SEMICONDUCTORS (54%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); GOOGLE INC (85%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (71%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



934 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: You Can Have Your Benefits And Defer Them, Too

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
SELDOM in life is it possible to change your mind about a major financial decision. With a house purchase, for example, you'll probably lose at least your earnest money or your down payment -- if you don't get sued. And good luck getting the Lexus dealer to redo the deal if your new car proves to be a lemon. 
 But Social Security retirement benefits, which come as a lifetime annuity widely regarded as better and safer than one from any insurance company, are different. Under a longstanding but little-known part of the law, retirees who decide to start collecting benefits are permitted to change their minds and start over, reaping the progressively higher payments brought by deferral until age 70. 
 In other words, you can start collecting at 62, saving and investing that money, and then at age 70 file a withdrawal application and still get the maximum benefits accorded to those who wait to start collecting. All you have to do is repay what you've collected so far (plus any money withheld for Medicare premiums). You can even deduct the repayment or take an income tax credit for taxes you paid on benefits. 
 A hypothetical retired couple, both 70, who began collecting at 62, could raise their standard of living by more than 20 percent, according to calculations by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economist at Boston University. (See his double-dip case study at ESPlanner.com.)
 ''It's like finding free money,'' Professor Kotlikoff said. ''There's millions of people who could take advantage of this.''
 Very few have done so -- only 164 people of full retirement age in the first 10 months of the current government fiscal year -- but the Social Security Administration is bracing for an increase as a result of recent attention by some financial planners and the news media.
 Also, the slumping economy is likely to prompt some retirees with a shrinking nest egg to return to work and decide that regular paychecks will allow them to reset the benefit clock for a later date. Retirees can also repay and start collecting higher benefits immediately.
 ''We're seeing it more often,'' said Mark Lassiter, a Social Security spokesman. ''What is new is the use of it as a financial strategy, but it's still not anything I would consider commonplace.'' He said the agency did not try to discourage the tactic and was interested only in making sure applicants fully understood what they were doing.
 A major risk is that a retiree could die after repaying many tens of thousands of dollars. ''I've heard of cases of people paying $100,000 or more back to do this,'' said Mr. Lassiter. ''The risk that they are taking, of course, is that they walk out the door on the way back home and get hit by a bus.''
 But many financial planners contend that the risk of premature death is less than that of living longer than actuarial tables might suggest, only to run out of money.
 It is also possible that the rules could change, although there is as yet no visible effort to deny retirees the repayment option.
 The Social Security system allows workers to begin collecting reduced benefits at age 62, the option chosen by about half of applicants. Those who wait until full retirement age, now ranging from 66 to 67 for people born since 1942, get some 30 percent higher monthly benefits than they would have at 62; those who wait until 70 get about 60 percent more.
 By actuarial projections, lifetime benefits are about equal, whether you take them early or late. But by waiting to collect a higher benefit, you are acquiring more longevity insurance -- something experts increasingly recommend. 
 According to Professor Kotlikoff, ''The key factor to consider is your maximum, not your expected, length of life. 
 ''You can't count on dying on time,'' he said. ''You have to plan to live to your maximum age for the simple reason that you might.'' 
 Although calculating whether it's worthwhile for you to repay involves many interrelated considerations, the process itself is simple. Just go to the Social Security Web site, ssa.gov, and download Social Security Form 521, Request for Withdrawal of Application. You are asked to give a reason for applying, but approval is almost assured. 
 Another way to maximize Social Security benefits (which are taxed less than retirement account withdrawals) is for couples to use a strategy known as voluntary suspension or file-and-suspend. This recognizes the fact that one spouse's decision to collect benefits also eventually affects the other.
 People usually get benefits based on their own working records or half of their spouses' benefits, whichever is higher.
 For example, a husband who earned considerably more than his wife would be eligible for more than double her benefits. If he starts collecting benefits early, he would reduce his wife's lifetime benefits, as well as his own. But in the past if he delayed, his wife would neither immediately collect benefits nor obtain delayed retirement credits, thereby reducing the value of deferral for many couples.
 Now, under the Senior Citizens' Freedom to Work Act of 2000, if the husband files for benefits but defers collecting them, the wife starts to collect on his employment record while he accrues credits for the delay. 
 Moreover, if he dies first, she gets his benefit -- if higher than her own -- including any cost-of-living adjustments.
 ''This is a wonderful way to protect a spouse from running out of money,'' wrote James Mahaney, a pension consultant, and Peter Carlson, a financial analyst, in a paper on Social Security strategies published by Prudential Retirement and available at Prudential.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Retirement section on Oct. 23, about a little-known part of the Social Security law that allows recipients to withdraw from the program and be reinstated later, gave an incorrect time frame in describing the small number of people who have taken advantage of the law. Only 164 people of full retirement age did so in the first 10 months of the 2008 fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30 -- not in the 2009 fiscal year.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL HOGUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); MEDICARE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



935 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Young Workers Must Face Realities of Long-Term Care

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
 MOST of the nation's 78 million baby boomers are watching their parents grow old. While investigating caretaking options for their parents, they should also be thinking about their own old age and planning how they will pay for nursing homes or home health aides for themselves, experts say. With life expectancy steadily rising, the odds are that they will eventually need some help with basic functions, like dressing or walking, maybe for decades. 
 But many boomers are ignoring this prospect. 
 ''You've got your 401(k) to fund, you've got rising health care premiums, gasoline is up, groceries are up, said Randall K. Abbott, a senior consultant in the Boston office of the benefits consulting firm Watson Wyatt. ''Folks tend to look at their wallets and decide it's something they can't think about right now.'' Besides, he said, ''people just don't believe it's going to happen to them.'' 
 If they were to pay attention, they would learn that Medicare does not cover these ongoing, nonmedical services. Medicaid does, but it has tightened its rules, making it harder for middle-income people to qualify. That leaves essentially two choices: pay cash or buy long-term care insurance. 
 Long-term care insurance covers services for people who are unable to perform two or more activities of daily living. It can pay for a nursing home, assisted living facility, home health aide, adult day care and family respite (someone to fill in for a family member who is caring for the insured person).
 And it is not just for the elderly; young people who are paralyzed by car accidents, for instance, often need home care. 
 About seven million of these policies had been sold as of Dec. 31, 2007, with sales increasing slightly over the past year, according to Limra International, a trade group in Windsor, Conn. The choices among these plans can be mind-boggling. Here are some critical issues to consider: 
 DO I REALLY NEED THIS COVERAGE?
 Buying insurance is always a bet on probability. For long-term care, there are four basic questions to ask: 
 If I don't buy insurance, how much money can I afford to spend on this care from my own assets and income? AARP reported that the average cost of a nursing home in the United States last year was about $214 a day; a home health aide was around $19 an hour. 
 Do I have alternatives? Are there friends or relatives who would take care of me -- without charge? 
 What is the likelihood that I will need this care? (This is, admittedly, an uncomfortable question.) Does my family have a history of debilitating chronic illness, like Alzheimer's disease? Or, on the other hand, do I have a heart problem that makes it unlikely that I will live long enough to use the benefit? 
 Can I afford the annual premiums, which can top $2,000? If someone's assets or income is less than $40,000, ''most likely you would be better off relying on Medicaid,'' said Malcolm Cheung, vice president of long-term care product and risk management at the Prudential Insurance Company. 
 WHEN SHOULD I BUY IT? 
 Experts suggest that people buy policies while in their 40s to mid-50s, mainly because premiums rise with age, roughly doubling every 10 years. For a standard policy at New York Life Insurance Company, the annual rate is $1,041 at age 50, $1,941 at age 60 and $3,984 at age 70. 
 If buying at age 40 is good, why not start at 30? ''Your first savings should be to take care of income replacement for retirement,'' said Lawrence Singer, a senior vice president at the Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm in New York City. Another reason: ''The likelihood of having a claim is really remote in the 30s, 40s and 50s,'' he said. 
 But an applicant can also be too old. The cutoff at some major insurers is age 79; New York Life will sign new policies for those up to age 85, but with limited benefits. 
 WHERE CAN I GET IT?
 ''Look for it at the work site first,'' Mr. Singer said. More than one-third of companies now offer long-term care insurance as a benefit, doubling the number from 10 years ago, according to Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm in Lincolnshire, Ill. 
 Employer-based plans have multiple advantages, experts say. Mr. Abbott of Watson Wyatt noted that the group rates are typically 5 to 15 percent lower than retail and ''they often have features and benefits that are more difficult to find in individual plans.'' Moreover, the employer will have vetted the insurance carrier. One more advantage: policy owners will not need medical screening. 
 For those who have to buy coverage on their own, how can they be sure the company will still be around when they need the benefits, 20 years from now? One way is to check its standing with a rating agency like Standard & Poor's or A. M. Best Company. 
 About two dozen states -- including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut -- have extended-coverage ''partnerships'' that coordinate private insurance with Medicaid. Normally, if people still need help after exhausting their insurance benefits, they must pay out of pocket until nearly all of their assets are gone before Medicaid will step in. With these state programs, however, they can qualify for Medicaid while preserving more assets. (The amount they can preserve depends on the policy they select.) 
 HOW MUCH COVERAGE SHOULD I GET? 
 The typical policy is written as a formula -- X dollars per day of Y-type coverage for Z years -- although in practice it is more flexible. ''It's really a pot of dollars,'' said Mr. Cheung of Prudential. If a policy covers $200 a day at a nursing home for five years, and the policyholder ends up in a home that costs only $150, the coverage can continue beyond five years until the policy has paid out $365,000 ($200 times 365 times 5). 
 The advantage of this formula is that it helps people calculate how much coverage to buy by breaking the choice into pieces. 
 How many years of coverage? For nursing homes, five years is a common amount, but people can buy anywhere from two years to unlimited time. Thomas Stinson, president of the long-term care business at Genworth Financial in Richmond, Va., a large insurance provider, says the average nursing home stay is two and a half years. 
 And how much money per day? That is fairly easy to calculate, because AARP and many insurance companies track average costs state by state. Consumers can also look up the facilities they are interested in. The catch: ''You really need to think about where you're going to be retired, and the average cost of nursing homes there,'' rather than the cost where you live now, said Robert Schlau, a senior consultant for Towers Perrin, a benefits consulting firm based in Stamford, Conn. The fees can vary dramatically -- from $33.50 a day in Louisiana to $237 in Alaska, according to AARP. 
 Genworth's typical customer buys four years of coverage at $200 per day. At Prudential, the average is five years at $140 a day. 
 Since today's average cost is sure to grow by the time most buyers actually use the benefit, it is important to add inflation protection. A policyholder can increase coverage every few years, with a corresponding rise in the premium, but most experts prefer policies that automatically raise the benefit over time, even though they charge a higher premium from the start.
 If it is not done automatically, ''our concern is that people often pass on taking the option,'' said Mr. Stinson of Genworth, which sells only the automatic type. There is some dispute as to which approach costs more in the end. 
 WILL I BE ABLE TO GET INSURANCE? 
 Insurers reject 15 to 20 percent of applicants -- mainly those ''likely to need long-term care soon,'' Mr. Cheung said. The most common red flags are obesity, severe diabetes, cancer within the past five years, arthritis, Parkinson's disease and mental cognition problems, along with age limits.
 That's another reason to apply at a younger age. ''Your insurability is exponentially higher,'' Mr. Stinson said. 
 The good news is that a family history of these conditions does not count. ''It's hard to reject somebody based on a predisposition to something they don't personally have,'' said Dennis M. O'Brien, senior vice president for long-term coverage at New York Life. 
 CAN THE COMPANY RAISE MY PREMIUM?
 Yes, with regulatory approval. However, rates must be raised for a whole class of policyholders, not on an individual basis, and it is rare. Genworth said it increased premiums only once in 35 years, while New York Life said that it had never done so. 
 SHOULD BOTH PARTNERS GET COVERAGE? 
 Companies often give a 30 or 40 percent spousal discount on both policies, so it can be cost-effective to buy coverage together. But if a couple can afford only one policy, Mr. Abbott said, ''focus on the one who's more likely to have the need.'' 
 There is an important difference between long-term care insurance and other types. With auto or fire or major medical coverage, the policyholder hopes never actually to use the benefit. With long-term care, the policyholder hopes to live a long healthy life that may end with a brief nursing home stay or some home care, rather than never living long enough to require the care at all. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL HOGUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AGING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HOME HEALTH CARE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (75%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); MEDICAID (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); US 401K PLANS (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); ADULT DAY CARE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



936 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: City Opera Furloughs Some Staff

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The financially troubled New York City Opera furloughed employees for two days last week because it feared it would run out of money to pay them, a spokesman said Wednesday. 
 The staff, except for finance officials, was told in meetings on Oct. 15 to take the days off. They returned to work this week after the company tapped ''board members, private donors and other sources'' for money, said the spokesman, Pascal Nadon.
 ''New York City Opera was worried for a very short period of time that it wouldn't meet the payroll,'' he said. ''City Opera has secured additional funds and also has taken steps to maintain the necessary liquidity to operate the company.'' The squeeze was related to the ''current economic climate,'' he said.
 The furlough was the latest sign of turmoil at the house, coming three weeks after it confirmed it had laid off 11 people. 
 New York City Opera has canceled most of its season while its home, the New York State Theater, undergoes renovations. It will offer only a handful of orchestra concerts and two unstaged performances of Samuel Barber's ''Antony and Cleopatra'' at Carnegie Hall.
 The vastly reduced schedule has eliminated most of its ticket income, and fund-raising was already weakened even before the current economic troubles. Meanwhile, the orchestra and chorus must still receive salaries, although no casts need to be paid. The house has said that its total deficit, including this season and previous gaps, amounts to about $15 million.
 City Opera has no full-time director. Its designated general manager, Gerard Mortier, does not begin his full term until next season. He is finishing his tenure as director of the Paris National Opera and is said to spend about one week each month at the New York company.
 ''The board of New York City Opera appointed Gerard Mortier to bring his artistic vision to N.Y.C. in order to reshape the company,'' Mr. Nadon said in a statement, ''and take it into a bold new direction to ensure its future economic viability.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



937 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Some Who Locked In a Price For Heating Oil Now Wish They Hadn't

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
After the rapid run-up in oil and gas prices over the past two years, many consumers have been happy to see them subside in recent weeks.
 But then there are those who tried to outsmart the market by signing contracts this summer -- when prices peaked -- locking in rates for delivering home heating oil through the winter. They will most likely end up paying more than their neighbors to heat their homes and apartments this winter.
 Barbara Daley, who is 76 and lives on Long Island, signed up in September at $4.22 a gallon. Now, with prices around $3.10, she is looking for a little sympathy. Mrs. Daley said her heating oil company, which she did not want to antagonize by naming, told her it would cost $599 to terminate the contract -- about what she paid to fill up her 250-gallon tank one time last winter. 
 ''They said it might go up to $6, so I locked in a fixed price,'' Mrs. Daley said. ''I've been with this company 30, 35 years. You would think you would get some consideration. I'm not asking for the world.'' 
 There are no accurate figures on how many people across the nation are stuck in unfavorable contracts. But in one indication of how widespread the problem may be locally, the New York Public Interest Research Group, which negotiates with oil companies on behalf of consumers, said 8,000 of the 20,000 members of its buyers group signed contracts this summer to deliver fuel at fixed rates, at prices between $3.80 and $4.20.
 ''Customers who signed fixed contracts have a major problem,'' said Larry Faria of Nypirg's fuel-buyers group. ''They'll be hurting because prices are coming down.''
 The degree of their pain depends on when the contracts were signed. The most acute is for those who signed deals in July, when home heating oil prices peaked at $4.78 a gallon.
 An additional 8,000 of Nypirg's buyers signed deals that cap the maximum price they can pay, but allow them to pay less if prices drop. Given the recent slide in prices, these people have made out better than those who signed fixed-price deals. But in many cases, oil companies have been charging customers in capped-price plans 10 to 20 cents more per gallon than the going rate to protect against a rapid fall in prices in the future. 
 Home heating oil companies say they are being unfairly blamed for circumstances often beyond their control, noting that oil prices are set by large refiners and wholesalers. When customers signed fixed-price contracts this summer, their heating oil companies bought the fuel from wholesalers at a similar price, making it difficult to cut prices now.
 ''You are playing the market, and a contract works both ways,'' said John Maniscalco, the executive vice president of the New York Oil Heating Association. ''If you lock in a fixed price, if the price goes up you're going to feel like a hero. If it goes down and your neighbors are paying less, you'll feel different.'' 
 Mr. Maniscalco, whose group represents 160 companies in New York City, said that many home heating companies did not see profits rise as much as oil prices because they did not pass along all of the increases to their customers. In many cases, he and others in the industry said, companies have been giving customers an extra month or two to pay their bills in the face of the high prices. 
 ''We have to carry our customers and we have to take out credit lines to do it,'' said Mike Coppola, who owns Bell Fuel Oil Company in Brooklyn, which has 700 customers. ''When it goes up, we don't immediately raise prices because we don't want to scare consumers. When there's a downswing, we try to get some of it back.'' 
 But Senator Charles E. Schumer complained that large oil companies have not cut their prices as rapidly as the price of oil has declined on commodity markets, and he has called on the Federal Trade Commission to pressure them to do so.
 ''It's simply baffling,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement. ''When oil prices go up, gas and home heating oil prices go up, but when oil goes down, mysteriously nothing really happens.'' 
 On Wednesday, Andrew J. Spano, the county executive in Westchester, echoed Mr. Schumer's complaint, sending a letter to local heating oil companies asking them to consider their customers' plights. He suggested that they consider, for instance, lowering delivery fees to soften the blow.
 ''Some customers, particularly seniors who were worried that there was no end in sight to the cost of oil, locked in rates over the summer when they were at their peak -- about $4.50 a gallon,'' Mr. Spano wrote. ''These consumers are now locked into sky-high prices, even though much lower-priced heating oil is available.''
 Amid the complaints, more consumers are trying to avoid heating oil altogether by switching to natural gas. Con Edison said that 1,618 single- and multifamily homes in its service territory -- most of New York City and Westchester County -- converted to natural gas from January to September this year, 11 percent more than during the same period in 2007.
 But that conversion costs $5,000 to $7,000, so it can be a long-term investment. Though natural gas can be more convenient -- no furnaces to clean, no deliveries to wait for -- prices have been just as volatile as those of heating oil in recent months.
 It is too late for such an option at Parkchester South Condominium, a group of 116 apartment buildings in the Bronx, whose board voted this summer to sign a fixed-rate contract that runs through the end of 2008.
 ''We're blowing our budget out of the water by a couple of million dollars,'' said Michael Naclerio, the general manager of the condominium, who declined to say how much he was paying. ''In hindsight, it turns out it was the worst decision we could have done.''
 The board has since negotiated a contract for 2009 that is 30 percent lower, a figure that equals the condominium's projected heating oil budget for 2008, Mr. Naclerio said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Coppola, the owner of Bell Fuel Oil Company, fills a customer's tank in Brooklyn. Some oil companies have let customers delay payments since prices rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HEATING OIL BIND: People who signed contracts last spring fearing that the price would continue climbing may be paying a lot more this winter than people without contracts. (Source: New York State Energy Research and Development Authority) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUEL DEALERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



938 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: On the Extinction of Species

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Watching the Numbers and Charting the Losses -- of Species,'' by Verlyn Klinkenborg (Editorial Observer, Oct. 15), is precisely on the mark regarding the urgency and importance of today's plant and animal extinction crisis. And Mr. Klinkenborg's conclusion that an international effort similar to what is happening to address the current global financial crisis will be necessary to protect species prompts a question. 
 What would it cost to stabilize our planet's biological health by protecting species and their natural habitats? An estimated $13 billion a year would be enough to maintain and expand protected areas in the tropics, where the vast majority of plant and animals species are found. 
 The most recent estimate of what we actually do spend on conservation a year is about $6 billion. Of that, most goes toward conservation in the United States and Europe, and only a fraction is spent to protect tropical forests.
 As we approve $700 billion to bail out failing banks, what is happening to financing for conservation? The United States is losing its historic leadership position in international nature conservation, as countries like Germany, Norway, Britain and others have made financial pledges that begin to dwarf United States yearly financing rates to address deforestation and species conservation. 
 With the next administration, the United States has an opportunity to regain that leadership. The huge financial bailout package has been put in place in record time. Meanwhile, the clock is ticking on species, which are the basis of ecosystems that give us fresh air, water and countless other natural resources necessary for human well-being worldwide. 
 Once the world's threatened species are gone, no amount of money can bring them back.
 Russell A. Mittermeier President, Conservation International Arlington, Va., Oct. 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DEFORESTATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



939 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Insurer Of Pensions Has Lost $2 Billion

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The federal agency that guarantees pensions has lost $2.1 billion on its investments so far this year, foreshadowing expected losses among corporate pension funds, state retirement systems and others that provide a financial backstop for an aging population.
 The loss at the agency, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, was magnified by its decision in February to invest more aggressively to narrow its deficit. With unemployment rising and more companies coming under financial pressure, the agency will undoubtedly face more claims from companies that cannot make good on their pension promises.
 The stock portion of the agency's roughly $68 billion investment portfolio fell in value by $2.2 billion through August. Small gains in the fixed-income instruments offset part of the loss. These results do not include the devastating market swings of September. 
 Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who spotted the decline, said it stood as a warning about what could happen to any body of government if officials decided to invest the funds backing up a safety-net program in volatile securities.
 ''There has only been one guarantee in this financial crisis, and that is that Social Security did not lose money in the market,'' said Mr. Miller, the chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor. ''The current market turmoil is proof that we should not subject our basic retirement security to a riverboat gamble.'' 
 The information about the losses came to light as the committee prepared for a hearing on Friday on jobs and the economy. Mr. Miller said he had added to the list of those who would appear the executive director of the agency, Charles E. F. Millard, so that the committee could ask him about the its decision to put more money into equities. He recalled that Mr. Millard had previously told Congress that switching to more stocks would not add risk.
 Mr. Millard said in an e-mail message that the agency's losses were ''well below the losses suffered by most other investors.''
 ''Our investment managers will continue their careful approach as they diversify our portfolio and seek long-term market opportunities,'' he added. 
 A spokesman for the pension guarantor, Jeffrey Speicher, said that the losses should not alarm the workers and retirees counting on the agency for their pensions. ''Participants are no worse off,'' he said. ''We still have plenty of money to meet our commitments.'' 
 The agency maintains its investment pool to pay the pensions of workers and retirees whose companies have gone bankrupt. Some of the money comes from insurance premiums paid by companies that sponsor traditional pension plans; that portion of the pool is invested in Treasury bonds. The other assets are acquired when the agency takes over pension funds. Traditionally, those have been invested heavily in equities and remained in equities at the agency.
 The agency itself has operated at a deficit almost consistently from the time it was created in 1974. Its finances took a particularly severe beating during the bear market at the beginning of this decade, when a series of large steel companies and airlines went bankrupt and sent their pension funds to it as they struggled to reorganize. 
 By 2004, the agency decided it was a mistake to keep its portfolio so heavily in stocks, because they tended to lose value just when stock-laden corporate pension funds were themselves likeliest to fail -- which was precisely when the insurer most needed the money. 
 So the agency announced that it was scaling back on stocks and bolstering its holdings of fixed-income instruments. Fixed-income securities, like bonds, can also swing in value, but they can provide a predictable stream of income that matches the agency's own payout schedule. 
 But as memories of the bear market faded and the leadership of the agency changed, the bond-based strategy lost favor. Stocks are thought to yield more over the long term, and Mr. Millard said he thought they would be a better tool for closing the agency's deficit, which was $14 billion last year.
 Despite the investment loss this year, Mr. Millard said, ''we expect our 2008 deficit will be about $2 billion lower than last year's.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); AGING (89%); INSURANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); BONDS (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%)

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



940 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Even Good News Fails to Cheer the Markets

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM. 
David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The malaise on Wall Street simply will not lift.
 Despite cheaper oil, a stronger dollar and looser credit, stock investors on Wednesday could not shake their fears about the consequences of an economy that many believe is already in a recession. Worries that slowing growth will pummel the corporate sector sent the Dow Jones industrials down more than 500 points for the day.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.1 percent, a decline that in any other financial environment would be considered extraordinary. Instead, it counted only as the worst loss since last Wednesday, when the S.& P. plunged 9 percent. 
 The slump overshadowed a milestone for oil prices, which tumbled to $66.75 a barrel, a 16-month low, and strong gains in the American dollar against foreign currencies.
 In the stock market, the bloodletting began after corporate bellwethers from a range of sectors across the economy -- including Boeing, Merck and Wachovia -- warned of a bleak outlook for the remainder of the year as they reported disappointing earnings for last quarter.
 ''Conserving cash and being cautious is a rational response on the company level,'' said Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman. ''In the aggregate, when every company takes defensive actions like that, it creates a sharp slowing of the overall economy.''
 The stock market has given back all the gains it made since early last week, when governments worldwide took major steps to shore up the global banking system. At its weakest point Wednesday, the Dow was off by nearly 700 points. It finished at 8,519.21, down 514.45 points. The S.& P. index closed at 896.78, its lowest level since April 2003. 
 The Nasdaq composite index finished down about 4.8 percent, despite gains in shares of Apple and Yahoo.
 Oil fell after the Energy Department reported a sharp decline in domestic demand for fuel. Cheaper oil means less pressure on American consumers, but less profits for big energy companies, shares of which were hit hard on Wednesday. Alcoa and Exxon Mobil were the worst performing stocks in the Dow, losing 13.4 percent and 9.7 percent, respectively.
 Anxiety about growth also outweighed continued improvement in the credit markets. The cost at which banks lend to one another, as measured by the closely watched Libor rate, fell for the third consecutive day for three-month and overnight loans. The cost of borrowing commercial paper -- short-term i.o.u.'s used by many businesses -- fell as well, a day after the Federal Reserve introduced an ambitious program to improve the market for short-term debt. Yields on one-month Treasuries rose.
 But in a sign that investors were again seeking the safety of government notes, yields on the benchmark 10-year bill declined to 3.59 percent from 3.74 percent late Tuesday.
 Meanwhile, the dollar strengthened as investors bet that Europe's economy would slow more quickly than that of the United States. The British pound plunged to a five-year low against the American currency after Prime Minister Gordon Brown acknowledged for the first time that his country would tumble into recession, sparking fears that also helped drive the euro to $1.28, a two-year low. That is down sharply from just a month ago, when the euro was at $1.46.
 Expectations that European nations will cut interest rates to stimulate growth has also fueled the sell-off in those currencies.
 The Dow dropped more than 300 points in the first half-hour of trading. The selling accelerated in the final hour of trading, leading some analysts to suggest that hedge funds or other big investment outfits were selling off assets.
 ''Every day there's a chance that this market's moving 5 percent,'' said Randy Cass of First Coverage, a firm that analyzes investment advice offered by brokerage firms. ''And it's not moving based on a dramatic fundamental change from the day before.''
 Wednesday's market jitters began overseas, where stocks fell sharply in Europe and Asia. The FTSE 100 index in London closed down 4.5 percent; stocks on the CAC-40 in Paris were off 5.1 percent; and the DAX in Frankfurt slipped 4.5 percent. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 average fell 6.8 percent. 
 ''The main story is that deleveraging among financial institutions is continuing,'' said Derek Halpenny, senior currency economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London. ''Banks worried about funding are selling assets to reduce their balance sheets.'' 
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 98-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Worried looks abounded Wednesday on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. The Nasdaq alone fell nearly 5 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B5) CHARTS: S&P 500
CRUDE OIL
$1 IN EUROS (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.B1)
THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press: Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); RECESSION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (69%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); AMP (NYSE) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



941 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Urban Fiction, as Graphic as the Street, Finds a Place in Libraries

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
In one book, the hero spirals toward a violent death dealing drugs on the streets of Laurelton, Queens, witnessing, along the way, a baby ripped apart by bullets. In another, a convict plots the seduction of his prison psychotherapist. 
 And then there's Angel, a Versace-clad seductress who shoots her boyfriend in the head during sex, stuffs money from his safe into her Vuitton bags and, as she fondles the cash, experiences a sexual frisson narrated in terms too graphic to reproduce here.
 All these characters, and the novels they populate, are favorites of Shonda Miller, 35, a devoted library-goer who devours a book a day, enforces a daily hour of reading time for her entire family and scours street stands and the Internet for new titles. She also acts as an unofficial guide and field scout for the Queens Library as it builds its collection of a fast-growing genre, written mainly by black authors about black characters and variously known as urban fiction, street lit or gangsta lit. 
 It's not the kind of fare usually associated with librarians. But public libraries from Queens, the highest-circulation public library system in the country, to York County in central Pennsylvania are embracing urban fiction as an exciting, if sometimes controversial, way to draw new people into reading rooms, spread literacy and reflect and explore the interests and concerns of the public they serve. 
 ''We've got people who are reading for the first time. We've got people coming into our building asking for Teri Woods'' -- the creator of Angel -- ''who have never come here before,'' said Lora-Lynn Rice, the director of collections at the Martin Library in York County, which held a symposium on urban fiction during National Library Week in April. ''Why would we not embrace this?''
 Urban fiction's journey from street vendors to library shelves and six-figure book deals is a case of culture bubbling from the bottom up. That is especially true in New York, where the genre, like hip-hop music, was developed by, for and about people in southeast Queens and other mostly black neighborhoods that have struggled with drugs, crime and economic stagnation.
 Writers like Mark Anthony -- who at 35 is Ms. Miller's contemporary and the author of ''Paper Chasers,'' based on his youth in Laurelton -- found themselves being rejected by agents and publishers. So they paid to self-publish their books, with rudimentary designs and cheap bindings, and sold them on 125th Street in Harlem, or on Jamaica Avenue in Queens, around the corner from the borough library's main branch. Soon, a stream of people -- high school students, first-time library users, the library's own staff -- were asking for the books. And the librarians went out on the street to buy them. 
 ''If there's some cultural phenomenon going on out there and it's not in here, we want to know why,'' said Joanne King, a spokeswoman for the Queens Library. 
 As a teenager in Far Rockaway, Queens, where she still lives, Ms. Miller read gritty novels set in urban black neighborhoods of the 1960s and '70s, by Donald Goines and Iceberg Slim. Then there was a dry spell. She made do with Jackie Collins until a new generation of urban fiction sprang up in the late 1990s.
 ''I read what I can relate to,'' she said. ''They're writing about what I've experienced. It's easier than reading about Beverly Hills and Rodeo Drive.''
 Which is not to say Ms. Miller, a mother of four, has ever murdered anyone, worked as a prostitute or been draped in diamonds by a drug-dealing boyfriend. (Her husband of 19 years, an ex-Army man, is a garbage collector.) What she recognizes are the characters' fashions and pleasures (door-knocker earrings, clubbing), their problems (few jobs, drug dealers offering your children fast cash, people you know getting shot or stabbed) and their aspirations (striving for a better life).
 So she has made it her mission to bring more urban fiction into the Queens libraries, which she visits as many as five times a week, checking out books she reads on her subway rides to Manhattan to visit her son Tad, 17, who has been hospitalized for four years with brain damage from a near-drowning.
 Her oldest, Raishon, 19, reads his favorite urban titles aloud to Tad. Some nurses blush at the profanity and sex; others ask to borrow the books.
 ''A lot of people ask me, 'How can you let him read that?' '' she said. ''He lives it every day. This is cotton candy compared to what they hear out there. And it shows him there are consequences to living such a fast life.'' 
 And besides, she said, when she makes her husband and children read every day from 5 to 6 p.m., at home in the Ocean Bay housing project, ''I don't care what they read -- I only care that they read.'' 
 Librarians tend to agree. But many libraries are only now catching up to their public, which has already made urban fiction big business. Writers like Ms. Woods, from Philadelphia, and Vickie Stringer, who writes about her former life as a drug dealer and madam, have started their own publishing companies. 
 Mainstream publishers saw dollar signs and jumped in. St. Martin's Press now publishes authors including Mr. Anthony and the rapper 50 Cent -- another Queens native, born Curtis Jackson -- and a subgenre of black erotica led by the writer Zane. 
 The genre has spawned best-selling authors like Omar Tyree and the rapper Sister Souljah, whose novel ''The Coldest Winter Ever'' has sold a million copies; a long-awaited sequel, ''Midnight,'' is due out Nov. 4. It has also spawned literary feuds: Kwame Teague, the convict whose life story was featured in Ms. Woods's ''Dutch'' and ''Dutch II,'' broke with her to publish the third volume himself.
 And, of course, it has spawned a backlash, which has complicated its reception in libraries. 
 Its street language, graphic sex and violence -- not to mention covers featuring scantily clad models, often brandishing weapons -- are controversial in black literary circles, where critics say it perpetuates stereotypes and lament that it is shelved next to literary writers like Toni Morrison, a Nobel laureate. Mr. Tyree himself has declared that he's not going to write any more of it. 
 ''There are black librarians who hate the genre, because they feel like it's an embarrassment culturally,'' said Vanessa Morris, an assistant teaching professor of library sciences at Drexel University. 
 But she says the genre tells the stories of African-Americans who survived the 1980s drug wars: ''This is about documenting history, or, I should say, collective memory.'' 
 Librarians point out that Harlequin romances, the Bobbsey Twins and even paperbacks were once considered too lowbrow for libraries -- and that Stephen King and Jackie Collins also trade in sex and violence. 
 Ms. Morris credits the genre for a jump in circulation at the Widener Library in North Philadelphia, where she began a book club for teenagers in 2005 and found that three years later, many had expanded their interests to read science fiction and biography.
 At Q-Boro Books -- Mr. Anthony's publishing company, with offices over a Jamaican-Chinese restaurant in Jamaica, Queens -- the library's embrace has been great for business, since libraries buy multiple copies and reorder when they wear out or disappear. The company, which he says has revenues of over $1 million, was recently sold to Urban Books of West Babylon on Long Island. It has already published 100 books.Queen Bee
 At the Far Rockaway library, one of the busiest spots on the neighborhood's faded commercial strip, commuters head to the urban fiction shelf at the end of the workday. 
 The head librarian, Sharon Anderson, who said she grew up on Donald Goines and was now obsessed with spy novels, says that sometimes she recommends something harder: ''If you want sex, dirt and murder, read Shakespeare! We have the CliffsNotes!''
 Urban fiction has influenced a generation of library staffers, too. Down the street at a special library branch for teenagers, Sandra Michele Echols, the librarian, wrote her bachelor's thesis at New York University comparing street lit to slave narratives. 
 Barbara Orlandi, a lifelong Far Rockaway resident who was checking out ''Little Black Girl Lost II,'' said she moved out of the Redfern housing project at age 11 and has not gone back since. But she reads about the dangerous life she remembers on her subway rides to her night shift as an AirTrain dispatcher.
 ''It actually helps you to understand what's going on around you,'' she said, ''instead of walking around blind.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 28, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Wednesday about public libraries' embrace of urban fiction, a genre populated mainly by black authors writing about black characters, misidentified the publishing house whose imprints publish two writers of urban fiction, the rapper 50 Cent and Zane. It is Simon & Schuster, not St. Martin's Press.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the Queens Library in Far Rockaway, Yolanda Degraff files urban fiction, which draws patrons at the end of every workday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Barbara Orlandi, picking a book, says urban fiction speaks to her life and to choices her 14-year-old daughter might be facing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); LIBRARIANS (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); RACE & RACISM (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



942 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
The interior of artist Anado McLauchlin and Richard Schultz's home near San Miguel de Allende, Mexico, is a pinwheel of green, pink and purple. Barely an inch of this home is without color and decoration. Much of it is in mosaics of ceramic and glass. 
 nytimes.com/home
 Opinion
 CAMPAIGN STOPS Fishing for Bass, and Jobs
 On his drive west, Bill Barich reaches Ohio, where the economic outlook is particularly dire.
 nytimes.com/campaignstops
 AUDIO: POINT MAN
 On a Rescue Effort
 In a Times interview, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. discusses taking the initiative and the heat in efforts to shore up the financial system.
 nytimes.com/business
 Bits
 Is 39 the New 28
 At Google?
 Google is promoting its new smartphone on its sparse home page, Miguel Helft writes, boosting the word count above limits set by the company's founders.
 nytimes.com/bits
 ONE POTATO, TWO POTATO
 This week's batch of healthy recipes from Martha Rose Shulman showcases five ways to prepare potatoes, one of the world's most widely eaten vegetables.
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 SLIDESHOW: THE WORLD SERIES
 More photos from Game 1 between the Philadelphia Phillies and the Tampa Bay Rays.
 nytimes.com/sports
 SLIDESHOW: WHAT $150,000 BUYS
 Photos of Sarah Palin's clothing and accessories throughout the presidential campaign.
 nytimes.com/style
 AUDIO: TECH TALK
 Concerns about electronic voting systems; protecting your hearing while listening to an MP3 player; the tech term ''noise-canceling headphones''; and the latest Pew/Internet report on technology and family life.
 nytimes.com/techtalk
 Special Section:
 AUDIO: Retirement
 Four people in their 40s and 50s talk about their retirement in the face of shrinking investments. Also, The Times's Steven Greenhouse discusses how retirement plans have been affected by the financial downturn.
 nytimes.com/business
 Green Inc.
 Energy Ballot Initiatives
 Kate Galbraith discusses the key energy-related ballot initiatives that are being voted on in various states, including California, Missouri and Colorado.
 nytimes.com/greeninc

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BALLOTS (69%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (64%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (56%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (68%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (68%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



943 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Made Profit With Assist From Dollar Menu

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
McDonald's said third-quarter profit rose as consumers stretched by higher food costs bought $1 double cheeseburgers and specialty coffees. 
 Global sales at restaurants open at least 13 months climbed 7.1 percent, better than some analysts had projected, as sales in Europe and Asia outpaced those in the United States. Shares of McDonald's closed down 95 cents, or 1.7 percent, at $54.18 in regular New York trading.
 The restaurant chain has been promoting iced mochas, $1 iced sweet tea and dollar-menu foods, which have been gaining in sales. Consumers worried about their jobs and paying their mortgages have cut back on discretionary spending as the credit crisis threatens to push the global economy into a recession.
 Net income climbed to $1.19 billion, or $1.05 a share, compared with $1.07 billion, or 89 cents, a year earlier, the company said in a statement. Profit exceeded analysts' estimates by 7 cents a share. Sales increased 6.2 percent, to $6.27 billion, from $5.9 billion.
 ''Value, which has always been important, is mission critical today,'' James A. Skinner, the chief executive, said on Wednesday in a conference call with analysts and investors. ''In the United States, there's no doubt that today's environment is challenging for consumers and restaurants.''
 Same-store sales in the United States and Europe fell below estimates. But sales in the Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa region increased 7.8 percent, helped by chicken snack wraps in Australia and exceeding analysts' estimates of a 7.5 percent gain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: JIM SKINNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRALIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



944 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Agency Says Small Businesses Get Close to a Quarter of U.S. Contracts

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Small Business Administration, assessing the government's success in awarding contracts to small businesses, said Wednesday that $83.2 billion went to those companies in the last fiscal year, a record amount. And it said that the government was close to complying with a law requiring that nearly a quarter of federal contracts go to small businesses. 
 But critics quickly responded that the figures failed to reflect the full picture of federal contracting. 
 They argued that small businesses were still not getting their fair share of government contracts. Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine and the ranking minority member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, was among the critics.
 ''As small businesses represent 99 percent of all firms nationwide and will be vital in leading economic recovery effort,'' she said, ''it is crucial that these enterprises receive every job-creating and capital-generating opportunity in the federal contracting marketplace.'' 
 The S.B.A.'s lack of effective oversight, she said, has been ''indefensible.'' Only three of the 24 government agencies met all their contracting goals for five categories of small businesses, including service-disabled veterans and women.
 Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, the New York Democrat who heads the House Small Business Committee, questioned the accuracy of the contracting figures and said, ''Small firms lost out in nearly $4 billion in opportunities.'' 
 The agency's acting administrator, Santanu K. Baruah, who began the job in August, emphasized that the S.B.A. relied mostly on information provided by the agencies like the Defense Department, which actually award the contracts and track them.
 Mr. Baruah noted that the S.B.A. had made an effort to ''scrub the data'' of flawed coding and other problems that have led to large companies being listed as small businesses. The agency adopted new rules, as of July 1, 2007, that require more frequent certification to keep corporate subsidiaries from masquerading as small firms.
 Mr. Baruah conceded that some $5 billion in contracts had been miscoded as having been awarded to small businesses, a figure reported Wednesday in The Washington Post.
 Even so, he noted that ''$5 billion represents a 6 percent error rate,'' a figure which he defended as ''within the realm of reasonable, although that does not mean we should excuse errors.'' 
 The S.B.A.'s statistical scorecard was started last year to measure governmentwide compliance with the Small Business Reauthorization Act. The 1997 law requires the government to award 23 percent of federal contracts to small businesses, which are defined in several ways, including employing fewer than 500 workers. The S.B.A.'s scorecard said 22 percent had been awarded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (93%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); VETERANS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



945 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: CHINA, AN ENGINE OF GROWTH, FACES A GLOBAL SLUMP

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
For three decades, China has fueled its remarkable economic rise by becoming the world's workshop and unleashing a flood of low-priced exports. But faced with a possible global recession and weakening demand for Chinese exports, the question now is whether the ruling Communist Party can prevent the financial crisis from derailing the country's economic miracle. 
 This question is pressing not just for China but also for the rest of the world. American officials and many economists say continued Chinese growth is vital to the global economy as the United States and Europe face severe downturns. 
 Yet to navigate the crisis, many analysts say, China will need to recalibrate its economic model, stoke domestic investment with heavy government spending and promote policies to increase consumer demand in a nation known for high savings rates. 
 The global crisis is also arising at a politically resonant moment for China. This month is the 30th anniversary of the reform policies that first ignited its market-oriented growth, a milestone that has raised inevitable questions about the next steps China must take to become a fully modern economic and political power. 
 At the geopolitical level, China would seem well positioned to expand its influence. It sits on $1.9 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, accumulated from giant trade surpluses and heavy foreign investment in China, and it could acquire discounted stakes in Western banks and industrial companies. 
 But for now, most analysts say China's top priority is protecting its own economy. Chinese leaders say the domestic financial system is largely insulated from the global crisis -- China's banks remain domestically focused and have relatively small exposure to toxic securities sold by American and European banks. But economic growth has fallen to the lowest level in five years, unemployment is a growing concern, and scores of factories are closing in the country's export region. Domestic stock exchanges have lost 65 percent of their value, and real estate sales have plummeted. 
 China still seems likely to avoid an outright recession, but a significantly slower growth would pose a political challenge for the Communist Party, which derives much of its legitimacy from delivering jobs and increasing wealth. Conventional wisdom holds that China's output must grow at a minimum of 8 percent for the economy to produce enough jobs to absorb increases in the working-age population, and many economists expect growth to drop below that level next year.
 Just last week, thousands of unemployed workers protested outside closed toy factories in Guangdong Province, the country's export hub. Slightly more than half the country's toy exporters shut down in the first seven months of this year, mostly small companies that struggled to cope with new safety standards as well as weakening Western demand, according to China's customs agency. 
 If the growth rate ''goes below 8 percent in 2009, I think they will be quite concerned,'' said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China specialist currently at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''They are always concerned about job creation.'' 
 Already, Chinese leaders are preparing a response that could resemble the government spending spree from 1998 to 2000 that is credited with helping China avoid the worst of the Asian financial crisis that broke out in 1997. Former Prime Minister Zhu Rongji poured billions of dollars into flood control, road building and new airport projects to stimulate economic output. Much of that infrastructure is now considered essential to China's competitive advantage as a manufacturing exporter. 
 Today, improvements are needed in railroads and the electrical power grid. But China's most conspicuous needs are the softer side of a modern economy -- a health care network, lower tuition and fees for schools and universities and improvement in the rudimentary social safety net, economists say. 
 Such steps are seen as crucial if China is to give consumers -- especially working-class urban residents and the 800 million people still classified as peasants -- the confidence to spend rather than increase their savings.
 ''China's infrastructure is excellent -- compare it to India,'' said Xu Xiaonian, an economics professor at the China Europe International Business School in Shanghai. ''It's getting harder for the government to find ways to spend money productively. It's stimulus for the sake of stimulus.'' 
 David H. McCormick, the under secretary for international affairs at the Treasury Department, said in a telephone interview that Chinese officials understood that the sheer size of their economy, combined with weakening demand overseas, meant that increasing demand for goods and services within China would be in China's own interest. ''They can't count on exports being such a driver of their economy going forward,'' he said.
 To date, the most significant new measure is the land reform announced last Sunday. Full details of the program are still unclear, but the plan allows farmers for the first time to lease or transfer their land-use rights, a landmark step in what is still nominally a socialist country. Economists say they believe that the measure will improve the rural economy, though few predict sudden benefits. To raise rural incomes more rapidly, the top Chinese economic planning agency on Monday raised the minimum purchase price of wheat by up to 15 percent beginning next year. 
 Transforming the countryside and creating a nation of consumers is likely to prove at least as arduous as turning China into a manufacturing giant. In recent years, President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao have eliminated the ancient agricultural tax and increased spending on rural initiatives. Yet the rural-urban income gap has continued to worsen. Today, China still has more than 500 million people living on less than $2 a day; nationwide per capita income is only about $2,000. The social safety net remains so inadequate that most peasants save their spare earnings to protect against a medical crisis or as a thin cushion for old age. 
 Andy Rothman, a longtime analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, an investment bank, said that the government had been promoting domestic consumption for years but that by necessity it was a gradual process and not one that could provide a quick fix to a global slowdown.
 ''This isn't something you want to move ahead at light speed,'' Mr. Rothman said. ''China trying to step into the breach by handing out credit cards to 800 million peasants would be a disaster just a few years down the road.'' 
 From a geopolitical standpoint, China would seem to have an opportunity to fill a void created by an ailing West, especially given the country's huge foreign exchange holdings. President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan visited Beijing this month in search of a financial edge to help his country stave off bankruptcy -- an overture that could become more common as China is perceived as sitting on a money pot. 
 More pertinent to the United States is whether China will re-examine its strategy of financing American debt. Chinese experts say that the American and Chinese economies are so intertwined that Chinese leaders will not make any abrupt changes in their policy of directing the bulk of China's foreign currency reserves to dollar-denominated assets. The United States Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and other senior American officials have been in almost daily contact with their Chinese counterparts. 
 ''China, with the responsibility of a big country, will not make trouble for international financial markets,'' said Hu Angang, a Chinese economist who is the director of the Center for China Studies at Tsinghua University. ''The Chinese government is very rational and flexible, and very clearly recognizes any policy does not just influence domestic markets but also global markets.'' 
 Some Chinese experts are suggesting that China could use more of its foreign reserves to purchase stocks in Western companies and even as leverage to gain positions on corporate boards. Doing so, these experts say, would allow China to develop expertise and gain more experience in global business.
 But others say that China was stung when a state-owned Chinese petrochemical company tried and failed to purchase Unocal, an American oil company, and that it would be cautious in making any moves deemed politically risky. Domestic pressures also exist; public criticism has erupted after some investments by the country's sovereign wealth fund lost money. 
 No one is yet certain when the global financial system will stabilize, but the crisis has convinced many economic analysts that the system itself will be re-examined. The financial crisis is ''a ground-shaking event, but people are going to stick to the same system,'' said Wang Tao, chief of the China economic research unit for UBS Securities. ''But they are going to think about how to reform the system, and China will probably have a stronger voice than before.'' 
 In recent years, some Chinese experts have written analyses about the inevitability of an American decline and how China must prepare to manage it. But in the face of the current crisis, most Chinese analysts say China is nowhere near ready yet to stand as a superpower.
 ''China doesn't want to be viewed as a replacement for the States,'' said one Chinese scholar who requested anonymity so that he could discuss the mind-set of government officials. ''We are still a developing country. We have more foreign reserves than other countries, but we also have more problems.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker sorted toys this week in Guangdong Province. New safety standards and weakening Western demand have hurt exports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Unemployed workers protested last week outside one of the many toy factories that have closed in Guangdong Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT YU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



946 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Chief Meets With Russian President but Gets No Promises

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
As oil prices tumble amid fears of a worldwide recession, OPEC has been testing the prospects of Russia joining in production cuts to help support global prices, something the authorities in Moscow have not been willing to do in former downturns.
 So far, Russia has again been noncommittal in high-level meetings, including an unusual visit to Moscow on Wednesday by OPEC's secretary general, Abdalla Salem el-Badri. Russia is the largest oil producer that is not in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev told Mr. Badri that Russia was interested in closer ties with the cartel, but he stopped short of promising any reduction in Russian oil output, on which the government depends for tax revenue.
 ''Russia is also a large producer and exporter of oil, and it is interested in maintaining stable, predictable prices,'' Mr. Medvedev told Mr. Badri during the part of the meeting that was broadcast on Russian state television.
 Mr. Badri confirmed that he was not expecting a Russian production cut. He said he had come to Moscow to share oil data with the Russians that showed a probable supply glut by the end of the year.
 But in the strongest proposal to date from Russia to support prices, a deputy prime minister, Igor I. Sechin, said that Russia might form a national petroleum reserve to divert some oil from export to limit supply on global markets.
 How much oil could be taken off the market in this way, and how soon, was unclear. In addition, Russia has never maintained a petroleum reserve and may not even have enough oil tanks to do so. 
 OPEC ministers are expected to announce a cut of about one million barrels a day at an emergency meeting in Vienna on Friday amid concerns that a global recession could drive prices down even further. In New York, oil for December delivery fell $5.43, to settle at $66.75 a barrel.
 ''The likely reason for the OPEC secretary general's visit to Moscow today was to deliver a message that Saudi Arabia will not take all the financial pain on its own,'' an investor note from Uralsib in Moscow, a large Russian bank, said Wednesday. ''The cartel is unlikely to make any deeper cuts in the future without the participation of major non-OPEC producers such as Russia.''
 Moscow's relations with the cartel are tense because Russia is the world's biggest free rider on OPEC production cuts, benefiting from the price support they provide while continuing to pump oil at full volume.
 Norway and Mexico also benefit from OPEC without belonging to it. This has angered Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf countries that take the pain for supporting prices.
 Still, even reluctant Russian coordination with OPEC would be an unwelcome prospect for consumer countries just recovering from the explosion in oil prices over the summer. 
 Russia pumps about 9.8 million barrels of oil a day, the second-greatest output in the world after Saudi Arabia, and exports about seven million barrels of crude oil and refined products, mostly to Europe. 
 Much is riding on oil prices in Russia, which has also been suffering from the price decline. The country depends on oil and natural gas for 70 percent of its exports and 60 percent of the national budget. Public sector salaries have been rising more rapidly than inflation. Consumer spending is soaring. And the Kremlin just this year floated ambitious budgets for public works and the military.
 But the Russian stock market has crumpled along with oil prices. And in the latest sign of distress, this week the ruble came under a speculative attack that led the Russian Central Bank to impose limits on currency exchange operations using borrowed money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abdalla Salem el-Badri, left, a leader of OPEC, met Wednesday in Moscow with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY ASTAKHOV/RIA-NOVOSTI, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); RECESSION (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



947 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Up Appearances, No Matter the Dow

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
LAST year, the idea of opening a luxury spa at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan sounded like a perfect business opportunity to Mathilde and Bertrand Thomas, the founders of the French skin-care company Caudalie. Their goal was to create a luxurious haven for their grape- and wine-based spa treatments, along the lines of Caudalie's original spa on the grounds of Chateau Smith Haut Lafitte, a grand cru winery in Bordeaux owned by Ms. Thomas's parents.
And so, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average soaring, the Thomases began to invest about $6 million in building a 8,000-square-foot space called the Vinotherapie Spa by Caudalie above the Plaza's Palm Court restaurant.
But as they prepared to open this month in the midst of the worldwide credit crisis, the couple anxiously wondered how many people would be eager to spend $550 for services like the 100 Percent Grape Ritual -- a combination of treatments, including a body scrub with crushed cabernet seeds. 
''We are scared,'' Ms. Thomas said as she sat in the spa's glass-walled wine lounge where a sommelier prepares tastings for clients between treatments. ''We are opening at the worst possible time.''
''I prefer to call it unfavorable circumstances,'' her husband said.
Worst-possible-timing syndrome is not limited to the Caudalie enterprise. Several classic grand hotels in New York have introduced multimillion-dollar spas amid the financial meltdown.
Against the backdrop of a wildly fluctuating stock market, these palaces of pulchritude seem retro, a throwback to the conspicuous consumption of the Reagan years. Even as luxury consumers are tightening their Hermes belts, the concentration of so many extravagant beauty emporia is raising industry concerns about market saturation.
''You are obviously going after a very high-end, upper 1 percent audience, a limited audience,'' said Francis X. Acunzo, the chief executive of Acara Partners, a spa consultant in Branford, Conn. In his 25 years in the industry, Mr. Acunzo has owned and operated more than 75 day and medical spas, he said. ''In New York, you have a higher concentration of that audience,'' he said, ''but still, are there enough people who want to spend that kind of money?''
A handful of high-end hotels think so.
In September, the Waldorf-Astoria introduced the Guerlain Spa, a $23-million center that covers 14,000 square feet. An immense sculpture, made from deconstructed Czech crystal chandeliers, greets guests in the foyer. At the spa, one of the signature treatments, a massage and facial called the Waldorf Imperiale, costs $510.
And earlier this month, at a cost of $6 million, the Carlyle hotel opened Sense, a Rosewood Spa, which features Sisley, the luxury French skin-care brand. To reach the treatment rooms, guests descend a staircase whose arched ceiling is covered with platinum mosaic tiles. The house facial, called Le Soin Sisleya Anti-Age, costs $400.
Not to be outdone, the Peninsula Hotel is revamping its three-story, 35,000-square-foot spa, which is scheduled to reopen in mid-December.
The spate of premium spas tied to prestigious cosmetics brands is no coincidence. Just like restaurants created by chefs who have Michelin star ratings, brand-name spas are playing an increasingly important role in a hotel's ability to gain or maintain elite status.
New York already has two venues that industry analysts describe as ''five-star spas'' -- properties with opulent decor, lavish treatments and stratospheric pricing. One of them, The Spa at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel, has an Asian-themed V.I.P. suite worthy of a Thai prince, with a sweeping view of northern Manhattan. The other, Cornelia Day Resort, is a 22,000-square-foot spa on Fifth Avenue, between 52nd and 53rd Streets, that cost $15 million to build and has its own roof deck.
''The market is not saturated for that level of spa,'' said Cornelia Zicu, who has since left the Cornelia spa, which she helped found, and who is now the chief creative officer of Red Door Spa Holdings. In a booming economy, Manhattan could support 20 spas of such grandeur, suggested Ms. Zicu, who was born in Romania. ''But now, to open that size in this economy with that prices, I am not optimistic.''
There were about 18,000 spas in the United States last year, compared with about 9,900 in 2003, according to the International Spa Association. Last year, the American spa industry generated $10.9 billion in revenue, up from $7 billion in 2003, the group said.
But the industry may be vulnerable. A recent e-mail survey of about 400 spas by Spa Finder, an information and marketing company, reported that two-thirds of them had fewer bookings this September compared with September 2007. Moreover, 50 percent of day spas, 55 percent of resort and hotel spas and 64 percent of medical spas in the survey reported that their revenues were lower in the first nine months of this year compared with the same period last year, the company said. Last month, there was a 25 to 30 percent increase in the number of spas offering discounts on Spafinder.com over the same period last year, the company said.
Susie Ellis, the president of Spa Finder, said that luxury spas in fancy hotels may be better able to weather consumers' cost-cutting. Such spas have a captive audience in hotel guests and residents who have bought hotel condos. In a time of heightened stress in their professional lives and plunging stock values, some patrons may even seek out such spas as a refuge, she said.
''There is always that high-end luxury consumer,'' Ms. Ellis said. But now, she said, ''there may be fewer of them.''
Indeed, earlier this year, her company stopped publishing Luxury SpaFinder, its glossy magazine, because of the limited audience for high-end pampering. The company will begin distributing a Webzine to a more general audience this year, she said.
Spa and hotel executives said new luxury spas in New York are not impervious to the economic climate. But the executives said that they are optimistic that unique features and customized services would distinguish their spas from the competition.
Sense, at the Carlyle, is a lavish jewel box, with ornate chandeliers and marble sinks. Yves Durif, a hairstylist with a devoted Upper East Side following, has just moved his salon into the space.
''Of course, you'd prefer to open in 2000, or last November at the height of the market,'' said James W. McBride, the managing director of the Carlyle. ''But if you deliver an exemplary product with exemplary service in an exemplary environment, your customer will say, 'I want to go there because it is the very best.' ''
Meanwhile, at the Guerlain Spa at the Waldorf-Astoria, each guest is assigned a spacious treatment room, with its own bathroom, in which to change and receive massages or body wraps.
Kimani Roquemore, the director of the Guerlain Spa, said a steady stream of clients has come in since the opening last month. But, as the economy takes a toll on consumers, she predicted a change of mind-set, in which customers will seek results-oriented treatments over leisure and beautification.
''There is the perception, with deep-tissue massage, that you are getting more for your money,'' Ms. Roquemore said. ''People think, 'That will work out all of the knots, and that will last me longer than the Swedish massage.' ''
At Caudalie's Vinotherapie Spa at the Plaza, Ms. Thomas said the unusual treatments would draw people interested in natural beauty remedies.
''Where else can you have a fresh grape massage or be wrapped in wine yeast and honey?'' she said. Musing on the competition, Ms. Thomas added, ''The treatments are half of the price of the Mandarin Oriental.''
About 10 to 15 people a day have had treatments at the spa since it opened last week; on average, each client had three treatments, Ms. Thomas said.
Mr. Acunzo, the spa consultant, said that it would take years for such spas to see a return on their investments.
He said that many five-star hotel spas are not designed to be profitable per se, but to increase the number of hotel guests, raise the amount each guest spends, lure celebrities and heighten the visibility of cosmetics brands.
The question, he said, is whether, in any economic climate, this town is big enough for so many over-the-top spas.
''There is not enough market share in Manhattan,'' Mr. Acunzo said. ''Six five-star luxury spas seems like way too many.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For the Imperiale massage and facial at the Waldorf-Astoria.
$510 For the house facial, Le Soin Sisleya Anti-Age, at the Carlyle.
 $400 For the 100 Percent Grape Ritual, with body scrub, at the Plaza. $550 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); MASSAGE SERVICES (78%); TOILETRIES MFG (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); WINERIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%); GUERLAIN SPA (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (61%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



948 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Markets Stall But Spoiled Always Sells

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
''IT'S chic to look post-rehab, didn't you know,'' one friend tells another on ''90210,'' setting the tone of jaded excess that is pervasive on the show, which has become a hit on the CW network. On the same episode, shown on Tuesday night, a guilty parent hands his daughter the keys to a shiny Mercedes to make up for ''bailing'' on a promised trip. 
 Cosseted youth also run free in the hit movie ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' and in best-selling novels in the young-adult aisle. The books include ''The Debs,'' ''Bratfest at Tiffany's'' and ''Schooled,'' in which New York private-school students vacation in Palm Beach, Fla., and rub shoulders at parties with Ashlee Simpson and Sarah, Duchess of York. 
 Did someone say ''economic meltdown''? You wouldn't know it from the youth-driven pop entertainment currently topping the charts. Conceived and put into production well before the Dow plunged below 10,000, this patently escapist fare might seem stunningly ill-timed. But as the latest sales figures, television ratings and box-office grosses attest, ogling the consumption of the mega-rich retains a near-prurient allure. 
 Reason may dictate that viewers turn their backs on programs about the foibles of wealthy stars of reality shows like ''The Hills'' or MTV's ''Paris Hilton's My New BFF,'' which is about a gaggle of women and men who compete to party with Ms. Hilton. But reason would seem to have little impact on the imaginations of young audiences. 
 One reason may be that such fare retains what fashion designers like to call an aspirational appeal even in hard times, much as the 1980s hits ''Dallas'' and ''Dynasty'' did just after the 1987 stock market crash. 
 ''When the economy is tough, people want something that looks optimistic,'' said Michael Kors, whose spring collection, with its polka-dotted shantung sheaths and crushed silk party skirts, reflects the upscale aspirations of a sophisticated urban middle class. ''No matter how much doom and gloom goes on, they want to believe that anything is possible.''
 Clothing sales may have slowed dramatically in recent months, according to retail reports, but the audience for entertainment about the exorbitantly rich is blue-chip. 
 ''Bratfest at Tiffany's,'' Lisi Harrison's tale of coddled students at the Octavian Country Day school in Westchester County, has sold 269,000 copies since its publication last winter, according to Nielsen BookScan; it is one of four books in the ''Clique'' series on the Nielsen list of best-selling juvenile fiction. 
 ''Gossip Girl,'' the progenitor of much of the spoiled-rotten genre in literature and on television, has drawn an average of 3.4 million viewers for the first seven weeks of its second season, up from 2.6 million last season, according to Nielsen Media Research. Television's ''90210,'' a remake of last decade's ''Beverly Hills 90210,'' has attracted an average of 4.1 million viewers this fall, making it one of the CW's highest-rated shows. And ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua,'' whose pampered canine heroine is a stand-in for spoiled teenagers, was the No. 1 film in the country in its first two weeks earlier this month. 
 Young fans of such screen fantasies seem to remain fixated on the acquisitive habits, social conventions and moral iniquities of their super-rich fictional contemporaries. In ''Schooled,'' Anisha Lakhani's acidic narrative about an Upper East Side private school, swarms of seventh graders at a party kick off their high heels before descending on the dance floor. The narrator, who is their English teacher, regards the pile of footwear with a mixture of censure and awe: ''Hard to believe, but there they lay, Jimmy Choos, Manolo Blahniks, Giuseppe Zanottis and Christian Louboutins -- the abandoned shoes of 12-year-old girls.''
 A taste for the trappings of the ruling class has also filtered into advertisements and fashions aimed at girls with heiress fantasies. A current ad for Buffalo David Bitton clothing features teenagers in crested blazers, school ties and natty argyle sweaters, which mirror a broad trend in ''Gossip Girl'' looks for fall. 
 Abigail Lorick, a designer who creates the clothes for a fashion-designer character on ''Gossip Girl,'' populated her own show, in New York last month, with models flaunting messy beehives and riding crops. Another designer, Phillip Lim, unveiled a playfully patrician collection for spring 2009, introducing diminutive blazers and pussy-bow blouses that would not look amiss on a ''Gossip Girl'' character or, for that matter, on Lauren Davis Santo Domingo, who was among the coltish society fixtures perched in Mr. Lim's front row. 
 It may be no coincidence that Ms. Santo Domingo is among a klatch of New York City social swans competing with young Hollywood celebrities for teenagers' attentions. Departing from its tradition of showcasing young rockers and models, Nylon magazine promoted a crop of ''it girls'' in its current issue, many of them clearly plucked from a privileged milieu. There is Isabelle McNally, the daughter of Keith McNally, who owns Balthazar and Pastis, restaurants frequented by the well-to-do; and Pixie Geldof (whose father is the Irish rock star Bob Geldof), shown lounging on a damask-covered daybed at her family's English estate. 
 They are modified versions of Ms. Hilton, the first rich girl in recent memory to be have been embraced by a mainstream audience. Her exploits, and those of her fictional counterparts, ''tap into the princess fantasies of 11- and 12-year-old girls,'' said David Grazian, a sociology professor who specializes in media and popular cultural at the University of Pennsylvania. That audience is the least psychologically affected by a wildly fluctuating stock market and grim headlines, Dr. Grazian said.
 Television executives working on the shows argue that they are just giving the audience what it craves. ''I don't think there are five writers in a room who are dying to write about rich people,'' said Rina Mimoun, the executive producer and creator of ''Privileged,'' another show on the CW network. ''Definitely the fascination is coming from the public.'' 
 Dr. Grazian pointed out that, at least until recently, ''that adolescent audience has had more discretionary income than at any other time in our history.'' 
 Although parents may have been urging their children to curb their spending, that is a tough sell to those reared with a sense of entitlement. ''We are living in an era in which emulations and aspiration has upscaled very significantly,'' said Juliet B. Schor, a sociology professor at Boston College. 
 She added that although the odds of significantly improving one's economic lot have been declining for years, consumers prefer to focus on another message: ''The media tells us, 'Anybody can succeed,' '' Dr. Schor said. '' 'You just have to have the right clothing, the right friends, the right decor.' '' 
 That notion is embodied by Anna Taggert, the middle-class protagonist of ''Schooled,'' who spends the small fortune she earns tutoring Park Avenue prince-lings on Lanvin dresses and Chanel carryalls. Variations on Anna and her covetous ilk are likely to remain a mainstay of young adult entertainment, for the foreseeable future at least. 
 Publishers and film producers may seek to broaden the range of young-adult entertainment to reflect real world concerns, said Sara Nelson, the president of Publishers Weekly -- but only to a point. ''I don't think suddenly you're going to find books about girls who are earnest and hardworking and help their mothers take in washing.'' 
 Nor will those books show adolescents groping in shabby environs. ''Sex is somehow more appealing,'' Ms. Nelson observed, ''if the kids have cooler stuff, better shoes to kick off, better jewelry to flaunt'' and a fancier setting -- ''the back seat of a limousine instead of the bed of a pickup truck.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SO HIP: Abigail Lorick's spring show last month captured that privileged look.
 RATING HIGH: AnnaLynne McCord plays Naomi Clark on the television show ''90210,'' while a pampered pooch named Chloe is the star of ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, WALT DISNEY PICTURES. BELOW, PATRICK ECCLESINE/CW)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); BESTSELLERS (75%); BOOK SALES (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); RETAIL SALES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (65%); TICKET SALES (65%); FASHION DESIGN (62%)

PERSON: SARAH FERGUSON (52%); PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



949 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Agrees to Suspend Millions in Executive Bonus Payments

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
The beleaguered insurer American International Group has agreed to suspend payments to executives from a $600 million bonus fund as well as $19 million in payments to its former chief executive, the New York attorney general announced on Wednesday.
 The moves are the latest steps in an effort by the attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, to prevent bonuses and other compensation to former executives at A.I.G., which in recent weeks has received tens of billions of dollars in loans from the Federal Reserve.
 ''There should not even be any contemplation of bonuses for executive performance because I find it hard to conceive of a situation that you could justify a performance bonus for management that virtually bankrupted the company,'' Mr. Cuomo said on a conference call with reporters on Wednesday afternoon. 
 Regulators and lawmakers have pointed to A.I.G. as an example of excessive greed in corporate America. Although the Treasury Department is imposing limits on compensation to the most highly paid executives at companies that receive government aid, the limits do not address compensation paid in the past or under pre-existing employment contracts. 
 In A.I.G.'s case, according to Mr. Cuomo's office, it is unlikely that the limits in the bailout legislation would apply because the company has received money in the form of loans from the Fed, not from transactions with the Treasury Department.
 According to a letter Mr. Cuomo sent to A.I.G.'s current chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, the company has agreed to freeze $19 million in remaining payments to Martin J. Sullivan, the company's former chief executive who was ousted in June. Mr. Cuomo said he did not know how much Mr. Sullivan might have already been paid under his employment contract.
 The company also agreed not to make any payments from a $600 million deferred compensation and bonus fund for executives of A.I.G.'s financial products unit, which undertook many of the complex financial transactions that pushed the company to the brink of collapse. Mr. Cuomo said that Joseph Cassano, who headed that unit, stood to receive $70 million from the fund.
 ''We have received the letter, and the letter is consistent with our discussions with the attorney general and with actions we have taken,'' said Joe Norton, a spokesman for A.I.G.
 Mr. Cuomo has already called on A.I.G. to help recover payments made to former executives at the company. During the call with reporters, Mr. Cuomo suggested that his actions offered a template for dealing with executive compensation at companies now receiving taxpayer money through the bailout approved by Congress this month. 
 ''Once a company accepts tax dollars, there are different rules,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''These are taxpayers who did not voluntarily make an investment in these companies. In many ways it was a forced investment.''
 The suspension of payments appears to be the product of negotiation between Mr. Cuomo's office and A.I.G., but last week the attorney general raised the prospect of using New York law to recover past payments to executives whether the company cooperated or not. 
 A.I.G.'s spending drew national attention this month after two former executives testified before Congress about pay practices and outsize spending that continued even after the company received an $85 billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve. 
 One particular point of contention was a weeklong retreat that a subsidiary, AIG General, held for sales agents. The $442,000 in expenses included $150,000 for food and $23,000 in spa charges. A.I.G., which received an additional $37.8 billion loan from the Fed, later canceled 160 conferences and other events that would have cost more than $8 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE BONUSES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CONTRACTS LAW (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); APPROVALS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%); JOE CASSANO (58%); MARTIN J SULLIVAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



950 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: The Showdown Over Term Limits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Council Schedules Thursday Vote on Term Limits Change'' (news article, Oct. 22):
 In the discussion and debate over term limits in New York City, the issues raised have mainly been about the qualifications of the possible candidates and the deference due to the popular will as expressed through two referendums. 
 But very little attention has been given to what those of us who voted for term limits in the first place want to have as a result. 
 We don't want term limits so that we can be precluded from electing competent candidates. We don't want term limits so that elected officials are prevented from having a career in public service. We want term limits because the way the city government works, incumbency is necessarily corrupting. 
 If City Council members would give up member items, off-budget and hidden financing of ''friendly'' organizations and the practice of using taxpayer-financed improvements as perpetual campaign advertising, then we would be able to abandon term limits.
 If the Council is determined to vote on the subject, let the members first vote to end the practices that make extended incumbency problematic. Then, by referendum, we'll gladly eliminate term limits. Eliot M. Solomon 
 Brooklyn, Oct. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 After hearing the cacophony of protests the last few days over a possible third term for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, I think it might be helpful to hear what the guy on the street is thinking. Everyone I have spoken to about this issue agrees that we should welcome a third term.
 The goal of term limits is to prevent the abuse of power. That is not the situation here. Mayor Bloomberg has done a fine job of marshaling our assets, leading environmental efforts and envisioning the city's future. He wouldn't have a learning curve in the difficult months ahead.
 It's a fair-minded no-brainer for the City Council to revise the term limits law to allow a third term and not waste tax dollars on a costly special election.
 Marjorie Parsons 
 New York, Oct. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 If Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's goal in seeking a third term is to help New York City through a financial crisis, there are about 101 ways he can offer his leadership that won't involve an end run around the voters. 
 He can volunteer to be an adviser to the next administration. He can run for comptroller. Or the most obvious: he can call for a referendum on mayoral term limits. The list goes on.
 The mayor's desire for a third term predates the current financial crisis. Last spring he and his allies were putting out feelers on the subject. They could easily have proposed a voter referendum then. There's one reason they didn't: they knew term limits would be upheld by voters a third time in spite of the mayor's high approval ratings. 
 Waiting until now to plead for another term while arguing that there isn't time for a referendum is both calculated and opportunistic. Mark Gleason 
 South Orange, N.J., Oct. 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 When asked whether people would hold his bid for a third term against him, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg encapsulated his disregard for democracy by observing that ''people do forget about these things.'' 
 Still, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has proclaimed Mr. Bloomberg to be ''spectacularly well suited to the task'' to be mayor yet again. But by what standard is he thus qualified? 
 While Mr. Bloomberg was a spectacularly successful businessman, as mayor he has actually failed in most of his goals, including the West Side stadium and congestion pricing. Even the Atlantic Yards development is stalled. I am hard pressed to find him even adequate. 
 If Mayor Bloomberg had the fiscal prescience he is credited with -- especially as a man whose fortune was made as the founder of a financial news and data company -- shouldn't he have encouraged a more diversified base for New York City's prosperity than the notoriously fickle stock market? 
 His bid to evade vox populi is self-serving, and unwarranted. 
 Perry Weiner 
 Brooklyn, Oct. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Mayor Enlists His Charities in Bid to Stay'' (front page, Oct. 18):
 The disclosure that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his top aides have been pressing charities to support his bid to persuade the City Council to change the term limits law would seem to explain the dozing rent-a-crowd sign holders who packed Council chambers during the public hearings, as well as the supportive testimony by numerous charities.
 As I pointed out in my testimony, it is a conflict of interest for charities receiving financing from the city (let alone the mayor's personal largess) to testify on the city's term limits law. 
 Charities cannot be expected to offer objective testimony if their receipt of millions of dollars in city contracts and personal donations from the mayor is at risk, even if the risk is unspoken. 
 The mayor should not place our city's respected charitable organizations in this ethical muddle.
 The central public policy question posed by the term limits debate is not whether Mayor Bloomberg and other elected officials deserve to be elected to third terms, but whether any change to the city's term limits law should be made by the City Council or by a citizen referendum. Charities have no conceivable interest in taking a position on this important political process question. 
 Scott Caplan 
 New York, Oct. 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's attempt to circumvent the public trust to ease term limits is a self-serving act of desperation by an elitist billionaire whose real concern is his political survival. 
 Avoiding a referendum on term limits exposes an unforgivable flaw in the mayor's overall honest persona and reflects his fear and unwillingness to abide by the wishes of the voters in New York City. David Pollack
 Long Island City, Queens, Oct. 20, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); CITY LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



951 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Obama Chides Biden Over Remark About a World Crisis Testing His Presidency

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Green, Ohio.

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Senators Barack Obama and Joseph R. Biden Jr. seldom see each other as they campaign for the Democratic ticket. And they talk only occasionally. But on Wednesday, Mr. Obama delivered a long-distance message to his running mate. 
 ''I think Joe sometimes engages in rhetorical flourishes,'' Mr. Obama said, gently chiding the vice-presidential nominee as he sought to sweep aside a dustup Mr. Biden touched off when he predicted that a world crisis would test Mr. Obama during his first six months in office.
 ''A period of transition in a new administration is always one where we have to be vigilant, we have to be careful,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We have to be mindful that as we pass the baton in this democracy that others don't take advantage of it -- that's true whether it's myself or Senator McCain.''
 In his remarks, Mr. Biden told supporters at a Seattle fund-raiser on Sunday that if Mr. Obama was elected, the world's leaders would test his mettle as a young president, just as they did John F. Kennedy. The comment from Mr. Biden fanned a new line of criticism from Republicans that Mr. Obama is not ready for the presidency.
 Mr. Obama convened a meeting of his foreign policy advisers here on Wednesday, which he said was not intended to address that remark, but rather to expand the campaign conversation beyond the economic crisis. Mr. Biden participated in a private portion of the meeting by telephone from Colorado, but did not appear on stage with Mr. Obama.
 ''I think that his core point was that the next administration is going to be tested, regardless of who it is,'' Mr. Obama said, placing his interpretation on Mr. Biden's comments. ''The next administration is going to be inheriting a host of really big problems.''
 He added, ''The question is, Will the next president meet that test by moving America in a new direction by sending a clear signal to the rest of the world that we are no longer about bluster and unilateralism and ideology?''
 Mr. McCain kept up his criticism of the Democratic ticket for Mr. Biden's remarks. At a rally on Wednesday in Green, Ohio, Mr. McCain told the crowd, ''Senator Biden guaranteed that if Senator Obama is elected, we will have an international crisis to test America's new president!''
 ''We don't want a president who invites testing from the world at a time when the economy is in crisis,'' Mr. McCain added. ''Americans are already fighting in two wars, my friends. Senator Biden referred to how Jack Kennedy was tested in the Cuban missile crisis. I had a little personal experience on that. I was a pilot on board the U.S.S. Enterprise, I was ready to go into combat at any minute, I know how close we came to a nuclear war, and I will not be a president that needs to be tested!''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



952 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: $150,000 Wardrobe for Palin May Alter Tailor-Made Image

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and MICHAEL LUO; Elisabeth Bumiller and Leslie Wayne contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Sarah Palin's wardrobe joined the ranks of symbolic political excess on Wednesday, alongside John McCain's multiple houses and John Edwards's $400 haircut, as Republicans expressed fear that weeks of tailoring Ms. Palin as an average ''hockey mom'' would fray amid revelations that the Republican Party outfitted her with expensive clothing from high-end stores.
 Cable television, talk radio and even shows like ''Access Hollywood'' seemed gripped with sartorial fever after campaign finance reports confirmed that the Republican National Committee spent $75,062 at Neiman Marcus and $49,425 at Saks Fifth Avenue in September for Ms. Palin and her family.
 Advisers to Ms. Palin said on Wednesday that the purchases -- which totaled about $150,000 and were classified as ''campaign accessories'' -- were made on the fly after Ms. Palin, the governor of Alaska, was chosen as the Republican vice-presidential candidate on Aug. 29 and needed new clothes to match climates across the 50 states. They emphasized, too, that Ms. Palin did not spend time on the shopping, and that other people made the decision to buy such an array of clothes. 
 Yet Republicans expressed consternation publicly and privately that the shopping sprees on her behalf, which were first reported by Politico, would compromise Ms. Palin's standing as Senator McCain's chief emissary to working-class voters whose salvos at the so-called cultural elite often delight audiences at Republican rallies.
 That possibility was brought to life, for instance, on ''The View'' on ABC, as Joy Behar, a co-host, noted the McCain campaign's outreach to blue-collar workers -- like an Ohio plumber who recently chided Senator Barack Obama over taxes -- after another co-host, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, defended the expenditures.
 ''I don't think Joe the Plumber wears Manolo Blahniks,'' Ms. Behar said.
 Advisers to Mr. Obama -- as well as those of his rival in the Democratic primaries, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton -- said that campaign money was never spent on personal clothing but that potentially embarrassing purchases could be blended into advertising budgets. 
 Mr. Edwards, the former North Carolina senator, however, listed two $400 haircuts as a campaign expense, and after they were detected he struggled to shake an elitist image in his failed Democratic presidential bid.
 Such an image is unhelpful at this late stage of the general election, Republicans said, especially when many families are experiencing economic pain, and when the image applies to a candidate, like Ms. Palin, who has run for office in part on her appeal as an outdoors enthusiast and former small-town mayor who scorns pretensions.
 ''It looks like nobody with a political antenna was working on this,'' said Ed Rollins, a Republican political consultant who ran President Ronald Reagan's re-election campaign in 1984. ''It just undercuts Palin's whole image as a hockey mom, a 'one-of-us' kind of candidate.''
 Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, have been described as elitist by both Republicans and Democrats at times, and so much was made when she appeared on ''The View'' in June in a black-and-white patterned dress. Turns out it sold for $148 at an off-the-rack store.
 Few Republican operatives or politicians, even those critical of the McCain-Palin campaign, were publicly criticizing the ticket on Wednesday over the clothing purchases. Some said privately that doing so would be akin to kicking a campaign while it was down. 
 Others said the issue was tainted with sexism, given that male politicians often spend thousands of dollars on suits.
 ''She had a legitimate need to purchase clothing to get her through three months of grueling campaigning in the constant spotlight of television cameras,'' said William F. B. O'Reilly, a Republican consultant in New York. ''No one would blink if this was a male candidate buying Brooks Brothers suits.''
 Other Republicans said the focus on Ms. Palin's clothing did not fairly reflect the challenge she faced: Neither she nor her Republican allies expected that she would be tapped as Mr. McCain's running mate until the last minute, when she was elevated from her comfort zone in Alaska and presented to the nation as the first female Republican vice-presidential nominee.
 ''If they hadn't done this, 'Saturday Night Live' would be doing jokes where Governor Palin would be dressed in elk skin,'' said Rich Galen, a Republican consultant not associated with the McCain campaign. 
 Party officials, who said they had discussed the matter with McCain and Palin advisers, said all concerned wanted Ms. Palin to present herself as a fashionable-but-sensible on-the-go working mother -- a multilayered sartorial strategy, in other words, that has yielded an array of well-cut jackets and skirts, suitable for the different seasons and state climates.
 More than $130,000 of the charges used to outfit Ms. Palin and her family were initially footed by Jeff Larson, a prominent Republican consultant in St. Paul whose firm has been tied to the onslaught of negative robocalls about Mr. Obama from Mr. McCain's campaign. Mr. Larson was also the chief executive of the local host committee for the Republican National Convention, in Minneapolis-St. Paul.
 Federal Election Commission records showed Mr. Larson was reimbursed by the Republican National Committee for charges at Saks Fifth Avenue, Neiman Marcus, Macy's, Barneys New York and Atelier New York, a men's clothing store.
 Other purchases by the R.N.C. included $98 from Pacifier, a children's boutique in Minneapolis.
 Hours before Ms. Palin was to speak at the convention on Sept. 3, a woman burst into the store, said Jon Witthuhn, an owner. After she said she needed something for a 6-month-old boy and was doing shopping related to the convention, it began to dawn on him that he might be outfitting Trig Palin, Ms. Palin's youngest.
 The woman paid for a blue striped convertible romper, a matching monkey-ear hat and socks. Trig Palin appeared on television that night wearing the outfit -- without the hat.
 Republican officials said all the clothes would be given to charity after the campaign is over. If Ms. Palin kept the clothes, the $150,000 would have to be taxed as income, tax experts said. 
 Had the purchases been made by the McCain campaign, it would be a conversion of campaign money into personal use, which is prohibited. The same rule does not apply to money from party committees.
 ''The R.N.C. cleverly used the party committee's money to avoid the liability that would have occurred if campaigns funds were used,'' said Kenneth Gross, a lawyer who is an expert in campaign finance.
 Under disclosure requirements of the Alaska Public Offices Commission, Ms. Palin would need to report any gifts valued at over $250 from a single giver.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Sarah Palin on Sunday at a rally in St. Clairsville, Ohio.Gov. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); BUDGETS (75%); FAMILY (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); MAYORS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



953 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls 20 Nations To Meeting On Markets

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush will convene leaders of 20 nations in Washington on Nov. 15 for an emergency summit meeting to discuss the economic crisis, the White House said Wednesday. But the session, coming less than two weeks after the presidential election, could put Mr. Bush on a collision course with his successor.
 The White House said Mr. Bush would ''seek the input'' of the president-elect, and both the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, and the Democrat, Senator Barack Obama, praised Mr. Bush for convening the session. But neither man committed to attending, and the White House conceded it did not quite know how the meeting would play out.
 The White House envisions the meeting as the first of a series of international meetings intended to lay the groundwork for a possible overhaul of the rules governing financial markets, in much the way that the conference at Bretton Woods, N.H., in 1944 remade the global financial system -- spurred by the Great Depression and World War II. 
 Many economists say such a meeting is necessary and important, coming at a time when fears of a contagion among emerging market economies have multiplied. But from the American political perspective, the timing -- at the tail end of a lame-duck administration -- is terrible. 
 If history is any guide, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain might prefer to steer clear. Historians say Mr. Bush's summit meeting brings to mind similar efforts of another president facing tough economic times, Herbert Hoover. During the Great Depression, in the waning days of his administration, Hoover tried to draw the president-elect, Franklin D. Roosevelt, into policy prescriptions for the economy, but Roosevelt steadfastly resisted.
 ''Roosevelt simply did not want to get close to him or be identified with anything he would want to do, because he was terribly unpopular, and the same now exists with George W. Bush,'' said the historian Robert Dallek. ''In some ways, he's trying to rescue his reputation, and the last thing Obama or even McCain are going to care about is saving George Bush's reputation.''
 The White House press secretary, Dana Perino, said Wednesday that it was ''too early to say'' if the incoming president would attend. ''Let's just let this election happen,'' Ms. Perino said. ''We don't want to box the next president in.''
 Mr. Obama, appearing in Richmond, Va., said the meeting provided ''an opportunity to advance the kind of cooperation'' that he himself had called for last month, when he advocated global coordination in addressing the credit crisis. Mr. McCain's senior economics adviser, Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, called the session ''an important opportunity to take urgent steps toward recovery.''
 One question, though, is how much Mr. Bush can accomplish with so little time left in office and foreign leaders already looking toward a successor who could easily undo any commitments he makes. 
 The conference will come just days before Mr. Bush's last official foreign trip, to South America for a conference of leaders of Asian-Pacific nations. Ms. Perino said the White House thought it was important not to wait.
 ''We didn't want the financial crisis to happen at all,'' she said, adding, ''but now that it's happened, we can't control the timing of it.''
 Some economists said the meeting could have a calming effect on markets, if only by demonstrating that world leaders are willing to cooperate. ''At best it does something; at worst it does no harm,'' said Carmen M. Reinhart, a professor at the University of Maryland who is writing a book on financial crises.
 But others are skeptical that a meeting pulled together on such a hurried basis could produce substantive results. They said that the Bretton Woods conference, which resulted in the creation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, was years in the planning.
 ''Things like this that produce real results for the world are planned years in advance,'' said Edwin M. Truman, who was an assistant secretary of the Treasury under President Bill Clinton. ''The notion that you're going to have something come out of this in three months is probably naive.''
 Indeed, the meeting is being planned in such haste that Ms. Perino said the White House was not yet certain where it would be held. She said the goal was for the leaders to ''agree on a common set of principles for reform'' and then direct financial experts ''to put meat on the bones when it comes to fleshing out the principles.''
 Mr. Bush has been under intense pressure from his counterparts in Europe, notably President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, to hold a meeting of world economic powers. But the White House at first sounded resistant to the idea; administration officials have said Mr. Bush is concerned that adding new layers of regulation could stifle free markets and free trade.
 On Saturday, Mr. Sarkozy and the president of the European Union, Jose Manuel Barroso, had dinner with Mr. Bush at Camp David and apparently brokered a deal. Although Mr. Sarkozy had suggested earlier that day that the meeting be held in New York, the White House wanted it in Washington, on Mr. Bush's turf. 
 The president also insisted that the sessions include developing nations -- a decision that experts said acknowledges the risk that such countries face, especially now that larger, more prosperous nations have poured billions into stabilizing their banks. The rescue measures adopted by Western countries, including the United States, actually heighten the risk for emerging markets, because banks in those countries are now less safe than those in the Western economies.
 The talks come as nations like Hungary, Ukraine and Belarus are showing the same symptoms -- flight of foreign capital, plummeting currencies and soaring inflation -- that hit Iceland recently, capsizing its banking system and hobbling its economy.
 All these countries are in talks with the International Monetary Fund for loans to stabilize their banks. With Western banks pulling back credit, the list of countries at risk of a financial crisis could grow to include several more in Central Europe and Latin America, economists say.
 ''You've got a lot of emerging markets who are going to go to this meeting and say 'You've got to take this seriously,' '' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.
 With Europe and the United States both paying for costly bank bailouts, however, they have limited resources to help countries directly. That suggests a growing role for the fund, as well as for the World Bank. The White House has invited the heads of both institutions to the meeting. 
 The countries invited are drawn from the so-called G-20, a forum of rich and emerging nations that was convened in 1999 after the Asian economic crisis. Its members are: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, Britain, the United States and the European Union. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The White House envisions an overhaul of financial markets as was done at the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944, here being addressed by the British economist John Maynard Keynes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HISTORY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



954 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Rebranding The U.S. With Obama

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The other day I had a conversation with a Beijing friend and I mentioned that Barack Obama was leading in the presidential race:
 She: Obama? But he's the black man, isn't he?
 Me: Yes, exactly.
 She: But surely a black man couldn't become president of the United States? 
 Me: It looks as if he'll be elected.
 She: But president? That's such an important job! In America, I thought blacks were janitors and laborers.
 Me: No, blacks have all kinds of jobs.
 She: What do white people think about that, about getting a black president? Are they upset? Are they angry?
 Me: No, of course not! If Obama is elected, it'll be because white people voted for him.
 [Long pause.]
 She: Really? Unbelievable! What an amazing country!
 We're beginning to get a sense of how Barack Obama's political success could change global perceptions of the United States, redefining the American ''brand'' to be less about Guantanamo and more about equality. This change in perceptions would help rebuild American political capital in the way that the Marshall Plan did in the 1950s or that John Kennedy's presidency did in the early 1960s.
 In his endorsement of Mr. Obama, Colin Powell noted that ''the new president is going to have to fix the reputation that we've left with the rest of the world.'' That's not because we crave admiration, but because cooperation is essential to address 21st-century challenges; you can't fire cruise missiles at the global financial crisis.
 In his endorsement, Mr. Powell added that an Obama election ''will also not only electrify our country, I think it'll electrify the world.'' You can already see that. A 22-nation survey by the BBC found that voters abroad preferred Mr. Obama to Mr. McCain in every single country -- by four to one over all. Nearly half of those in the BBC poll said that the election of Mr. Obama, an African-American, would ''fundamentally change'' their perceptions of the United States.
 Europe is particularly intoxicated by the possibility of restoring amity with America in an Obama presidency. As The Economist put it: ''Across the Continent, Bush hatred has been replaced by Obama-mania.''
 Steven Kull, director of the Program on International Policy Attitudes, which conducted the BBC poll, said that at a recent international conference he attended in Malaysia, many Muslims voiced astonishment at Mr. Obama's rise because it was so much at odds with their assumptions about the United States. Remember that the one thing countless millions of people around the world ''know'' about the United States is that it is controlled by a cabal of white bankers and Jews who use police with fire hoses to repress blacks. To them, Mr. Obama's rise triggers severe cognitive dissonance. 
 ''It's an anomaly, so contrary to their expectation that it makes them receptive to a new paradigm for the U.S.,'' Mr. Kull said. 
 Europeans like to mock the vapidity of American politics, but they also acknowledge that it would be difficult to imagine a brown or black person leading France or Germany.
 As for Africa, Mr. Obama's Kenyan father was of the Luo tribe, a minority that has long suffered brutal discrimination in both Kenya and in Uganda (where it is known as the Acholi). The bitter joke in East Africa is that a Luo has more of a chance of becoming president in the United States than in Kenya.
 Yet before we get too far with the self-congratulations, it's worth remembering something else.
 In the western industrialized world, full of university graduates and marinated in principles of egalitarianism, the idea of electing a member of a racial minority to the highest office seems an astonishing breakthrough. But Jamaica's 95 percent black population elected a white man as its prime minister in 1980, and kept him in office throughout that decade.
 Likewise, the African nation of Mauritius has elected a white prime minister of French origin. And don't forget that India is overwhelmingly Hindu but now has a Sikh prime minister and a white Christian as president of its ruling party, and until last year it had a Muslim in the largely ceremonial position of president.
 Look, Mr. Obama's skin color is a bad reason to vote for him or against him. Substance should always trump symbolism.
 Yet if this election goes as the polls suggest, we may find a path to restore America's global influence -- and thus to achieve some of our international objectives -- in part because the world is concluding that Americans can, after all, see beyond a person's epidermis. My hunch is that that is right, and that we're every bit as open-minded about racial minorities as Jamaicans already were a quarter-century ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); BRANDING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



955 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Scrutinizes Rating Firms

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Conflicts of interest were largely responsible for the disastrous performance of credit rating agencies in assessing the risks of mortgage-backed securities, two former high-ranking officials at Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's said Wednesday in Congressional testimony.
 The securities issuers pay the agencies to issue ratings, and the agencies' interests can eclipse those of investors, Jerome S. Fons, who was the managing director for credit policy at Moody's until 2007, told the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
 ''While the methods used to rate structured securities have rightly come under fire, in my opinion the business model prevented analysts from putting investor interests first,'' he said.
 And Frank L. Raiter, who was the head of mortgage ratings at Standard & Poor's for 10 years, characterized the failures at that company by saying simply: ''Profits were running the show.''
 The hearings on the role played by the rating agencies in the financial crisis were convened by Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, who is chairman of the committee. It was the panel's third hearing on the crisis. Others focused on the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the bailout of the American International Group.
 ''The story of the credit rating agencies is a story of colossal failure,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''The credit rating agencies occupy a special place in our financial markets. Millions of investors rely on them for independent, objective assessments. The rating agencies broke this bond of trust, and federal regulators ignored the warning signs and did nothing to protect the public.'' 
 As mortgage delinquencies and defaults have skyrocketed over the last 18 months, it has become clear that the agencies that assigned high ratings to the securities that contained these loans severely underestimated their risks. Indeed, Mr. Waxman noted that S.& P. had downgraded more than two-thirds of its investment-grade ratings and Moody's had reduced assigned ratings on more than 5,000 mortgage-backed securities. 
 Testifying after Mr. Fons and Mr. Raiter were top executives of the three large rating agencies -- Deven Sharma of Standard & Poor's, Raymond W. McDaniel of Moody's and Stephen W. Joynt of Fitch Ratings. Sean Egan, managing director of Egan-Jones Ratings, an independent rating agency that does not receive payment from issuers, also testified. 
 Among the documents uncovered by the committee was an internal board presentation delivered by Mr. McDaniel to Moody's directors in October 2007. According to the presentation, he told his board: Analysts and managing directors ''are continually 'pitched' by bankers, issuers, investors.'' At times, he conceded, ''we drink the Kool-Aid.''
 The three current executives of the leading rating agencies denied to lawmakers that conflicts of interest had impaired their judgment on mortgage securities. Mr. Sharma of S.& P. said his firm ''was not alone'' in being surprised by the decline in housing markets. He cited 27 initiatives taken by the firm to ''enhance the integrity of our ratings process.'' To protect against conflicts, for example, S.& P. now rotates analysts in their assignments and has established an ombudsman office.
 Mr. McDaniel also said that Moody's had changed its practices to strengthen its standards, including hiring more surveillance analysts and compliance professionals. And Mr. Joynt of Fitch Ratings said his firm was committed to the highest standards of objectivity. 
 Mr. Raiter, the former S.& P. executive who left the company in 2005, said that a new and more detailed mortgage loan performance model developed at the company in 2001 and incorporating 2.5 million loans had not been adopted, he said, ''due to budgetary concerns.'' 
 Mr. Raiter said that the residential mortgage rating group at S.& P. had captured the largest market share among its main competitors -- 92 percent or better -- ''and improving the model would not add to S.& P.'s revenues.'' 
 S.& P. said that the detailed model mentioned by Mr. Raiter had been tested by the company and found not to be as reliable as he maintained. 
 Mr. Waxman's committee also cited an internal e-mail exchange between Mr. Raiter, who had been asked to rate a collateralized debt obligation called ''Pinstripe,'' and Richard Gugliada, an S.& P. managing director. Mr. Raiter had requested highly detailed data about each individual loan, known as loan level tapes, to assess the creditworthiness of the loans in the security, but Mr. Gugliada wrote: ''Any request for loan level tapes is totally unreasonable!!! It is your responsibility to provide those credit estimates and your responsibility to devise some method for doing so.'' 
 Mr. Raiter responded: ''This is the most amazing memo I have ever received in my business career.'' Asked what followed the exchange, Mr. Raiter said he never rated the obligation. 
 Chris Atkins, an S.& P. spokesman, said: ''It has long been the practice of S.& P. to review loan level data for new R.M.B.S. securities. The e-mail in question reflects a discussion regarding the appropriate analytical treatment for a C.D.O. rating of an underlying asset that had been rated by another credit rating agency.''
 Asked how to fix the problem of potential conflicts among rating agencies, Mr. Egan, of Egan-Jones, said change would come only if institutional investors no longer made investment decisions based on ratings produced by agencies that take money from issuers. ''Institutional investors know darn well that ratings are paid for by the issuers,'' he said, ''so why do they have all their investment guidelines geared to conflicted ratings?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Joynt, of Fitch, left
with Raymond McDaniel, center, of Moody's
 and Deven Sharma, of S.& P., are sworn in at Wednesday's hearing in the House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE JACKSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (85%); MOODY'S CORP (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: RAYMOND MCDANIEL (79%); HENRY WAXMAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



956 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words

 BODY:
DEFENDING HIS ACTIONS Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, faces serious questions about his decision to let Lehman Brothers fall. 
 In a test of the market for credit default swaps, hundreds of traders who placed bets on Lehman Brothers' creditworthiness before it went bankrupt have settled their positions. [A20.] 
 EXIT SIGNS As the woes of the hedge fund industry deepen, money managers fear hundreds or even thousands of funds could be driven out of business. [A1.]
 GLOBAL SUMMIT World leaders will meet Nov. 15 in Washington to address the financial crisis -- the first in a series of summits to mitigate what economists predict could be a long downturn. [B1.]
 MAN WITH THE GOLDEN TOUCH Sun Microsystems is losing Andreas von Bechtolsheim, left, a co-founder and brilliant inventor, who is leaving to focus on Arista Networks, a start-up that is challenging another industry giant, Cisco Systems. [B1.]
 MORE CROP PER DROP Scientists at many of the biggest agricultural companies are busy tweaking plant genes in search of a formula for crops that can thrive with little water. [B1.]
 MARKET WOES Worries that slowing economic growth will pummel the corporate sector sent the Dow Jones industrials down more than 500 points. [B1.]
 JOB CUTS Merck said it would eliminate 7,200 jobs, or 12 percent of its work force, as the pharmaceutical company faced generic competition and falling sales of its cholesterol medicine and cervical cancer vaccine. [B3.]
 UNDER SCRUTINY Two former ratings agency executives told Congress of conflicts of interest that contributed to the turmoil in the mortgage market. [B1.]
 SMALL CAMERA, BIG PICTURE Panasonic offers a digital camera that matches a compact body with the photographic quality of a single-lens reflex. State of the Art: David Pogue. [B1.]
 JUMP IN PROFIT Amazon.com said that its profit climbed 48 percent in the third quarter, but the company reduced its fourth-quarter sales outlook. [B3.]
 OIL TALKS President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia told OPEC that he was interested in closer ties with the cartel, but stopped short of promising any reduction in Russian oil output. [B4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Merck price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CARTELS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); CANCER (65%); CANCER DRUGS (65%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (65%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (64%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (64%); VACCINES (52%); CERVICAL CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



957 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: In South Dakota Race, Gauging the Impact of a Senator's Health

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON and DAVID HERSZENHORN; Dirk Johnson reported from South Dakota, and David Herszenhorn from Washington.

 BODY:
RAPID CITY, S.D. -- Senator Tim Johnson speaks slowly and haltingly, and is sometimes difficult to understand. He moves with a cane, and spends much of his time in a wheelchair. He rarely addresses large crowds, and he has declined a request to debate his Republican challenger in next month's election.
Mr. Johnson's supporters in South Dakota, a state with a large share of older people familiar with health problems, say they have been inspired by his display of grit in battling back from a brain hemorrhage nearly two years ago.
But questions about Mr. Johnson's health -- until now largely off limits and deemed unseemly -- are being raised publicly by his Republican opponent, Joel Dean Dykstra, a state representative. Mr. Dykstra said voters ''want some evidence as to whether he can hold his own.'' 
It is sensitive territory, but some voters say they fret that Mr. Johnson's health issues could shortchange South Dakota in Washington, especially during a time of deep financial crisis.
''I have a lot of respect for Johnson,'' said Jack Lefler, a 72-year-old retired Caterpillar worker. ''But I don't think he's physically able to compete'' with the politicians from other states.
Before his hemorrhage in December 2006, Mr. Johnson -- a Democrat in a largely Republican state -- had been considered vulnerable by Republicans, having won re-election in 2002 by a margin of just 524 votes out of more than 330,000 cast.
Now, though, even voters like Mr. Lefler acknowledge that they are in the minority.
''We're a loyal state,'' Mr. Lefler said, ''so people will back Johnson.''
Most polls show Mr. Johnson, who is seeking a third term, leads Mr. Dykstra by comfortable margins.
''South Dakota is a very kind state,'' said Steve Jarding, a Harvard political scientist on leave to run Mr. Johnson's re-election campaign. ''People were rooting for Tim -- Democrats, Republicans, independents -- they wanted him to be O.K.''
On mornings when the Senate is in his session, Mr. Johnson plows through stacks of memorandums and his daily press clippings, newspapers and magazines. And he maintains a regular calendar of meetings with constituents and others. On Tuesday, he traveled to Washington from South Dakota to meet on Wednesday with officials from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, ahead of a Senate banking committee hearing.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the committee, said Mr. Johnson had been a full participant in recent months as the committee dealt with the effects of the mortgage and financial crises.
''Obviously, having a conversation is slower because of his speech,'' Mr. Dodd said. ''But there's nothing slower about his mind.''
Some things have changed. Mr. Johnson no longer drives himself to work. He uses e-mail less frequently in favor of face-to-face conversations with his staff. And he is less likely to jump up to make his own photocopies or fetch pens from a supply cabinet, aides said.
Mr. Johnson, in an interview here, said he had been a legislative powerhouse for South Dakota, leading the drive for federal approval of two huge water projects. Since returning to the Senate in September 2007, after a nine-month absence, he has not missed a vote.
''I had my most successful year ever,'' he said.
Mr. Johnson was recently here in Rapid City for Native American Day, a holiday South Dakotans observe while other states mark Columbus Day. Wearing a bolo tie with a Medicine Hat design, he sat in a wheelchair at the Black Hills Pow Wow, when an elderly woman moved toward him to whisper in his ear.
''You're a true friend to the native people,'' Phoebe Kuecker, 84, who belongs to the Rosebud Sioux tribe, said she told him, as she clasped his shoulder.
With nine reservations in the state, American Indians account for perhaps 10 percent of the vote in South Dakota. In his last election, in 2002, Mr. Johnson won 94 percent of the vote among the Oglala Sioux, the state's biggest tribe.
South Dakota can seem like two different states, divided by the Missouri River. To the west, where Republicans dominate (except for Indian Country), the culture seems drawn from the Old West: cattle ranches, old gold towns, the Black Hills. To the east, where Democrats are more competitive, corn and soybean farms outnumber ranches, and the financial and technological sectors are important players.
Despite its Republican leanings, South Dakota has produced some high-profile Democrats, including two senators, Tom Daschle, the former Senate majority leader, and George McGovern, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1972.
While Mr. Dykstra has sought to portray Mr. Johnson as too liberal for the state, most South Dakotans seem to see him mostly as a pragmatist. As a show of Mr. Johnson's political strength, and his popularity among conservatives, he recently won the endorsement of the National Rifle Association. He has also been endorsed by Dave Munson, the Republican mayor of the state's biggest city, Sioux Falls.
Mr. Johnson visited 20 cities in August, and is in the midst of a state tour now, but much of his time is spent in private meetings. He visited the popular South Dakota broadcaster Tony Dean not long before Mr. Dean's death on Sunday.
''He came to see me when I was in the hospital,'' said Mr. Johnson, explaining his visit to the ailing Mr. Dean, evoking the sort of loyalty and sense of caring that tends to resonate in South Dakota.
For his part, Mr. Dykstra, a social conservative educated at Oral Roberts University, has called Mr. Johnson a ''workman-like, bring-home-the-bacon'' sort of politician.
Democrats here heartily welcome the description. People in some parts of the country might consider earmarks a symbol of waste, but in South Dakota, according to Mr. Jarding, the Johnson aide, ''if we don't get earmarks, we don't have water running to some people's houses.''
Mr. Dykstra's references to Mr. Johnson's health seem to have gained little traction. Among many South Dakotans, even talking about Mr. Johnson's medical history seems out of bounds. Rob Wasilk, a 39-year-old road construction worker, said all that counted was Mr. Johnson's work in the Senate.
''I don't care what Johnson's voice sounds like,'' Mr. Wasilk said. ''His record speaks for itself.''
By historical standards in the Senate, Mr. Johnson could hardly be considered incapacitated. Seniority rules the day, and there is a long tradition of lawmakers remaining in office well into old age and regardless of infirmities.
In 1946, for instance, Senator Arthur Capper, Republican of Kansas, then 81, became chairman of the Agriculture Committee, even though he was almost totally deaf and could not make himself understood. And in the 1940's, Senator Carter Glass, Democrat of Virginia, remained in office even though illness kept him confined to a suite at the Mayflower Hotel.
These days, Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, who will turn 91 next month, always enters the Senate chamber in a wheelchair. And Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has been mostly absent from the Capitol since his brain tumor was diagnosed in May.
When in Washington, Mr. Johnson mostly uses a wheelchair, but he typically walks into the Senate chamber for votes, steadying himself with a cane -- partly a matter of pride, his aides say, and a signal to his colleagues and to C-Span viewers everywhere of his recovery.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff members and well wishers greeted Senator Tim Johnson on Sept. 5, 2007, his first day back on Capitol Hill after a brain hemorrhage in December 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Joel Dean Dykstra, the Republican candidate for the Senate, in Mitchell, S.D. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARSON WALKER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (89%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



958 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Iran Is Job One

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
Until he retired from the State Department earlier this year, Nicholas Burns was, as under secretary of state for political affairs, the lead U.S. negotiator on Iran.
 And how many times, during his three years in this role, did he meet with an Iranian?
 Not once. 
 Burns wasn't allowed to. His presence was supposed to be the reward if the Iranians suspended uranium enrichment and sat down at the table.
 Burns, now 52, joined the State Department in 1980. He's among a generation of U.S. diplomats who have never set foot in Iran, the rising power of the Middle East, even with oil at $70 rather than double that.
 Let me put this bluntly: If we're serious about the Middle East, this has got to change.
 Wall Street has marginalized foreign policy in the U.S. election campaign, but it will return to center stage on Nov. 5. The in-box of the next president will include two intractable wars (Iraq and Afghanistan) and a tight timetable, of perhaps two years, for preventing Iran from securing nuclear weapons capability.
 That's an Iran-dominated agenda. Apart from the nuclear issue, which has tended to override everything, long-term stability in both Iraq and Afghanistan is inconceivable without some Iranian cooperation, as is peace in Lebanon and a resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 On Iran, Barack Obama and John McCain could scarcely be further apart. Obama has said of Iran that, ''For us not to be in a conversation with them doesn't make sense.''
 McCain has sung ''Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran'' to the tune of a Beach Boys number -- a joke, no doubt, but one reflective of the confrontational tone of his foreign policy pronouncements.
 ''Country first,'' the McCain campaign slogan, seems to mean ''Rest of the world last.'' Certainly that's where Sarah Palin, his running mate with a taste for ''pro-America'' parts of the country, places it.
 Burns, like Obama, believes it's time to talk to Iran. ''The U.S. needs to commit to a more ambitious diplomatic strategy,'' he told me. ''We have a responsibility, after Iraq, before we consider the use of force, to demonstrate that every diplomatic avenue has been explored. If they come to the table and balk, we have more leverage over the Chinese and Russians to press for much tougher sanctions.''
 It's time to drop the condition that Iran suspend enrichment before we talk. The condition serves little purpose -- Iran can always resume enrichment -- and has given the mullahs an alibi.
 It's also time -- next year will mark the 30th anniversary of the Iranian revolution -- to rethink the whole U.S. approach to Iran. A good place to start would be getting inside the head of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme Iranian religious leader.
 The Iranian revolution was a religious uprising, but also a nationalist one against U.S. meddling in the country, including the C.I.A.-engineered 1953 coup and support for the shah. Khamenei knows that identification still underwrites his power, and that Iran's leadership of an anti-American front still counts on the Muslim street.
 He also knows how much Iranian power has grown in recent years, through the U.S. removal of its arch-enemy Saddam Hussein in Iraq and the ushering of fellow Shiites to power in Baghdad. He knows that Iranian-backed Hezbollah and Hamas are now entrenched forces. He knows how stretched the U.S. is militarily. He knows how popular the nuclear program is domestically as a symbol of Iran's regional ambitions. And he knows that Israel has the bomb.
 These are realities. They may be unpalatable, but if there's a lesson to the Bush years, it's that dealing in illusions is unhelpful. The cost to Khamenei of a handshake with America is high.
 But Iran also has some shared interests with America -- in preventing a breakup of Iraq, in preventing the return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, in avoiding a violent confrontation of the Sunni and Shia worlds. It wants security, more economic access and, eventually, restored diplomatic relations with the United States.
 All of this says to me: think big. Don't obsess about the nuclear issue, critical as it is. Get everything on the table. Be realistic, as in: We have interests. You have interests. Are there areas in which they coincide?
 Don't lecture. Don't moralize. Don't demand everything -- an end to the nuclear program and terrorism and Lebanese and Gazan interference -- without the means to back such demands. That's been the Bush failure.
 I can already hear the outrage. But Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president at least until elections next year, wants to wipe Israel off the map! He denies the Holocaust! Sunni powers like Saudi Arabia will race for their own bomb unless we take out the Iranian centrifuges!
 To which I say: Focus on today's reality, coldly. Iran does not have nuclear capacity yet. It's time to talk.
 And it's time to find the greatest Americans, irrespective of party, to get that talking going. As Obama has noted: ''We negotiated with Stalin. We negotiated with Mao.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); LEBANON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



959 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: West Pledges $4.5 Billion to Rebuild Georgia

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Western donors in Belgium promised on Wednesday to spend about $4.5 billion to rebuild Georgia, whose economy and infrastructure were badly damaged by this summer's war with Russia. 
 The sum was more than $1 billion more than the World Bank's target, and came as a financial crisis rattled the economies of donor nations. The United States pledged the largest amount, $1 billion over three years. An additional $642.8 million will be allocated by the European Commission over the next two years. 
 Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said the pledge should send ''a strong signal to the world'' that its members stand with Georgia.
 ''The international community believes in and upholds certain values and norms of conduct, and those include the peaceful resolution of disputes,'' Mr. Barroso said. 
 Russia and Georgia clashed briefly in August when, after a crescendo of low-level violence in the separatist enclave of South Ossetia, the Georgian government ordered an assault on the South Ossetian capital, Tskhinvali. Russia, saying it needed to protect civilians, sent columns of troops into South Ossetia and a second breakaway region, Abkhazia, and then took positions deep in Georgian territory. 
 As part of a cease-fire brokered by France, Russia has withdrawn from positions outside South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The two regions have declared independence, but have not been recognized by most of the world. 
 Western countries have harshly condemned Russia's actions, but have taken no steps to punish Russia or force it to withdraw from the two regions. 
 Before the war, Georgia, a country of 4.6 million people, had booming economic prospects, boasting more than 10 percent annual growth, a significant tourist industry and foreign investment that tripled last year to nearly $2 billion. 
 After hostilities broke out on Aug. 7, transportation routes from Georgia's main Black Sea port were cut off, and dozens of importers defaulted on contracts. The stock market plummeted, and Georgians made a run on banks, wiping out $165 million in deposits at the Bank of Georgia. The country's scenic Black Sea resorts, once popular with Russians, sit largely empty. 
 The World Bank had estimated that Georgia would need $3.25 billion ''to cover budget support, social sector support and infrastructure development.'' 
 Most of the aid, roughly $3.7 billion, will go to social and construction programs. An additional $850 million will be invested in the private sector, where donors hope it will offset the sharp drop in foreign direct investment. 
 In remarks before the donors' conference, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the European Union's external relations commissioner, said donors expected Georgia to continue down the path toward democratic reform, and ''will urge Georgia to strive for higher standards.'' In particular, she called for improvement on judicial and financial reform, and media freedom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RESORTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) GEORGIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



960 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Merck Plans to Cut 12% of Work Force as Its Sales and Profit Fall

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Merck, hurt by declining sales of some of its biggest drugs and vaccines, said on Wednesday that it would cut 7,200 more jobs, or more than 12 percent of its work force, its second revamping in three years. 
 While Merck's move is not directly related to the overall financial crisis, the layoffs can only help contribute to what is seen as a coming recession. 
 Besetting Merck is the same issue that has shaken other big drug companies -- the inability to develop new drugs fast enough to maintain rapid growth and to offset the expiring patents that expose big-selling products to an onslaught of generic competition. 
 Merck said on Wednesday that it expected sales to grow only 2 percent to 4 percent a year in the five-year period that ends in 2010, and for earnings to grow by no more than the high single digits. That is lower than previous forecasts and a far cry from the double-digit growth that drug companies once took for granted. 
 Similar troubles have brought cuts at most big pharmaceutical companies. The industry has shed about 100,000 jobs in the last five years, according to Viren Mehta, founder of Mehta Partners, a strategic and investment advisory firm that focuses on the pharmaceutical industry. 
 Merck, which now has 56,700 employees, eliminated 10,400 jobs as part of a reorganization announced in 2005, a year after its Vioxx pain reliever was removed from the market because of safety concerns. 
 Merck shares were down 6.5 percent, to $28.02, on Wednesday.
 The new cuts will take place by the end of 2011 and will involve all areas of the company. About 40 percent of the cuts will come in the United States. The ranks of senior and midlevel executives will be sliced by 25 percent. And three research sites, in Seattle, Japan and Italy, will be closed by the end of 2009. 
 The moves are meant to save the company $3.8 billion to $4.2 billion in operating costs through 2013. But they will also cost the company $1.6 billion to $2 billion in severance pay and other reorganization charges. 
 Merck's chief executive, Richard T. Clark, said on Wednesday that the overhaul was part of an effort to position Merck for the future -- not a response to particular problems in 2008. 
 Merck is trying to reduce its reliance on huge sales forces that bombard doctors. It wants to speed innovation by consolidating research on particular diseases in single locations. And it plans to outsource more manufacturing. 
 ''If you don't change these business models, we're not going to survive as an industry, let alone a company,'' Mr. Clark told analysts on a conference call. 
 But Merck has plenty of specific problems that hurt its third-quarter financial results, also announced on Wednesday. Sales of Fosamax, its osteoporosis drug, plunged 51 percent in the quarter because it lost patent protection. 
 Sales of the cholesterol-lowering drugs Vytorin and Zetia, which are marketed by a joint venture with Schering-Plough, dropped 15 percent worldwide in the quarter, to $1.1 billion, compared with the same period a year ago. The decline came after studies showed that Vytorin was no more effective than a generic statin in stopping the buildup of fatty plaques in arteries and might pose a cancer risk. 
 Sales of the asthma and allergy drug Singulair, the biggest drug Merck sells by itself, increased only 1 percent, to $1 billion, after the Food and Drug Administration said in March that it was looking into whether the drug might increase the risk of suicides. 
 Merck also had setbacks in its vaccine division, which had been a bright spot for the company. 
 Sales of Gardasil, the cervical cancer vaccine, were $401 million for the quarter, a decrease of 4 percent, as questions arose over the vaccine's necessity, cost and safety, and Merck's marketing tactics. 
 On the positive side, sales of Januvia, a diabetes drug, and Isentress, a new AIDS drug, did well. 
 Over all, Merck's earnings fell to 51 cents a share, from 70 cents a year ago, largely because of reorganization charges. Excluding those and other items, the earnings were 80 cents a share, compared with 75 cents a year ago. Merck said its earning for the year would be at the low end of previous guidance. 
 Merck is also planning to move more aggressively into biotechnology drugs, which are made in living cells. These represent some of the industry's biggest sellers and, for regulatory and scientific reasons, are not subject to the same rapid onslaught of generic competition as pills made from chemicals. 
 Merck has been slower than some of its competitors in moving into biotechnology. But Mr. Clark said Merck aimed to be a leader in that field, suggesting that it planned to make drugs similar to big sellers like Epogen and Neupogen, both from Amgen, which bolster blood cells. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard T. Clark, the chief executive of Merck, said on Wednesday that the company wanted to expand its biotechnology work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BERRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); VACCINES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OSTEOPOROSIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); SALES FORCE (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); PATENTS (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



961 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: A Push for Bailout Money to Help Car Buyers

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Michigan's Congressional delegation is urging the Treasury secretary and the Federal Reserve chairman to use their authority as part of the $700 billion bailout package to help more consumers obtain car loans, warning that the tightened credit markets were endangering millions of jobs. 
 The effort, led by Representatives John D. Dingell, a Democrat, and Fred Upton, a Republican, comes amid plunging vehicle sales as auto lenders struggle to find financing. 
 In addition, two of Detroit's automakers, General Motors and Chrysler, are considering a merger to combine their cash reserves and cut costs.
 ''In this current economic environment, it is imperative that the government ensures that liquidity is restored so that the U.S. auto industry is able to function until normalcy is restored to credit markets,'' the lawmakers say in a draft of a letter to the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that was obtained by The New York Times.
 Automakers say that a lack of financing has compounded a weakened economy and kept consumers out of showrooms. The industry says that more than 90 percent of new-vehicle purchases are financed.
 As of late Wednesday, all but three of Michigan's 17-member delegation had signed the letter, and the others are expected to join as well, according to a person involved in the effort, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the letter was not intended to become public until Thursday.
 ''It's time for the Bush administration to finally step up and aid the auto industry,'' Representative Joe Knollenberg, a Republican, said in a statement. ''I spoke to Secretary Paulson personally about using these new powers to restore liquidity in the automotive sector. Now is the time for action. The domestic auto industry can't wait any longer.''
 The letter says that one in 10 jobs in the United States depends on the auto industry, asserting that ''there is no single segment of America's economy that is more critical to the financial well-being of millions of Americans.''
 Vehicle sales in the United States fell 26.6 percent in September, a 15-year low. 
 Early statistics show that sales have been at least as poor in October. One analyst predicted that sales this month would reach the lowest level since 1983.
 G.M. began running ads last week assuring consumers that they could still receive credit after its financing arm, the GMAC, said it would offer loans only to buyers with credit scores of at least 700. 
 The president of the California New Car Dealers Association, Peter K. Welch, warned that the move by GMAC, which handles financing for nearly half of G.M. sales, would force some dealerships out of business.
 Congress approved $25 billion last month for government-backed loans to help automakers build more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 The automakers, with the support of Michigan lawmakers, are pressing for quicker access to the loans, along with more money later, given that demand for vehicles with better fuel efficiency has soared since the loan program was created as part of an energy bill passed in December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); MERGERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); STATISTICS (66%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); JOE KNOLLENBERG (58%); FRED UPTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



962 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Fox News Is Digging Deep to Field an All-Star Lineup

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
WITH the re-signing this week of Bill O'Reilly, the most successful host in cable news, to a four-year deal worth more than $10 million a year, the Fox News Channel is starting to resemble the New York Yankees. 
 The channel has sewn up a full lineup of politically outspoken heavy hitters, and the salaries have been eye-popping. Last November, Shepard Smith, the channel's main news anchor, landed a deal worth a reported $8 million a year; earlier this month, Sean Hannity signed on with Fox News until 2012 in what was described as a multimillion-dollar deal. And the channel scored a coup when it lured another conservative voice, Glenn Beck, from CNN's Headline News, with another multiyear, multimillion-dollar contract. 
 Now all Fox News has to do is pay for all that.
 A chunk of that cash will be expected to come from advertising, and that's where Fox might have some cause for worry. Not only is the television news business anticipating a falloff in ads after the intense surge that has accompanied the presidential election this year, but the stumbling national economy, which has pounded many reliable television advertisers -- auto companies, for example -- is now expected to cut deeply into ad revenue all over television in the next year.
 Robert J. Coen, the Magna Global senior executive known for his forecasts of advertising trends (his title is ''chief forecaster''), said of the climate for television advertising: ''It doesn't look like it's going to be very good for a long time.'' 
 Some of Fox's rivals and critics also wonder whether the channel is taking a calculated risk with its star-signing spree. Their wishful-thinking analysis: maybe Fox's longtime ratings dominance could be in jeopardy if polls are right and the Republican rule that many of the channel's hosts enthusiastically supported were supplanted by a Democratic candidate they have loudly opposed.
 But several independent analysts say Fox's prospects depend on the economy, not the vote. 
 John Rash, the director of media analysis for the Campbell Mithun ad agency, said that, whatever the result of the election on Nov. 4, Fox will keep a healthy portion of its viewership. 
 ''The electorate has been electrified by this campaign,'' Mr. Rash said. ''I think interest is going to carry over into the subsequent governance. I don't think the falloff will be as dramatic as in some previous elections.''
 He estimated that advertising would shrink, because ''advertising investment is a reflection of the macroeconomy.'' But he said, ''There will still be support for all three cable news networks.'' 
 And Fox recently completed a lucrative series of renegotiations with cable systems for carriage fees, said Andrew Tyndall, who analyzes television news for his Tyndall Report.
 ''They originally signed them at a rather low price,'' he said. It was a reported 28 cents for each subscriber. The new deals are for well above that -- from 75 cents to as much as $1 a subscriber each month. Fox has 94 million subscribers. ''So they're awash with money,'' Mr. Tyndall said -- meaning Fox News may not need to match its current ad revenue levels to pay for its stars. 
 As for fears of change in Washington, both Mr. Rash and Mr. Tyndall said that would more likely represent opportunity for Fox News. ''The Fox style of aggressive commentary works best in opposition,'' Mr. Tyndall said. 
 ''Opposition media can be sharper-edged,'' Mr. Rash said, a style, he said, that has played well not just for Fox News, beginning when it first exploded in popularity during the Clinton years, but also for MSNBC, which has found a voice and growing audience in aggressively taking on the Bush administration.
 Coincidentally, on Tuesday night, MSNBC scored its best night ever in prime time, finishing first among the news networks in the audience group that most news advertisers seek, adults from 25 to 54 years old. Three of the MSNBC hosts -- Keith Olbermann, Chris Matthews and Rachel Maddow -- won in that audience group, with Mr. Olbermann scoring his highest number ever and beating Mr. O'Reilly by the largest margin ever in that group, 935,000 viewers to 742,000.
 Mr. O'Reilly still dominated among total viewers, with 3.4 million to 2.2 million for Mr. Olbermann. But Mr. Tyndall said figures like that pointed to a potential vulnerability for Fox News.
 ''Their audience is quite old,'' he said. ''What I really worry about with Fox News is that the format is getting really stale. They've had the same lineup for more than five years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill O'Reilly interviewed Karl Rove for the Fox News Channel's coverage of the Republican National Convention in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BASEBALL (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (68%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (88%); GLENN BECK (58%); KARL ROVE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



963 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Referendum Pushed For Term-Limit Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and FERNANDA SANTOS; Sewell Chan and Jonathan P. Hicks contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Saying they valued both sides of the debate over Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's bid to change the term limits law to allow him to run again, three City Council members said on Wednesday that they would introduce a measure requiring that any revisions be achieved through a public referendum, not legislation.
 If the measure is successful, it would essentially nullify the bill supported by the mayor, which requires only Council approval for the term-limit changes to take effect. The council members' measure would amend the mayor's bill, which is expected to come up for a vote on Thursday, and require that a charter review commission be created to push for a referendum that could be held as early as February. 
 The three members -- David Yassky of Brooklyn and Alan J. Gerson and Gale A. Brewer of Manhattan -- said they concurred with Mr. Bloomberg's assessment that the global financial crisis required continuity in municipal government, and that changing term limits to three four-year terms from two for the mayor and Council on a one-time basis was in the city's best interest. 
 But they rejected the mayor's contention that legislation was the best way to achieve that goal, saying that a referendum would better reflect the wishes of most New Yorkers. ''We think this has a chance, a good chance,'' Mr. Gerson said during a news conference on the City Hall steps. Whether Mr. Gerson was being overly optimistic remains to be seen. Administration officials said they were confident that the amendment would fail. Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, who supports the mayor's bill and has been lobbying her colleagues furiously behind the scenes, said much the same. 
 ''I am very optimistic that the mayor's bill will pass in the Council tomorrow,'' she said at an event on Staten Island.
 But one of the bill's most ardent critics, the Working Families Party, praised the amendment. And a few council members and lobbyists contended that it had a fair shot at passage. ''I think it's 50-50 at this point,'' said one council member who supports the amendment.
 The three council members must introduce the measure in the form of an amendment because copies of the mayor's bill have already been printed. 
 On Thursday morning, the mayor's bill will first be taken up by the Government Operations Committee, which held two marathon days of public hearings last week. If the bill clears the committee, as expected, it will go before the full Council in the afternoon. But under the Council's rules, the amendment must be considered first, by the full Council. 
 If the amendment passes, it would represent an embarrassing political setback for Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Quinn, who, as close allies, have successfully persuaded council members on issue after issue. 
 If it fails, then the Council will vote on the mayor's bill, and the expectation on Wednesday night was that Mr. Bloomberg would ultimately prevail, albeit by a small margin.
 The unexpected amendment added to a chaotic day of lobbying and last-minute twists in the term-limits fight, as both sides scrambled to gain any advantage, however slim.
 In State Supreme Court in Manhattan, city officials won a round when Justice Jacqueline Winter Silbermann rejected a petition filed by two council members attempting to block the Council's vote. The petition asked the court to reverse a ruling by the city's Conflicts of Interest Board last week allowing council members to modify, extend or abolish term limits even if they directly benefit from the change. 
 The two council members -- Bill de Blasio and Letitia James, both of Brooklyn -- had argued that the public deserved to have an independent body decide whether it was a conflict of interest for council members to essentially determine their own political destiny. But the city argued that council members are merely being asked to make a tough decision, which is their job. 
 Justice Silbermann accepted the city's argument, saying that council members could always vote no or abstain. But Randy M. Mastro, a deputy mayor in the Giuliani administration who is representing Mr. de Blasio and Ms. James, hinted that more legal action could be in the works.
 ''This is not the end of a process,'' Mr. Mastro said. ''This is the beginning of a process.''
 Meanwhile, three other council members removed themselves from the dwindling list of undecideds. Jessica S. Lappin of Manhattan and Michael E. McMahon, who is the Democratic nominee for a Congressional seat on Staten Island, said they would oppose the bill, while Sara M. Gonzalez of Brooklyn said she would support it.
 In an interview, Ms. Lappin said, ''Even though I oppose term limits, I think it's very important to respect the will of the people.'' 
 Mr. McMahon's vote came as a surprise. His brother Thomas, a prominent lobbyist, is married to Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs, and the councilman has been a close ally of the mayor.
 As it stands now, 18 members say they support the mayor's bill, 23 say they oppose it and 10 are undecided.
 Mr. Yassky, Mr. Gerson and Ms. Brewer are among the 11 who are undecided. But the conventional wisdom is that if their amendment fails, they will ultimately vote for the bill -- even though they said during the news conference that they had not yet made up their minds.
 Small wonder, then, that several reporters asked the three a variation on the same question: Is their amendment simply a fig leaf to allow them to say that they tried to stop the mayor's bill, before ultimately voting for it?
 ''Absolutely not,'' Mr. Yassky said.
 That, however, did not impress Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a good-government group that has been critical of Mr. Bloomberg's maneuvers.
 ''It is kind of like a John Kerry position,'' said Mr. Dadey, who appeared at his own news conference, in almost the same spot, just an hour earlier. 
 ''If they vote for the amendment and then vote for the bill without the amendment, it will be seen as a crass political move intended to provide them cover in voting to extend term limits,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); REFERENDUMS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



964 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2304 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, October 23, 2008

 BODY:
International
 RUSSIA BACKS AN EXTENSION
 Of U.S. Presence in Iraq
 With the prospects for a new security agreement between America and Iraq in doubt, a possibility of allowing United States troops to stay in the country under a United Nations mandate has resurfaced. Despite speculation that Russia might veto such a plan, the Russian foreign minister told reporters that the country would support it. page A10 
 RICE VISITS MEXICO ON DRUG WAR
 Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice's has logged extensive time dealing with wars in Middle Eastern deserts. On Wednesday she was dispatched to one a bit closer to home, this one involving Mexico's heavily armed and vicious drug cartels. The two-day meeting in Puerto Vallarta, is intended to curb what is seen by the Bush Administration as a serious threat to American security. Mexico had sought the high-level visit in hopes of greater coordination with the United States. Page A8 
 WEST PLEDGES TO REBUILD GEORGIA
 Western donors in Belgium promised about $4.5 billion to rebuild Georgia's economy and infrastructure after the war with Russia this summer. The amount was $1 billion more than what the World Bank's goal and comes just as the financial crisis grips the rest of Europe and the United States. The United States was the largest donor, promising $1 billion over the next three years. Page A12 
 REFUGEE HOMES NEAR COMPLETION
 At a speed that shocked international aid workers, Georgia is close to completing 7,000 winterized houses for refugees from South Ossetia who cannot return to their homes. President Mikheil Saakashvili has promised that all 31,000 refugees will have a new home by Dec. 15. While the project was swifter than many similar efforts, the homes were described by one refugee as poultry incubators, and many people expected they would spend just months in the houses, not years. Page A12 
 COALITION AIRSTRIKE KILLS 9 SOLDIERS
 A coalition airstrike in Afghanistan that killed nine Afghan Army soldiers might have been a case of mutually mistaken identity, the United States-led military coalition said. The airstrike hit the top of a hill, in the background above, in Khost Province, in eastern Afghanistan. Page A10 
 AZERBAIJAN IN THE MIDDLE
 Azerbaijan has walked a middle path between the West and Russia ever since it won its independence from the Soviet Union. Russia's recent actions in Georgia and its humiliation of Tbilisi and its sponsor, the United States, were a sobering sight for former Soviet states. Smaller countries like Azerbaijan may have to reconfigure their policies, especially concerning energy. Page A14 
 National
 CONCERNS ABOUT SENATOR'S HEALTH PUT DELICATE TOPIC INTO CAMPAIGN
 Senator Tim Johnson of South Dakota speaks slowly and haltingly and spends much of his time in a wheelchair. As he seeks re-election after battling back from a brain hemorrhage nearly two years ago, questions about his health -- until now largely off limits and deemed unseemly -- are being raised by his Republican opponent. It is delicate territory, but some voters say they fret that Mr. Johnson's health problems could shortchange South Dakota in Washington. PAGE A16 
 OBAMA CHIDES BIDEN OVER REMARK
 Senator Barack Obama gently reprimanded his vice-presidential candidate, Joseph R. Biden Jr., as he sought to sweep aside a dustup Mr. Biden touched off when he predicted that a world crisis would test Mr. Obama during his first six months in office. PAGE A22
 DASHED HOPES FOR LATINO SUPPORT
 Early in the presidential campaign, Senator John McCain seemed to be in a good position to win support among Hispanic voters. He had sponsored legislation for a comprehensive immigration overhaul in Congress and was popular among Latinos in his home state of Arizona, which borders three battleground states. But less than two weeks before Election Day, those advantages appear to have evaporated. Recent Gallup polls show Mr. McCain running far behind Senator Barack Obama among Hispanic voters nationwide. PAGE A23 
 SENATE LEADER'S PORK-BARREL PUNCH
 Working to hold on to his job, Senator Mitch McConnell is counting on voters to express their gratitude for the federal largess he has spread around Kentucky as the Senate Republican leader. He is fending off an unexpectedly strong challenge from Bruce Lunsford, a Democratic businessman with rural roots and a fortune. Mr. McConnell remains favored to win re-election, but polls show that the economic turmoil has made that prospect less than inevitable. PAGE A25 
 Obituaries
 PAT KAVANAGH, 68
 A British literary agent, she wrapped business acumen and hauteur about herself, spiking it with a touch of mystery. It was this quality that kept a string of distinguished writers and publishers fascinated. Page B14
 PETER VANSITTART, 88
 With a flair for the melding of myth, history and modern concerns, he exhaled a breath of new life into the historical novel. Writing in a much-abused genre, Mr. Vansittart played havoc with the centuries, roaming where he pleased and injecting a cynical tone and tongue, forsaking ''forsooth,'' if you will. Page B14
 Business
 WORKERS AT CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 
 Testify to Conflict of Interest
 The failure of credit rating agencies to assess the risks of mortgage-backed securities was not a failure, but a conflict of interest, said two former high-ranked employees of Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's in a Congressional hearing. Those agencies are paid by securities issuers to give those ratings, not by investors consulting those ratings. page B1 
 AMAZON CAUTIOUS DESPITE PROFITS
 Amazon, at least, can report a hopeful glimmer in all this economic gloom and doom. The company, an e-commerce giant, posted strong earnings, with a third-quarter profit of 48 percent above the period a year ago. But the company also reduced its fourth-quarter projected revenue, a sign it is not totally immune. Page B4 
 WHAT BONDS APPLE AND AT&T?
 Apple's alliance with AT&T on the sale of iPhones comes at a price: $900 million. AT&T was surprised by the figure, which it must pay to Apple for the phones, and it had not anticipated such demand. The service provider plans to recoup the money on text messages and Internet use, two things that owners of smartphones like the iPhone use a good deal more than other cell phone owners. Page B2 
 BOEING PROFITS HURT BY STRIKE
 The Boeing Company has announced an effect of a seven-week strike with its machinists' union: its third-quarter earnings dropped a staggering 38 percent. The number reflects both the strike and other production issues. Talks with the union are expected to resume on Thursday, and the company hopes to resolve a dispute that caused the walkout on Sept. 6. Page B10 
 BACKING IT UP JUST GOT EASIER
 Back it up -- practically a mantra for the tech-savvy. Now do it online. Services like Mozy and Carbonite offer space, sometimes unlimited, for a monthly price. Simply make sure your computer has access to the Internet at a given time, and the only space you need to worry about is the one on your credit card. And, with so many options cropping up, it's even easier to find services tailored to specific storage needs. Page B7 
 New York
 SOME WHO SECURED HEATING COSTS
 May Wish That They'd Waited
 The shrinking prices of oil and gas have consistently been a bright spot during the financial crisis. For some. Others, who tried to outsmart the market by locking in prices this summer when the rates peaked, may wind up paying far more this winter than their neighbors. page A27 
 Retirement
 REALITIES OF PREPARING FOR THEN
 When All the Focus Is on Now
 As baby boomers watch their parents grow old, they are sparing little thought for their own futures, a fact that experts say deserves some attention. The economy has created a kind of immediacy that doesn't offer much respite to look ahead. Since Medicaid has tightened its rules, two main options are left: pay cash or buy long-term care insurance, which can pay for things like nursing homes, assisted living facilities and home health aides. Page F2 
 THINKING OUTSIDE THE I.R.A. BOX
 With the economy taking a crowbar to the stock market and returns on I.R.A. portfolios, many people are looking for alternative ways to fatten their wallets back up. Investments in real estate or small businesses can help regain lost cash. Just watch out for legal snares like the regulation on self-dealing that prevents I.R.A. owners from making investments that benefit themselves or a member of their family directly. Page F6 
 AFTER THE OFFICE, INTO THE WILD
 Men and women in their 50s, 60s and 70s are flocking in increasing numbers to volunteer at state and national parks after careers spent in hectic jobs. They perform services like jump-starting dead car batteries and even delivering interoffice mail. While some claim the volunteers take away potential jobs, the volunteers do help bolster an industry with tightening budgets and limited resources. Page F10 
 arts
 AFTER A RETREAT FROM THE SPOTLIGHT,
 A New Avenue for Eminem
 After the release of his last album four years ago, Eminem, one of the best-selling rappers in history, essentially disappeared. With his new book, ''The Way I Am,'' he is stepping into public life again and hopes to clear up some of the misunderstandings about him. The book is a handsome midcareer (and midlife) roundup for an artist who has been notoriously reticent to discuss his personal life in any place but his music, Jon Caramanica writes. PAGE C1
 MURDOCH DISPUTES BIOGRAPHY
 With about six weeks to go before publication, a book about Rupert Murdoch's career and family is causing a row. After agreeing to cooperate with Michael Wolff, a columnist at Vanity Fair and a longtime chronicler of the media scene, Mr. Murdoch has raised objections with Mr. Wolff and his publisher about portions of the book. But of course, controversy has been known to spur book sales. PAGE C1
 Channeling Don Quixote C3
 Style
 IGNORING THE PLUNGING STOCKS,
 Watching the Spoiled at Play
 Reason would dictate that as economic conditions get grittier, the less we'd want to watch the rich at spoiled play. Ratings say otherwise, as they spike on media offerings like ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' and the new ''90210.'' Page E1 
 PUTTING YOUR CHILDREN SECOND
 Financial advisers have changed tunes on all sorts of topics, and in this case, it's college tuition. For parents, it used to be save for college first, and retirement second. Now it's the other way around. The rationale? Your kids are younger, they'll have more years to shoulder and pay down that debt, Michelle Slatalla writes. Page E3 
 Home
 AT LA CASA DE LOS COLORES,
 A Riot of Theory and Pigment
 There is a house in La Cieneguita, Mexico, and if it's not called the rising sun, that's because the color inside is even more vibrant. Every surface is decorated or colored. A mural on the side depicts a combination of La Virgin de Guadalupe and Ganesh, the Hindu deity. As its owner, Anado McLauchlin, puts it, the palette is: ''no rules.'' Page D1 
 PREPARING FOR A LONG SIEGE
 Sans the knights, horses and boiling oil, this winter brings with it tiny, uninvited guests, and they're eyeballing that crack under the porch as we speak. Experts like Knockout Pest Control and the environmental health inspector for the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources offer suggestions on prevention. Page D2 
 Sports
 DOUBLE-BARRELLED CHANCE 
 To Exult in Clearwater
 When Tampa Bay defeated Boston, performing a turnaround from subject of American League ridicule to champion, there was a pocket of Phillies fans smack dab in Rays territory. Some could not believe their fortune: the Phillies and the Rays would be squaring off in the World Series -- fans of both would reap the joy of a win either way. Page B16 
 SWIFTLY INTO THE WIND
 Richard Branson, chairman of the Virgin Group of companies, and the crew of the Virgin Money, the 99-foot maxi yacht, scrambled to make final adjustments in hopes of a record-breaking sail from Battery Park City to Lizard Point, the southernmost tip of Britain. Mr. Branson, above, kissing his wife before leaving port, is trying to break the current record of 6 days 17 hours 39 minutes and 52 seconds. Page B19 
 Editorial
 I CAN'T FIND YOUR NAME
 Voting rolls, which are maintained by local election officials, are one of the weakest links in American democracy, and problems are growing. Some of them are no doubt the result of honest mistakes, but in far too many cases, they appear to be driven by partisanship. PAGE A36
 TERM LIMITS AND NEW YORK
 Barring last-minute complications, the City Council will vote Thursday on a proposal to allow the mayor and most of the city's elected officials to run for third four-year terms. We urge the Council to approve it. PAGE A36
 POROUS DEFENSES
 As the country races to open more labs to develop vaccines and treatments for exotic diseases and potential biological weapons, the government has a lot more work to do to ensure that dangerous materials cannot fall into terrorists' hands. PAGE A36
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Right now, all the polls predict than in less than two weeks, Barack Obama is going to be elected president. The McCain campaign disputes this. Large numbers of Obama supporters are also in doubt. PAGE A37
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 Barack Obama's political success could change global perceptions of the United States, redefining the American brand. PAGE A37
 FROM BEIRUT TO 9/11
 In Op-Ed articles marking the 25th anniversary of the bombing of the Marine barracks in Lebanon, Robert C. McFarlane, a former national security adviser, and Randy Gaddo, a former Marine staff sergeant who survived the blast, describe how America's actions in 1983 emboldened Islamic terrorists. PAGE A37

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); VETO (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); CARTELS (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POULTRY (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); TIM JOHNSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); GEORGIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (94%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



965 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: A Senate Leader's Pork-Barrel Punch

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: OWENSBORO, Ky. 

 BODY:
Senator Mitch McConnell has certainly delivered for this western Kentucky community, where an esplanade called McConnell Plaza wends along the Ohio River waterfront, which is being spruced up with government help. 
 At a time when home-state projects sought by lawmakers are being condemned by Senator John McCain and others, Mr. McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, boasts in a series of campaign advertisements about how he has showered federal money on towns, airports and universities in Kentucky, like the nearly $60 million he won for the face-lift for downtown Owensboro.
 Besides the money for Owensboro and $10 million for the waterfront of a nearby town, Mr. McConnell, a savvy veteran of the Appropriations Committee, secured $3 million for a community youth center in Owensboro and snared the final $10 million to finish an impressive Ohio River bridge linking the area to the Interstate 64 corridor. 
 ''He has brought a lot to Owensboro,'' said Vickie Poteat, who promised Mr. McConnell her support as the four-term senator worked a welcoming weekend crowd at Owensboro's annual apple festival, a family-friendly and calorie-laden event at Reid's Orchard on the outskirts of town. 
 Now, working to hold on to his job in what is shaping up as a bad year for Republicans, Mr. McConnell is counting on voters to express their gratitude for the federal largess as he tries to fend off a spirited challenge from Bruce Lunsford, a Democratic businessman with rural roots and a fortune made in health care.
 ''The biggest issue in this race is whether or not our small state is going to continue to have a person of significant clout in Washington or whether we are to trade that person in for a rookie,'' said Mr. McConnell, slightly dressed down for the festival in a barn jacket with a leather collar and ''Mitch'' stitched on its front. He was accompanied by his wife, Elaine L. Chao, the labor secretary and only remaining member of the original Bush cabinet.
 Mr. McConnell's focus on federal aid illustrates how he and other lawmakers view such legislative earmarks as valuable political currency back home despite their increasingly bad name in Washington. It also shows that in the current hostile environment, Mr. McConnell has decided to focus less on overarching policy issues than on old-fashioned pork.
 His opponent, who is pushing a ''Ditch Mitch'' theme, says it is with good reason. Mr. McConnell may sprinkle money around the state, but the Lunsford campaign calculated it at about $30 per capita last year, an amount the Democrat labels ''chump change.'' Mr. Lunsford says the Republican leader has teamed with President Bush to create an economic catastrophe and block health and tax policies more valuable to Kentuckians over the long haul than a few local projects.
 ''Those two together have brought an economic crisis in this country that we haven't seen since the Great Depression,'' Mr. Lunsford told a crowd at the Broughtontown Community Center outside Crab Orchard in Lincoln County. ''They had their chance.''
 Mr. McConnell remains favored to win re-election, but polls show the economic turmoil has created an unexpected opportunity for Mr. Lunsford, who was unsuccessful in two campaigns for governor of Kentucky. Democrats would sorely like to knock off the man they see as a main roadblock in the Senate.
 Even if he prevails, Mr. McConnell will almost certainly preside over thinned Republican ranks in the Senate, where Democrats expect to pick up five or more seats. And he concedes his own race is no breeze. 
 ''This isn't going to be a landslide,'' Mr. McConnell said wryly, fondly remembering his easy victory six years ago. ''The president is not popular, the economy is certainly slow, and it is a much more contested environment.''
 And much of that contest in Kentucky has been waged over the airwaves, where both candidates have spent millions of dollars on tough attack advertisements that are broadcast frequently and have irritated voters with their harsh tone.
 ''If you listen to the campaign ads, ain't neither one of them worth going up there,'' said Dennis Young of Hartford, a Vietnam veteran sampling apple festival wares that included homespun crafts, fried apple pie and piles of barbecue. He said he received a strong dose of the commercials while watching television during recovery from surgery recently and came away undecided on his Senate choice.
 Mr. Lunsford has hit Mr. McConnell for ties to special interests and rewarding campaign contributors, first making the accusation that Mr. McConnell was too close to the oil industry when gas prices were climbing this summer. He then turned his commercials to the economic crisis and Mr. McConnell's support of deregulation, the $700 billion bailout and his millions in contributions from Wall Street. 
 In the closing weeks of the race, the two men have brawled via television not over the economy or the Iraq war, but over the quality of care provided at a chain of private clinics with ties to Mr. Lunsford that serve veterans in several states.
 Mr. McConnell, who has a reputation for playing hardball, has run a series of 60-second spots that give voice to complaints about the care at the chain, Valor Healthcare clinics, with veterans, family members and former government officials asserting that poor care was delivered to wring more profits for the company. Mr. Lunsford is on the company's board and served temporarily as an executive.
 The McConnell campaign calculated that such criticism would resonate in a state with the military traditions of Kentucky and, in a memorandum to Mr. McConnell, his campaign's pollster said the advertisements had raised negative perceptions of his opponent among voters and cut into his support.
 Mr. Lunsford answered with advertisements disputing the claims and branding Mr. McConnell as desperate for using that line of attack. The campaign produced praise for the clinics from health care officials and highlighted one veteran who said the McConnell campaign had distorted his earlier remarks for political gain. Mr. Lunsford also said that his relationship to the company was modest, and that he mainly helped it when it was getting started.
 His campaign brought former Senator Max Cleland of Georgia to Kentucky to counter the McConnell campaign's accusations. Mr. Cleland, a disabled Vietnam veteran who headed the Veterans Administration in the Carter administration, described the criticism of Mr. Lunsford as ''bullfeathers'' and declared, ''That is all Mitch McConnell has.''
 Former President Bill Clinton is to campaign for Mr. Lunsford this week. Mr. McConnell, who pointed out that he is only the second Congressional leader in history from Kentucky, says that he has seniority and the ability to provide for Kentucky and that he hopes voters take that into consideration.
 Even backers of Mr. Lunsford acknowledge that defeating Mr. McConnell is an uphill climb.
 ''It will be a miracle if Bruce can pull it off,'' said Buckwheat Gilbert, the Lincoln County executive. ''But Mitch has been there too long. He has forgotten where he came from.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell, at the Owensboro, Ky., apple festival. He is favored to win re-election but with the economic crisis, his opponent, Bruce Lunsford, left, at a weekend festival in Mount Sterling, Ky., has seen his chances get better. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT BARTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: ADVANTAGE, KENTUCKIANS: Kentucky's surplus of federal spending over federal taxes has steadily increased during Senator Mitch McConnell's tenure, rising from 20th among the states in 1984, the year he was elected, to ninth by 2005. It took off after the Bush tax cuts in 2001, as federal spending in the state continued to climb even as taxes dropped. (Source: Tax Foundation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FESTIVALS (87%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); FAMILY (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); ELAINE CHAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OWENSBORO, KY, USA (96%) KENTUCKY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



966 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Drop 38% at Boeing as a Machinists' Strike Wears On

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, which was struck seven weeks ago by the union representing its machinists, said Wednesday that its third-quarter net income dropped 38 percent because of the strike and other production issues.
 Talks with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers are scheduled to resume Thursday in an effort to resolve the walkout, which began Sept. 6. 
 Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., speaking to analysts Wednesday after Boeing's first quarterly results since the strike, said he was optimistic a deal could be reached soon, based on informal conversations with union leaders. But he said an unresolved major issue was the subject of ''management rights.'' 
 Mr. McNerney emphasized that Boeing, which increasingly has sent work on its planes to outside contractors, needed to keep its flexibility, particularly in light of the global financial crisis.
 ''The turmoil in the financial markets provides a timely reminder of why it would be unwise for us to agree to terms in any contract that would restrict our ability to manage our business and respond quickly to market dynamics and global customer needs,'' Mr. McNerney said. ''Jobs in today's global economy are created and sustained only through productivity improvements and customer-focused innovation.''
 Reflecting that turmoil, Boeing said it might have to finance the delivery of some airplanes in 2009 because of tight credit markets. It has not financed planes since 2006. It said it had made commitments to provide backup financing for 3 percent of its airplane deliveries through the end of the next decade. 
 For the third quarter, Boeing said its net income fell to $695 million, or 96 cents a share, compared with $1.1 billion, or $1.44 a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 Analysts had expected Boeing to post better results. Its shares were down 5.6 percent.
 Revenue fell 7 percent, to $15.2 billion. Boeing also said it had negative operating cash flow of $442 million during the quarter, reflecting the effect that the strike has had on aircraft deliveries. In the quarter last year, its operating cash flow was $3.3 billion. Boeing said the strike had reduced its airplane deliveries by 35 jets but said it had a record backlog of $349 billion in jet orders.
 Aside from the strike, the company said its earnings also dropped because of a delay in production of some of its largest planes. It said work on them was held up by a shortage of galleys, the area in the plane where flight attendants prepare beverages and meals. 
 Boeing halted all its airplane production after the strike by the machinists union, which represents 27,000 workers in Washington State, Oregon and Kansas.
 In a bulletin to union members Wednesday, Tom Wroblewski, the president of Machinists Union District 751, said it would have been a better business decision for Boeing to reach a deal with the union. 
 ''Customers want their planes, shareholders want their value, and our members want to get back to building the best airplanes in the world,'' Mr. Wroblewski said.
 Labor experts say the strike is a key moment for the union, whose members at Boeing fell as low as about 19,000 when orders for aircraft plummeted after the September 2001 attacks. The union is trying to gain jobs as Boeing is sending more work outside the United States, especially on its new 787 jet, the Dreamliner. 
 Development of the plane, already more than a year late, has continued despite the strike. But Boeing has said the walkout could push back the first test flight of the Dreamliner, which was scheduled to take place this quarter. 
 Mr. McNerney did not give a specific update. But he said work on all Boeing aircraft, including the Dreamliner, would be delayed on a ''day for day'' basis because of the strike, which has lasted 47 days so far. Given that, it appears likely that the first test flight will be pushed back to next year.
 But Mr. McNerney said he had not soured on the company's union-represented work force.
 ''Notwithstanding the strike, and not withstanding the frustration on behalf of our customers, the workers in Puget Sound represented by the I.A.M. are very fine workers,'' Mr. McNerney said. ''I'm anxious to get them back to work. They can compete for any work that we've got.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing worker on a picket line Wednesday. The mock tombstone represents the end of lean economic times at the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



967 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2698 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Split on U.S. Power, But Ideas Defy Easy Labels

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- John McCain has said his worldview was formed in the Hanoi Hilton, the jail where as a prisoner of war he learned to stand up to his country's enemies and lost any youthful naivete about what happens when America shows weakness.
Barack Obama has written that his views began to take shape in the back streets of Jakarta, where he lived as a young boy and saw the poverty, the human rights violations and the fear inspired by the American-backed Indonesian dictator Suharto.
It was there, Mr. Obama wrote in his second autobiography, that he first absorbed the ''jumble of warring impulses'' that make up American foreign policy, and received a street-level understanding of how foreigners react to ''our tireless promotion of American-style capitalism'' and to Washington's ''tolerance and occasional encouragement of tyranny, corruption and environmental degradation.''
As the campaigns tell the story, those radically different experiences in different corners of Southeast Asia have created two men with sharply different views about the proper use of American power. 
Mr. McCain's campaign portrays him as an experienced warrior who knows how to win wars and carries Theodore Roosevelt's big stick, even if he occasionally strays from Roosevelt's advice about speaking softly. Mr. Obama's campaign portrays him as a cerebral advocate of patient diplomacy, the antidote to the unilateral excesses of the Bush years, who knows how to build partnerships without surrendering American interests.
But as the campaign has unfolded, both men have been forced into surprising detours. They may have formed their worldviews in Hanoi and Jakarta, but they forged specific positions amid the realities of an election in post-Iraq, post-crash America -- where judgment sometimes collides with political expediency.
The result has included contradictions that do not fit the neat hawk-and-dove images promoted by each campaign. As spelled out in presidential debates, in written answers provided by their campaigns, and in an interview with Mr. McCain in January, some of their views appear as messy and unpredictable as the troubles one of them will inherit.
For example, it is Mr. McCain -- the man who amended the words of a Beach Boys song last year to joke about bombing Iran's nuclear sites -- who says he could imagine a situation in which Iran's behavior changes so much that he would be willing ''to consider'' allowing Iran to enrich its own uranium, producing a fuel that could be used for nuclear power -- but only under highly restrictive conditions that ensure it could never be used for weapons.
Mr. Obama, the candidate who has expressed far more willingness to sit down and negotiate with the Iranians, said in an e-mail message passed on by an aide that in any final deal he would not allow Iran to produce uranium on Iranian soil, the same hard-line view enunciated by the Bush administration.
Consider the delicate issue of Pakistan, where it is Mr. Obama who has been far more willing than Mr. McCain to threaten sending in American troops on ground raids. Mr. McCain, by contrast, argues that Pakistan must control its territory. ''I don't think the American people today are ready to commit troops to Waziristan,'' he said, months before Mr. Bush signed secret orders this summer authorizing ground raids in Pakistan, including the violent sanctuaries of North and South Waziristan.
Mr. McCain, now the Republican nominee, agreed to an interview during the primary campaign. Obama aides answered questions at length, but Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, citing the pressures of time in the campaign, declined requests dating to June to be interviewed in detail on how he would handle potential confrontations beyond Iraq that could face the next president.
It is worth remembering that presidential campaigns are usually terrible predictors of presidential decision-making. John F. Kennedy said virtually nothing about building up troops in Vietnam in 1960, nor did Richard M. Nixon talk in 1968 about engineering an opening to China. George W. Bush, in an interview at his ranch 10 days before his first inaugural in 2001, lamented that sanctions against Saddam Hussein looked like ''Swiss cheese'' but did not appear, at that time, to be heading toward a military confrontation with him.
New Look at Engagement
With the endgame slowly playing out in Iraq, the potential confrontation over neighboring Iran and its nuclear program has emerged as the No. 1 case study in how Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain would use diplomacy and the threat of military force against a hostile state. Based on their careers and their statements, Mr. McCain's threshold for pre-emptive military action seems lower than Mr. Obama's.
For each candidate, the debate over Iran has been somewhat treacherous. Mr. Obama knew his interest in pursuing diplomacy could leave him vulnerable to criticism as a potential appeaser; Mr. McCain, known for his ''Bomb Iran'' ditty, had to demonstrate that he would not be trigger-happy.
In the end, both men have proved more comfortable in declaring that they would never allow Iran to become a nuclear weapons state than in explaining how they would obtain the leverage to stop Iran's nuclear program peacefully. And neither has dealt publicly with the harder question of what to do if Iran assembles all the fuel and components needed for a weapon but stops just short of actually making one.
Mr. Obama's declaration that he would engage Iranian leaders without preconditions has dominated the debate and opened him to Mr. McCain's accusation that he is a naif, willing to give legitimacy to the Iranian regime. Mr. Obama has backtracked a bit, arguing that he never suggested that the first meetings would be at the presidential level, and that preconditions are less important than ''careful preparations.''
When pressed, Mr. Obama has said that ''we will never take military options off the table'' and that he would not give the United Nations ''veto power'' over deciding to strike nuclear facilities.
The harder question is how to force Iran to give up its uranium enrichment quickly, before it produces enough material to build a weapon -- a threshold American and European intelligence officials say may be crossed fairly early in the next presidential term. Mr. McCain has been more vociferous in emphasizing that ''we have to do whatever's necessary'' to stop Iran from obtaining a weapon. In 1994, when North Korea was at a similar stage in its nuclear weapons program, Mr. McCain said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC that if diplomacy failed to shut down the country's production facilities within months, ''then yes, military air strikes would be called for.''
But in a post-Iraq world, Mr. McCain has been more circumspect. He no longer talks about ''rogue state rollback,'' the phrase he used in 2000 to describe a strategy of undermining governments like those in North Korea, Iran and Iraq under Saddam Hussein. Mr. McCain said in interviews last year and early this year that risking military action against Iran might be better than ''living with an Iranian bomb.'' Recently, he has expressed more interest in changing Iran's behavior than changing the government, and has said that his Beach Boys ditty was a bad attempt at humor: ''I wasn't suggesting that we go around and declare war.''
But the main prescription Mr. McCain has offered relies on gradually escalating economic sanctions, the same path taken by the Bush administration. So far that strategy has been a complete failure: Iran has 3,800 centrifuges, up from a few hundred experimental centrifuges when the administration began, and enough, in theory, to make a bomb's worth of fuel in a year.
Questions to both campaigns in the past few weeks have yielded another example of role reversal. While Mr. McCain seems willing to consider that Iran might someday be trusted to produce its own nuclear fuel, Mr. Obama does not. The director of foreign policy for the McCain campaign, Randy Scheunemann, said that if Iran was in compliance with United Nations resolutions, ''it would be appropriate to consider'' letting it produce uranium under inspection, which Iran has said is its right.
Mr. Obama's position is closer to the zero-tolerance approach adopted by the Bush administration. ''I do not believe Iran should be enriching uranium or keeping centrifuges,'' he said in an e-mail message passed on by aides.
Mr. Obama does seem more willing to dangle in front of the Iranians a ''grand bargain'' that would spell out benefits -- diplomatic recognition, an end to sanctions -- as a reward for halting its enrichment of uranium and allowing full inspections of the country. Richard J. Danzig, considered a candidate to be secretary of defense in an Obama administration, said Mr. Obama was willing to ''put out a more positive side to the agenda to lead the Iranians toward making the right choices here.''
But Mr. Obama has also been more specific in describing the kind of sanctions he might reach for if the Iranians continue on the current path. ''If we can prevent them from importing the gasoline that they need, and the refined petroleum products, that starts changing their cost-benefit analysis,'' he said.
Some experts have counseled caution about such an approach, one that the Bush administration has stopped short of taking. A blockade, however, could constitute an act of war, and most experts believe Iran could respond in kind by cutting off oil exports, increasing prices and leading to shortages.
When to Intervene
While Mr. McCain reminds audiences that he vowed to do whatever it took to win in Iraq, he has been extraordinarily reluctant when it comes to the war in Afghanistan to advocate cross-border attacks into Pakistan, even though top military commanders have publicly said that is a prerequisite to victory. Mr. McCain has dismissed Mr. Obama's advocacy of military action inside Pakistan as unwise, saying his rival does not appreciate how Pakistanis would react to an incursion by an ally, even into ungovernable territory Pakistan itself has never really controlled.
That was Mr. Bush's view as well until July, when he issued secret orders allowing American Special Operations forces to conduct ground incursions into Pakistan, to keep insurgents from forming a safe haven. Mr. McCain has not condemned Mr. Bush's action, but he has suggested that such operations should never be discussed in public and that Mr. Obama had made a rookie's mistake by raising the possibility.
''The last thing we should be doing is telegraphing to Pakistan that we are going to violate their sovereignty,'' Mr. Scheunemann said last week, when asked if Mr. McCain was opposed to military action over the border, or just opposed to talking about it. ''Senator Obama's stubborn insistence on publicly threatening to attack targets in Pakistan and limit military assistance is swagger, not statesmanship.''
Mr. Obama has frequently said he would send American personnel over the border to kill leaders of Al Qaeda. In his speech at the Democratic convention, Mr. Obama accused Mr. McCain of focusing on the wrong war -- Iraq -- and he vowed to hunt down Osama bin Laden and his lieutenants.
But American policy since the attacks of Sept. 11 has backed hunting down Qaeda members anywhere, including inside Pakistan. A harder question is whether to go into Pakistan to hunt down Taliban or other militant groups using the sanctuary to mount attacks against Americans in Afghanistan or to strike the Pakistani government. On that question, Mr. Obama has been ambiguous, and his campaign has declined to clarify his statements.
Humanitarian Aid
When it comes to sending troops to protect the oppressed, it is Mr. Obama who has sounded a lot more like an interventionist than Mr. McCain.
Mr. McCain has long been a skeptic of sending American troops on humanitarian quests -- whether for peacekeeping, peacemaking or missions that morphed from one to the other. He has reminded voters that he opposed military interventions in Lebanon in the early 1980s, and in Somalia, Haiti and Bosnia in the 1990s. He has often asked what good American troops can do in a single year when the conflict they are parachuting into has roiled for centuries, and he has often demanded to see an exit strategy before troops were committed.
Mr. Obama has praised what the United Nations calls a ''responsibility to protect,'' a doctrine that elevates aiding oppressed populations over respecting national borders. Mr. McCain has agreed, but both men have emphasized the need for case-by-case judgment.
In Foreign Affairs, Mr. Obama laid out a position that is the opposite of President Bush's attitude in 2000 but sounds much like his attitude now. Mr. Obama wrote that he would use the military to ''support friends, participate in stability and reconstruction operations or confront mass atrocities.'' But he cited the first President Bush as the example to follow in gaining ''the clear support and participation of others.''
In a debate in early October, Mr. Obama said that in Darfur the United States ''could be providing logistical support, setting up a no-fly zone, at relatively little cost to us'' if it had help from other nations. But when pressed, Mr. Obama's aides said that he would be hesitant to commit American ground troops, who are in short supply because of the demands of Iraq and Afghanistan.
Dealing With Great Powers
Within hours of the Russian attack on Georgia in August, Mr. McCain was on the phone to his foreign policy advisers, seeking to calibrate the right response. It was a critical moment for a man who has surrounded himself with members of both warring camps in the Republican Party -- the neoconservatives nursing their wounds after Iraq went bad, and the pragmatists who rose again in Mr. Bush's second term.
''He had people telling him, 'John, you want to think about the long term -- we need the Russians on Iran, and the Georgians sort of invited this,' '' a friend who talked to him in that period said. But in the end, Mr. McCain stepped out with a strong defense of Georgia, while Mr. Obama issued a more even-handed statement, calling for all sides to return to the uneasy status quo that had prevailed in South Ossetia.
While Mr. Obama's reaction was much closer to the Bush administration's, Mr. McCain seized on the moment to portray Mr. Obama as weak. Mr. McCain's friends say his criticism of Russia was a direct outgrowth of his prisoner-of-war experience and his cold war upbringing. He regularly reminds voters than when he looks into the eyes of Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian prime minister, he sees three letters: K.G.B.
The difference has also played out in how Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have embraced a proposal by four prominent cold warriors -- former Senator Sam Nunn, former Defense Secretary William J. Perry, and former Secretaries of State George P. Shultz and Henry A. Kissinger -- toward reducing the American nuclear arsenal to zero. Both candidates have said they support the goal, but Mr. McCain has sounded less enthusiastic, saying he would reduce nuclear weapons ''to the lowest level we judge necessary.'' Many conservatives also object to deep cuts in the arsenal, saying that could harm the country's ability to remain the world's dominant superpower and encourage nuclear challengers to build up to American levels.
By contrast, Mr. Obama, who was only 28 when the Berlin Wall fell, has argued that unless the United States and Russia radically reduce their stockpiles, they will never persuade smaller nations like Iran and North Korea to forgo their nuclear weapons programs.
Both men say they share the goal of keeping the United States the most powerful nation on earth. Mr. McCain emphasizes hard power first, though his advisers say that on global warming, among other issues, he has shown a flexibility that President Bush rarely demonstrated. More than any previous presidential candidate, Mr. Obama has emphasized the idea of soft power -- the ability to lead by moral example and nonmilitary action -- and his challenge if elected, his advisers acknowledge, is to convince the world that an untested young senator also has a steely edge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VISITS ABROAD: Senator Barack Obama met with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan in July in Kabul. Senator John McCain greeted local businessmen in March while touring Haditha, Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETY IMAGES
CPL. SHAWN COOLMAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETY IMAGES)
ADVISERS AT HOME Mr. Obama at a foreign policy meeting this week and Mr. McCain traveling with Randy Scheunemann, his director of foreign policy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A24) CHART: THE CANDIDATES ON NATIONAL SECURITY (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (56%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (68%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); INDONESIA (88%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



968 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: Working Longer As Jobs Contract

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
IN recent years, many retirement experts have been giving the same unwelcome advice: American workers who are not as rich as Warren E. Buffett should retire three or so years later than they had planned -- to ensure that they have a large enough nest egg.
But now, in these extraordinarily turbulent times, with the stock market declining sharply and millions of 401(k) plans plunging in value, many workers are suddenly facing a starker situation -- they worry that they might have to work 5, 7, even 10 years later than planned, perhaps well into their 70s.
But that's not the only problem. Even as workers in their 40s, 50s and 60s accept having to work years longer than anticipated, many companies are laying off employees amid the economic downturn. This often means that older workers are pushed out first, because they are usually the highest-paid employees. 
''You have 401(k) plans going into the tank and the cost of health insurance rising, so many people see they need to work longer,'' said Karen Ferguson, director of the Pension Rights Center, an advocacy group for retirees in Washington. ''At the same time, many employers don't have money to hire people, and they're getting rid of their more expensive employees, so it's kind of a perfect storm.''
A recent AARP survey found that the economic slump has been badly squeezing the nation's 78 million baby boomers, those born between 1946 and 1964. In the survey, 20 percent of boomers said they had stopped contributing to retirement plans, 34 percent said they were thinking of delaying retirement and 27 percent acknowledged problems paying rent and mortgages.
The Congressional Budget Office reported two weeks ago that the nation's pensions and 401(k) plans had lost around $2 trillion over the last 15 months, with many 401(k)'s dropping by 20 percent or more. And a survey done last year, well before the market turmoil, found that two in five retirees expected to outlive their savings.
Financial planners, economists and retirement experts offer little comfort for older workers, along with blunt advice.
With regard to investments, Teresa Ghilarducci, an economics professor at the New School in New York, said, ''Right now the practical thing for older workers to do is to not sell their assets in their 401(k) plans at rock-bottom prices.''
She said workers in general should not let Wall Street's sharp drop persuade them to stop saving for retirement, especially because many 60-somethings have nest eggs that are disconcertingly small. Professor Ghilarducci said that if workers were alarmed by sagging stock prices, they should steer their future 401(k) contributions into bonds or money market funds.
Jack L. VanDerhei, research director of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, said workers would be making a big mistake if they became so frightened of 401(k)'s that they did not take full advantage of their employer's 401(k) match. ''That,'' he said, ''would be leaving money on the table.''
As for advice on jobs, Cecil Hemingway, the United States retirement practice leader with Aon Consulting, said: ''Your best defense, whether you're ready for retirement or not, is you have to be sure that you have valuable, usable skills. That probably applies to everybody, even if you're a college graduate. If you don't have valuable skills, you're going to have a problem.''
At age 57, Nicolette Toussaint, associate vice president for communications at Alliant International University in San Francisco, is taking this advice to heart. She acknowledges that she is too frightened to open her I.R.A. and 401(k) statements, but she knows she is not going to sell off her stocks.
''It's a roller-coaster ride, and it might come back,'' she said. ''I can't pull it out now. It would be stupid to do that.''
Ms. Toussaint reckons that the $250,000 she had in savings in January has shrunk to $200,000. ''My financial planner keeps telling me that $250,000 is not enough, and you don't know how long you're going to live,'' she said.
Figuring that she might retire from her university job in 10 years, Ms. Toussaint is preparing for a second, part-time career. She is taking courses in interior design at the extension school at the University of California, Berkeley.
''I sort of assumed that I would probably retire around 68, but with what's happened recently, I'm thinking I might work until 75 or 77, so long as I'm healthy,'' she said. ''I've tried to figure out what can I do as I get older that I wouldn't be dependent on someone else to hire me. I figure I could start my own little business.''
Americans who heed the advice to work several years beyond the current average retirement of 63 could face some resistance from employers reluctant to keep them. Not only do companies typically pay higher salaries to older workers, but they also frequently pay more for their health insurance than for younger employees.
''The way many companies see it, older workers' productivity is steady to down and their compensation is steady to up,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''That doesn't make older workers attractive.''
Robert M. Hutchens, professor of labor economics at Cornell University, said, ''The aggressive pushing out of older workers is a selective process.'' He said employers favored keeping older employees who did not need supervision and worked extra to get the job done.
Some companies are eager to hire such workers. Tim Driver, chief executive of RetirementJobs.com, a Web site for job seekers over 50, said H&R Block, Safeway and Travelers were among them. ''Because we're in a service economy, not a manufacturing economy,'' he said, ''80 percent of jobs can be performed by people well into their years.''
Deborah Russell, director of work force issues for AARP, pointed to several factors that make older workers less attractive to retain or hire -- many resist training, dislike answering to younger bosses or have poor computer skills.
Regina White, 68, of Geneva, Ill., a former special assistant to the vice president of taxes at Sears, Roebuck & Company, is searching for a position for the first time since she was downsized out of a job and retired in 1995. Her retirement portfolio has dropped 35 percent in value, and food and fuel prices have climbed. ''I've had to change my lifestyle,'' she said, noting that she quit her $70-a-month gym. She lives mainly on her annual $17,000 in Social Security payments and withdrawals from her retirement account.
''It's degrading to look for work after you've stayed away from the work force as long as I have,'' she said. ''You've lost your skills. I'm not up to date on computers.''
When she applied recently for a mail-sorting job with United Parcel Service, she was mystified when the company hired several far younger applicants instead of her.
''I'm being interviewed by kids who could be my grandchildren and competing with them,'' she said.
Millions of workers are in Ms. White's predicament because 401(k)'s have supplanted traditional pensions as the main retirement vehicle for America's work force, even though many experts say there are huge problems with the 401(k) system. With traditional pensions, employers contribute the money and shoulder the risks; with 401(k)'s, workers are responsible for most or all of the contributions and all the investment risk.
More than one in five workers at companies that offer 401(k)'s do not even sign up. A study by the Congressional Research Service found that the median amount that workers age 55 to 64 have in their 401(k)'s is just $61,000; another study by the Employee Benefit Research Institute found that 43 percent of workers age 55 and over have less than $50,000 in their 401(k)'s and other savings and investments. Moreover, the institute found that 27 percent of workers in that age group invest more than 90 percent of their 401(k)'s in stocks, a comparatively volatile investment.
The law that established 401(k)'s was not designed to help the typical worker, but rather to help top executives shield part of their high income from taxes. But over the last two decades, companies have aggressively shifted from traditional pensions, which guarantee a particular amount each month, to 401(k)'s, largely because this shifts retirement costs from companies to employees.
When they lay off older workers, many employers insist they are focusing not on the workers' age but on their lack of up-to-date skills or their lagging motivation. As the number of age discrimination lawsuits has swelled, there has been an increase in monetary judgments and settlements, and some employment experts predict bigger severance packages as a way to nudge out more older workers voluntarily.
Mr. VanDerhei, of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, said, ''For the vast majority of people, if they think they have enough to get out of the work force at age 65, they're fooling themselves.'' More and more workers apparently agree, because the percentage of workers age 65 and over in the labor force has climbed to 17.3 percent in 2008, from 12 percent in 1999.
Debra Villacis, owner of an Internet company in St. Louis that handles documents for hospitals, appears to have reached that conclusion. Ms. Villacis, 59, said she had invested in growth stocks when she was younger and switched to stable, blue-chip holdings as she aged.
''Everything was pretty much on track,'' she said. ''But now everything's been hit.''
She figures that her retirement portfolio has shrunk by $150,000, or 25 percent. Before the market sank, she was thinking of retiring in her 60s, but now, she said, ''I'll probably retire at 72 or so. It's going to take a long time for the market to recover. After the Depression, it took 25 years for the stock market to get back.''
Even many younger workers are rethinking their retirement plans.
Tim Shull, 45, of Cuero, Tex., is executive director of business development for a pharmaceutical company, and until recently had planned to retire in a decade or so. He and his wife, Kathryn Weber, had more than $500,000 in retirement investments early this year, but he said they had taken a 20 percent hit, while some of his friends had lost 40 percent.
''I'm not panicked,'' he said, adding that he and his wife say: '' 'We'd love to retire between 55 and 58.' But now do the math. We're probably looking at the early 60s.''
Each year Mr. Shull puts 13 percent of his pay into his 401(k). ''I've done all the right things you're supposed to do,'' he said. ''But then you hear the horror stories about people who are in their 50s and haven't saved a penny. I feel for those people.''
Professor Munnell of Boston College said that staying in the labor force longer is the key to retirement security.
''The reason is you will not get reduced benefits under Social Security,'' she said. ''Two, you allow your 401(k) assets a chance to bounce back, and you can contribute more. Three, it reduces the period during which you have to support yourself.''
Retirees receive reduced Social Security benefits if they retire at 62, but benefits rise by 8 percent a year for every year a worker delays retirement until age 70. To maintain living standards after they retire, workers need post-retirement income of 70 to 80 percent of their income before retiring, many experts say.
Mr. Hemingway of Aon Consulting estimated that someone earning $75,000 a year would need $40,000 a year on top of Social Security. He recommended annuities and said that at age 70, $500,000 could be converted into a lifetime annuity of $40,000 a year.
Professor Munnell advised aging workers to make clear to their supervisors that they plan to remain on the job. ''If you're a 55-year-old worker, you want to tell your company that you intend to be there at least 10 more years, that you want to be considered for training and promotion and that you're actively involved in your job.''
She said too many older workers suddenly and capriciously quit their jobs, leaving themselves with little saved for retirement, because they became frustrated by a new boss or another issue.
''It basically comes down to sucking it up,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAREER PLANNING: Nicolette Toussaint, 57, thinks she might retire from her university job in 10 years and is preparing for a second, part-time career.
WAITING OUT THE TURMOIL: Debra Villacis, 59, planned to stop working about age 72. ''It's going to take a long time for the market to recover,'' she said.
TIMETABLE PUSHED BACK: Tim Shull and his wife, Kathryn Weber, who live in Cuero, Tex., had hoped to retire between ages 55 and 58. ''But now do the math,'' he said. ''We're probably looking at the early 60s.'' Added Mr. Shull, who is 45, ''I'm not panicked.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: Little Savings, More Work for Those Over 55: A January 2008 survey by the Employee Benefit Research Institute found that 28 percent of respondents over age 55 had saved less than $10,000 for retirement. At the same time, the percentage of 55- to 64-year-olds in the workplace is rising.(Sources: Employee Benefit Research Institute, Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details line graph.(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); BUDGETS (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); BONDS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AARP INC (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



969 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Look Is the Same; the Labels Have Changed

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
When Sarah Palin arrived at the governor's mansion in Juneau, Alaska, for the first time in December 2006, she wore a pink turtleneck, a preppy track jacket and what appeared to be a knockoff Burberry scarf. She had often campaigned in fleece. Introduced as Senator John McCain's running mate in Dayton, Ohio, in August, she wore red pumps that cost $89 from Naughty Monkey, a brand whose target audience is teenagers. 
 As a vice-presidential candidate, Ms. Palin's look -- which has apparently undergone a costly makeover -- has not changed dramatically from a ''Working Girl'' formula of authoritative jackets paired with feminine skirts that seem calculated to suggest that she is ready to go to work on Day 1. 
 The Republicans spent about $150,000 on a clothing makeover for Ms. Palin and her family, according to financial disclosure forms. But looking at the before-and-after photos, it was not readily apparent what Ms. Palin got, exactly, from her shopping spree at Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue. 
 What the number $150,000 suggests is that Ms. Palin traded up to designer versions of the clothes she wore before stepping onto the national stage, a surprising implication for a candidate who emphasizes her appeal to working-class voters. 
 ''My first reaction when I heard about this was, 'Honey, I could have dressed you for a lot less than that,' '' said Cindi Leive, the editor in chief of Glamour magazine, which asked readers on Wednesday to vote in an online poll whether the expenses were too high; 72 percent said they were. ''In general, she looks terrific,'' Ms. Leive said, ''but if you asked me to figure out where the $150,000 went, I'm not sure I could tell you.''
 It is not yet clear whether Ms. Palin chose her new wardrobe or worked with stylists and other advisers, or what message her clothes were intended to broadcast. In fact, most of her bracelet sleeve jackets are so generic-looking that they could have come from any of the favored designers of Washington politicians: Oscar de la Renta, Escada and St. John. 
 The square ivory jacket she wore during her acceptance speech at the Republican Convention was a $2,500 silk shantung Valentino, reportedly bought at Saks. But the black wrap jacket she wore for the vice-presidential debate in St. Louis was a Tahari suit, according to a spokesman for the line, and costs less than $200; her shoes, according to the sleuths at ShoeaholicsAnonymous.com, were red imitation croc pumps from Kate Spade.
 To her credit, Ms. Palin has been wearing those suits, and those awkward-yet-efficient, zip-close jackets (nothing says maverick like red leather) repeatedly over the last month, implying a sense of frugality that would belie the credit card statements of the Republican National Committee. To be scrupulously nonpartisan, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., her Democratic counterpart, seems to have a deep wardrobe of ties. 
 Some fashion executives went so far as to defend Ms. Palin for helping to support the economy.
 ''There's no upside to looking frumpy or dowdy,'' said Simon Doonan, the creative director of Barneys New York, where the campaign reported spending only $789.72, or enough for almost one outfit. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Sarah Palin is now wearing Valentino, above left
Tahari, above right
and Cole Haan boots, below left. ''In general, she looks terrific,'' said Cindi Leive, of Glamour magazine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICK WILKING/REUTERS
ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
POOL PHOTO BY ALLEN EYESTONE)
 Ms. Palin and her children arriving in Juneau in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN WALLACE/JUNEAU EMPIRE) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICS (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (91%); DAYTON, OH, USA (72%) ALASKA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



970 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Signature Plans Move To Space In Midtown

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
After a wearying five-year search in which the Signature Theater Company was promised a new home at the former World Trade Center site and later in a community college auditorium on West Broadway, the organization now plans to move to a tower under construction on West 42nd Street, a few doors down from its current home.
 The Signature space, to be designed by Frank Gehry, would be at the base of a 58-story, 1.2-million-square-foot hotel and residential building being developed by Related Companies at 10th Avenue, near the strip of theaters known as Theater Row. The building was designed by Arquitectonica. 
 In 70,000 square feet of contiguous space to be known as the Signature Center, the Off Broadway company would operate one theater with 299 seats and two with 199, one of which would be flexible. The theater now has just one 160-seat auditorium, at 555 West 42nd Street in Clinton.
 The new space of the Signature, which specializes in seasons devoted to single writers, would have two rehearsal studios, a cafe, a bookstore and offices. 
 ''It's an ideal spot for us in the heart of the theater district,'' said James Houghton, Signature's artistic director.
 Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, said the location made sense for the theater, which has been in the neighborhood since 1997. ''They can activate a portion of this building in a really meaningful way,'' she said. ''They've got a compelling vision and track record.''
 Although Mr. Gehry's firm will no longer be designing a free-standing building, Craig Webb, one of the architects, said he was excited about the project: ''It's a modest proposition, but I think there's a possibility to create some great little theaters.'' 
 Foundation work on the building started last November and is expected to be completed in two months, Related said. Work on the superstructure is scheduled to begin in January. By providing space to a theater, a developer gains the right to build more square footage than is typically allowed under the zoning law. 
 The theater's new space is expected to cost $60 million. Related is to provide the core and shell, and the Signature is to be responsible for the interior. A $20 million fund-raising campaign is planned, to be led by Richard J. Schwartz, a former chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts. 
 Mr. Houghton said that the Signature's board had raised about $6 million and that he hoped the city would be generous with its support. The Department of Cultural Affairs has so far committed $9.5 million, Ms. Levin said.
 Fund-raising is bound to be a challenge, given the tough economic climate. Mr. Houghton said Related had offered the Signature a 10-year bridge loan of $10 million to ''help us get started'' with the ''hard and soft'' costs of the project. He said he expected the theater's annual operating budget to increase to $9 million from about $4 million.
 Last year the city backed out of plans to help relocate the Signature to a new performing arts center at the former World Trade Center site on the ground that having two institutions share a limited space was too complicated and costly, at an estimated $700 million. (The Joyce Theater, which is devoted to dance, remains the sole tenant planned for that building, also to be designed by Mr. Gehry, although that project has yet to move forward.) 
 The Signature then settled on Fiterman Hall, part of Borough of Manhattan Community College, diagonally across from 7 World Trade Center. The hall had been heavily damaged by falling debris in the terrorist attack of 9/11. The project also proved too costly, at a projected $360 million, for the theater component.
 The Signature is hoping to establish a new presence on 42nd Street in the spirit of the National Theater's complex in London: a gathering place with several different kinds of theaters where artists and audience members can congregate between performances. That thinking, that a critical mass of theaters can create a dynamic cultural district, inspired the creation of Theater Row. The Signature's entrance is to be at ground level, with the stages on the second floor and some offices on a mezzanine. 
 The theater's lease at 555 West 42nd Street is up in 2011. It hopes to open in its new home that year, with construction of the theater to begin this summer.
 Founded in 1991, the Signature has featured the work of Edward Albee, Horton Foote, John Guare, Paula Vogel and August Wilson. The current season centers on productions from the history of the Negro Ensemble Company. Suzan-Lori Parks, the Pulitzer-winning author of ''Topdog/Underdog,'' will be the theater's next focus, and in 2010-11 the Signature will highlight Tony Kushner, another Pulitzer winner, in its 20th-anniversary season. 
 According to the Department of Cultural Affairs, the Signature says it is the ninth-largest nonprofit theater company in New York City.
 Mr. Houghton said that although the Signature had been enthusiastic about the prospect of moving downtown, he was not disappointed by how things turned out. ''We worked rigorously to try to make that happen,'' he said of the ground zero project. But ''sometimes you end up right where you should.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about plans for a new home for the Signature Theater Company on West 42nd Street erroneously attributed the statement that the Signature is the ninth-largest nonprofit theater company in New York City. The company itself said that, not the city's Department of Cultural Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ZONING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CITY LIFE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



971 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: McCain Is Faltering Among Hispanic Voters

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
ESPANOLA, N.M. -- In the early days of the presidential campaign, Senator John McCain seemed to be in a good position to win support among Hispanic voters. He had sponsored legislation for comprehensive immigration overhaul in Congress, made a point of speaking warmly about the contributions of immigrants and was popular among Latinos in Arizona, his home state, which borders three battleground states here in the Southwest: New Mexico, Colorado and Nevada.
But less than two weeks before Election Day, those advantages appear to have evaporated. Recent Gallup polls show Mr. McCain running far behind Senator Barack Obama among Hispanic voters nationwide, only 26 percent of whom favor the Republican. The possibility that Mr. McCain can duplicate George W. Bush's performance among Latinos in 2004, when Republicans won 44 percent of the vote, now seems remote.
Both candidates are spending heavily on Spanish-language advertising, and continue to schedule campaign events to focus on the fast-growing Hispanic vote. Last month, Mr. McCain held a town-hall-style meeting at a Puerto Rican community center in central Florida; a few days later, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, came to this heavily Hispanic city of 9,600 people for a rally at a plaza that dates to Spanish colonial times. 
In an echo of his overall slide in the polls, some of the issues that have hampered Mr. McCain's candidacy turn out to have had an even greater impact on the Hispanic population. Latinos cite the crisis in the economy as their biggest concern, trumping immigration and the social conservatism that Republicans thought would help expand Mr. McCain's appeal among religious, family-oriented Hispanic voters.
And if Republicans were counting on tensions between blacks and Latinos, now the nation's largest minority, driving Hispanic voters away from Mr. Obama, that also has largely failed to materialize.
Early in the primary season, when Mr. Obama was still a newcomer little known to Latinos outside Illinois, he began campaigning among Hispanic voters, even in states where he knew he would lose to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the favorite among Hispanics. Political analysts say Mr. McCain has only sporadically and belatedly sought to engage Latino voters.
''The McCain campaign was never set up in a way that spoke to Hispanics,'' said Matthew Dowd, Mr. Bush's senior strategist in 2004. ''Throughout the entire primary, there was no conversation because they thought that was not where the election was. You can't start to campaign in September for the general election among Hispanics. They are very frustrated with Bush and the Republicans, so McCain has a bigger hurdle to overcome.''
Hispanics account for three of every eight voters here in New Mexico, where the vote has been extremely tight in the last two presidential elections. Al Gore won this state by just 366 votes as the Democratic nominee in 2000, and in 2004, President Bush triumphed by fewer than 6,000.
In Colorado and Nevada, Latinos account for at least 20 percent of the population and 12 percent of registered voters. Together, the three Southwestern battleground states have 19 electoral votes that are growing in importance for Mr. McCain as his electoral map shrinks.
But events seem to be working in Mr. Obama's favor. Contrary to what non-Hispanic politicians often assume, immigration does not rank as high on the list of Hispanic concerns as the economy, education and health care.
Instead, surveys show that Latinos see immigration as a tool useful in identifying who is friend and who is foe. That may have complicated Mr. McCain's task: despite his sponsorship of the immigration overhaul legislation, he is burdened by nativist elements within the Republican Party.
''The Republican brand has been tarnished as result of the immigration debate and the extreme rhetoric that came out of that debate,'' said Janet Murguia, executive director of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group. ''We think McCain remains an advocate of a comprehensive approach, but his standing has been undermined by those within his own party and the tough immigration plank in the 2008 Republican platform.''
To woo Hispanic voters, Mr. McCain seems to have singled out three groups for attention in the Rocky Mountain West: Hispanic veterans, owners of small businesses and social conservatives, especially those who are members of Protestant evangelical groups or the charismatic Roman Catholic movement.
James Lujan, 47, a deputy sheriff here, fits into the first category. He is a former marine with a son serving in the military in the Middle East, and he said he worried that Mr. Obama would withdraw precipitously from Iraq.
''The troops need to be able to finish what they're doing,'' Mr. Lujan said. ''I've got one son who is 14 and another who is 8, and if we pull out right away, like Obama wants, they're the ones who are going to have to go back.''
His wife, Julie, 36, also supports Mr. McCain. She runs a hair salon, sells real estate as a sideline, and was excited by Mr. McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate.
''I admire a strong, hard-working woman,'' Mrs. Lujan said. ''We need to get out of the financial casino and be responsible, and McCain and Palin are the people who can do that.''
But independent political analysts point to what they say are basic flaws in Mr. McCain's Hispanic strategy. Republicans ''can talk all they want about abortion and same-sex marriage, but survey after survey tells us that even among socially conservative Hispanics, it's the other issues that matter most,'' said Christine M. Sierra, a professor of political science at the University of New Mexico.
Mrs. Lujan's sister, brother and mother, who work together at JoAnn's Ranch-O-Casados restaurant here, strongly echoed that assessment. JoAnn Casados, 57, argues that Mr. Obama ''sees it the way we see it.''
Ms. Casados's son, Orlando, 39, who works in the family's chili business, said, ''I'm worried about health care and the price of gasoline, which has driven up the cost of doing business, and I think Obama cares more about how that affects people like us.''
His sister Suzanne, 29, added, ''Obama is more focused on the things that are really important, like the economy and health care, while McCain is up and down and all over the place.''
Though the 2004 election showed Republicans could successfully appeal to Hispanic voters, that experience may provide less of a road map this year than might be expected. The Hispanic electorate has grown greatly since then, its numbers swelled by several million newly registered first-time voters: green-card holders who have recently become American citizens and young bilingual and bicultural Latinos who are sometimes referred to as ''Generation n.''
In addition, the bulk of the Latino vote remains concentrated in states not in play, like California, staunchly for Mr. Obama, and Texas, a McCain stronghold. That means the Hispanic vote is likely to be decisive only here in the Southwest and in Florida, where an influx of Puerto Ricans, who traditionally vote heavily Democratic, and Central and South American newcomers, has somewhat diluted the importance of the historically Republican Cuban-American vote.
The Obama campaign in particular has sought to seize advantage of those shifting demographic trends, organizing a voter registration drive in states with large or growing Hispanic populations. In Nevada, the number of registered Hispanic voters has doubled since 2004, to about 120,000, which is seen as a factor that could shift the balance there.
''Nevada is very dynamic, very volatile,'' said Efrain Escobedo, senior director of voter engagement at National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, an advocacy group. ''We're talking about people who are truly the swing vote in Nevada, with very little party affiliation or allegiance to any particular party or candidate.''
Initial concerns that Mr. Obama would not be able to win over Hispanic voters who supported Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primaries have largely disappeared, though signs of what sociologists call ''black-brown tensions'' still surface. For instance, John Medina, a 70-year-old Navy retiree living east of here, has a McCain-Palin sign in his yard and when asked why he favored the Republican nominee, he replied, ''Because he's not black.''
More common, however, was the attitude that Ms. Casados expressed. ''We need change, so the fact that Obama is not an Anglo appeals to me,'' she said. ''He understands what discrimination is about, and if he gets in there and does a good job, that will make it easier for all the rest of us, whether black, Hispanic or Indian, to get past that problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



972 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Rice Visits Mexico for a Meeting About Its Drug War

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Elisabeth Malkin and Antonio Betancourt contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The Bush administration signaled its alarm about Mexico's vicious drug war by sending the American secretary of state on Wednesday to a two-day meeting on improving cross-border cooperation in the battle against the country's powerful drug cartels.
 The Bush administration increasingly sees the violent clashes in Mexico as a threat to American security, and the lawlessness was high on the agenda when Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrived on Wednesday in Puerto Vallarta for meetings with her local counterpart, Patricia Espinosa. The Mexicans had sought the high-level visit to press for greater coordination with the United States in their fight against the heavily armed cartels, but the world economic crisis was also discussed. 
 Ms. Rice's arrival was the latest in a series of visits this month alone by top-level administration officials. Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey met with his counterpart in Mexico City several weeks back. Last week, John P. Walters, the director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, made the rounds of the Mexican capital.
 The visits are indications of the Bush administration's desire to lend a hand to President Felipe Calderon's government, which has made fighting the traffickers the centerpiece of its agenda but has nonetheless seen security around the country deteriorate.
 ''There is a great deal of stress and strain being placed on the Calderon administration in Mexico, and we want to show our support,'' said a State Department official who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.
 On Wednesday, Mexican authorities were touting the arrest of Jesus Zambada Garcia, a high-level trafficker from the powerful Sinaloa Cartel, after a shootout with the police in Mexico City. 
 The Mexican government's fight against traffickers comes with considerable risk, because cartel leaders have singled out for assassination numerous law enforcement officials engaged in the antidrug campaign. Mr. Calderon has said that he has received numerous threats since he started his antidrug offensive upon taking office nearly two years ago.
 Even though the White House successfully pushed through Congress $400 million in aid for Mexico's antidrug effort, Mr. Calderon has complained of the need for even more focused attention from the United States. Not only is America the world's largest market for illegal narcotics, but it also provides much of the weaponry used by Mexican cartels.
 The violence has directly affected American government facilities. The American Consulate in Monterrey was attacked this month by a gunman who fired several shots at the building and another man who lofted a grenade, which did not detonate. Several days later, after a visit to the building by the American ambassador to Mexico, Antonio O. Garza, gunshots rang out nearby and the consulate was closed for the day. 
 In Ciudad Juarez, a border city that has experienced more than 1,000 killings this year as part of a raging battle among traffickers, American officials recently reported a series of muggings near the consulate there. Visa applicants visiting the building have been warned not to use cash.
 The American Embassy in Mexico City, meanwhile, upgraded its travel alert in recent days for Americans visiting Mexico, warning that drug cartels posed a significant danger, especially along the border. ''Firefights have taken place in many towns and cities across Mexico but particularly in northern Mexico, including Tijuana, Chihuahua City and Ciudad Juarez,'' the alert said. ''The situation in northern Mexico remains fluid; the location and timing of future armed engagements cannot be predicted.''
 During his visit to Mexico last week, Mr. Walters heaped praise on Mr. Calderon for his ''courageous leadership'' in taking on the cartels. But he also expressed concern about the spillover effects of the drug war on the United States.
 ''Some of these groups not only engage in crime and violence in Mexico, but they come across, kidnap, murder, carry out assassinations,'' he told reporters, noting that the intensity of the violence was still much higher south of the border than north of it.
 ''Our goal is to reduce the period of suffering as rapidly as possible by bringing these people to justice,'' he said. ''That's what this is all about on both sides of the border.''
 Mr. Walters, a vehement opponent of drug legalization, backed a proposal by Mr. Calderon not to prosecute people caught carrying relatively small amounts of illegal narcotics, including cocaine and heroin. Under Mr. Calderon's plan, addicts would be treated differently from traffickers and would avoid jail if they agreed to undergo treatment, not unlike similar programs in some parts of the United States. ''I don't think that's legalization,'' Mr. Walters said.
 Another proposal, put forward recently by a Mexico City lawmaker belonging to an opposition party, would legalize the carrying of small amounts of marijuana. That proposal has been roundly criticized by Mexico's political establishment and is not expected to advance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mexican authorities on Wednesday touted the arrest of a trafficker, Jesus Zambada Garcia. Cartel leaders have sought to kill law enforcement officials engaged in Mexico's antidrug campaign.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CARTELS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ASSASSINATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (55%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); MICHAEL MUKASEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008



973 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6048 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ART AND CHINA'S REVOLUTION,' through Jan. 11. The splashy party that was the 2008 Olympics is yesterday's news, but one-party rule in China remains. New China is still, in significant ways, Old China. The obvious question is: What comes next? To help answer it, Asia Society asks a different, equally timely post-Olympics question: What came before? This exhibition of paintings, drawings, posters and Maoist souvenirs produced in the years leading up to and during the Cultural Revolution gives complicated answers. It lays out the conflicted loyalties that have shaped contemporary China, and finds them in the work of artists who anticipated the current art boom and are part of it. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter) 
 * ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'TRACES OF THE CALLIGRAPHER: ISLAMIC CALLIGRAPHY IN PRACTICE, CIRCA 1600-1900' AND 'WRITING THE WORD OF GOD: CALLIGRAPHY AND THE QUR'AN,' through Feb. 8. These side-by-side exhibitions, perfect in size and carefully thought out, approach Islamic calligraphy from two perspectives. The first show is basically a manual in techniques of fine penmanship and luxury book-making, illustrated by superb examples of tools of the trade and finished products. The second is an array of hand-written Koran pages for total-immersion contemplation. Gorgeous. (See above.) (Cotter)
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'STREET ART STREET LIFE: FROM THE 1950S TO NOW,' through Jan. 25. If to you ''street life'' means noise-lights-action, you'll find this show a surprise. With its immaculate, stripped-down installation, the exhibition is clearly devoted not to recreating the feel of art on the street, but to recording it, from Robert Frank's unvarnished photographic views of post-World War II America to digital montages by Fatimah Tuggar uniting today's streets of New York and Lagos, Nigeria. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'GILBERT & GEORGE,' through Jan. 11. Dynamic duo, gruesome twosome or just plain geeks in ties and tweeds, the British artists Gilbert & George don't seem to care what you call them as long as you pay attention, which you couldn't avoid doing if you tried in their suffocating and disordered wraparound survey at the Brooklyn Museum. In no particular sequence, we see the shadowy early black-and-white photographic pieces they did while living in a falling-down section of London in the 1970s, and the huge Pop colored murals filled with flowers and crowds of dishy young men, which decrease in number during the most devastating years of the AIDS epidemic. The newest work in the show, from 2005 and 2006, is crazy, end-of-time stuff. Terrorism and religious fundamentalism are the themes, and Gilbert and George themselves, partners in art as in life, are in the picture, mugging, moralizing, unembarrassed and all but unendurable, in art that's right for right now. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'JESPER JUST: ROMANTIC DELUSIONS,' through Jan. 4. An enchanting show of four short films exhibits most of the qualities for which Mr. Just has become known since completing his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 2003. Melodramatic but never campy or over the top and made with Hollywood-quality production values, his brief musicals explore vulnerable, ordinarily well-armored zones of the masculine psyche, like grief, same-sex love, Oedipal conflict and spiritual desire. The singing is wonderful. (See above.) (Ken Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'HOUSE PROUD: 19-CENTURY WATERCOLOR INTERIORS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION,' through Jan. 25. The 70 or so jewel-like renderings of rooms and their furnishings here are delightful, mordantly signifying artifacts. They track the domestic effects of exoticism and nostalgia (chinoiserie, Gothic Revival); uncover glimmers of modernity (Biedermeier, smaller rooms); and witness the birth of the contemporary genre known as shelter porn. Accompanied by relevant examples of furniture, decorative objects and books, they also reveal that rooms seen whole, with light and space as well as decor carefully depicted, are among painting's most appealing subjects. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)
 * FRICK COLLECTION: 'ANDREA RICCIO: RENAISSANCE MASTER OF BRONZE,' through Jan. 18. Scholars say that Andrea Riccio was one of the greatest sculptors of the Italian Renaissance. Cast in dark bronze and resembling Roman antiquities, Riccio's small-scale statuettes, reliefs and oil lamps seem unremarkably modest at first. But let your eyes adjust to the formal subtlety, expressive urgency and almost supernatural aliveness of his art and you will fall in love. Sculpture does not get much better than this. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CATHERINE OPIE: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER,' through Jan. 7. Catherine Opie is many artists in one. Best known in the 1990s for her striking portraits of gay, lesbian and transgendered men and women drawn from a circle of friends and intimates, she is also a photographer of landscapes, cityscapes, architecture, still lifes and lifestyles. She is an insider and an outsider: a documentarian and a provocateur, a classicist and a maverick; a trekker and a stay-at-home; a lesbian feminist mother who resists the gay mainstream. It's all here in a fine retrospective. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AMERICA AND THE TINTYPE,' through Jan. 4. This show about the tintype, an early form of photograph made by exposing a lacquered iron plate to light, includes some 200 examples from the museum's collection. Most of the artists, and subjects, are unidentified. These works form a group portrait of Americans, mostly working- and middle-class, struggling to adapt to the rapidly shifting social and economic conditions during the four decades after the Civil War. The exhibition makes the most of the tintype's range of subject matter and emotion, from postmortem shots to vaudevillian caricatures, freedmen to minstrels. It does not dispute the daguerreotype's superior potentials for artistry but simply asserts that tintypes have been unfairly overlooked because of their ubiquity, affordability and anonymity. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'SUSAN MEISELAS: IN HISTORY,' through Jan. 4. A certain moral quandary runs throughout this fascinatingly problematic exhibition: how do you reconcile the demands of professionalism and those of human compassion? To her credit, Ms. Meiselas -- whose coverage of the Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua in 1978-79 made her one of the world's most celebrated and criticized war correspondents -- does not duck the question. Tension between opportunism and conscience emerges as the show's main interest -- to the point that it trumps its ostensible subjects, which include strippers in traveling carnivals and forensic investigations of Saddam Hussein's campaign against the Kurds in northern Iraq. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,' through March 22. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive. A related show, ''The Poetics of Cloth: African Textiles/Recent Art,'' is at the Grey Art Gallery at New York University. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'EARLY BUDDHIST MANUSCRIPT PAINTING: THE PALM-LEAF TRADITION,' through March 22. Practical features like resilience and portability help explain why books written on dried palm leaves were popular with Buddhists in eastern India between the 10th and 13th centuries. But another factor, surely, was the quality of the illustrations that accompanied the texts: exquisite figures of divinities or scenes from the Buddha's life. And few of these are as finely done and pristinely preserved as the examples in this small selection. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'GIORGIO MORANDI, 1890-1964,' through Dec. 14. Aspirants to the role of painter as poet are many. Giorgio Morandi (1890-1964) was the real thing. And this Morandi retrospective at the Metropolitan Museum of Art is something that anyone who loves painting and its very specific poetry will want to see. Morandi's still lifes are beautiful, but with a distinctive kind of beauty. And despite their small size and plain components -- bottles, jars, boxes, pots, seashells, vases -- they are emotionally audacious. This isn't because of what they say outright, but because of what they don't say; because they are so evidently shaped by self-restraint, and the passions that produced it. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'LANDSCAPES CLEAR AND RADIANT: THE ART OF WANG HUI (1632-1717),' through Jan. 4. The Met's first solo show devoted to a Chinese master is gorgeous and revelatory; its focus is the landscape virtuoso Wang Hui, star of the 17th-century Chinese art scene. Wang could do anything and did, synthesizing and transforming disparate strands of almost a millennium of Chinese painting, but also making exact copies of earlier masterpieces. Distinguished by a Mozart-like ease and perfection, his work unsettles Western notions of copy, original and originality. It is aided in this by displays of works by 16 earlier artists dating to the 10th-century -- his mentors, his mentors' mentors and the artists they all revered -- which form a dazzling introduction to Chinese painting in general. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'RHYTHMS OF MODERN LIFE: BRITISH PRINTS 1914-1939,' through Dec. 7. This interesting but confusingly organized exhibition considers the impact of modernity and machine-age idealism on 13 progressive British printmakers. Much of the show is given over to a group of artists active in the 1920s and '30s -- including Claude Flight, Cyril E. Power and Sybil Andrews -- who created colorful linocuts in a lively synthesis of Cubism, Futurism and Art Deco. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: JOHN MILTON'S 'PARADISE LOST,' through Jan. 4. To honor Milton's quadricentennial, eight of the pages of the only known surviving manuscript of Book 1 of ''Paradise Lost'' are on view, along with other Miltoniana, including a first edition and a miniature portrait believed to be of the poet. The handwriting is a scribe's; Milton, who was blind, composed the work orally. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org.
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through Feb. 15. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a loveseat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PARIS/NEW YORK: DESIGN FASHION CULTURE, 1925-1940,' through Feb. 22. This compact yet kaleidoscopic exhibition celebrates the romance that flourished between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s, when French Art Deco was the style, American jazz was the music, and skyscrapers and sumptuous ocean liners were among the symbols of the age. Selected and installed to extract maximum wattage from every juxtaposition, object and image (including many surprisingly effective digital reproductions), it tracks the exchange of goods as much as of ideas, and the roles played by both department stores and museums, knock-offs and originals, businessmen (especially developers) and designers and artists. Most memorably, it clarifies a golden age of design and building, when New York became the world capital of Art Deco architecture. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Smith) 
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'KIRCHNER AND THE BERLIN STREET,' through Nov. 10. Focusing on seven paintings produced between 1913 and 1915 by the German Expressionist Ernst Ludwig Kirchner (1880-1938), this exhibition delivers a terrific visual wallop at the start and then continues to reverberate. Vigorously realized in jagged brush strokes of lurid pinks, greens and yellows and shades of charcoal black, the paintings depict stylishly dressed female streetwalkers and furtive, darkly cloaked men on the nocturnal, vertiginously tilted streets of an infernal city on the brink of a world-destroying war. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LOOKING AT MUSIC,' through Jan. 5. This exhibition of about 40 works from the museum's collection emphasizes the experimental nature of both art and music in the late 1960s and early '70s. The lines dividing art, music and film were blurry enough to allow Laurie Anderson, Bruce Nauman and Yoko Ono, among others, to shift from object making to performance and back again. The show, which includes audio recordings and small-press publications alongside more conventional mediums, is accompanied by an extensive film and video program. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'NEW PHOTOGRAPHY 2008: JOSEPHINE MECKSEPER AND MIKHAEL SUBOTZKY,' through Jan. 5. Josephine Meckseper, a German-born artist in her 40s who was trained at the California Institute of the Arts, makes sleek-looking installations that mix photography and film -- often scenes of political protest -- with consumer objects. The South African artist Mikhael Subotzky, who at 26 is the youngest photographer to have been invited to join the Magnum Group, explores his country's prison system in vivid color and unflinching detail. If Ms. Meckseper finds glossy, consumerist fantasy infiltrating our political consciousness, Mr. Subotzky reminds us that some people don't yet have the luxury of fretting about the commodification of dissent. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PIPE, GLASS, BOTTLE OF RUM: THE ART OF APPROPRIATION,' through Nov. 10. More than 100 works, mostly from the museum's drawing collection, represent many different ways of importing nontraditional images, materials, forms and techniques into the realm of art. The exhibition ranges from early Cubist collages by Picasso, Braques and Gris that have newsprint and faux-wood grain paper in them to the suave, agit-prop montages of Barbara Kruger printed on matchbooks and a shopping bag. Other artists include John Baldessari, Hannah Hoch, Sigmar Polke, Sherrie Levine and Richard Prince. (See above.) (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'VAN GOGH AND THE COLORS OF THE NIGHT,' through Jan. 5. This small, anomalous exhibition is a Van Gogh antiblockbuster with a seemingly counterintuitive theme, given the importance of the brilliant light of southern France to his art. It explores Van Gogh's special relationship with darkness, where his interests in perception, color and symbolism fuse with unexpected intensity. And seeing a manageable number of Van Goghs -- including masterpieces like ''The Potato Eaters,'' ''The Starry Night'' and ''Night Cafe'' -- in intimate galleries is thrilling. (See above.) (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WUNDERKAMMER: A CENTURY OF CURIOSITIES,' through Nov. 10. This exhibition of mostly prints and illustrated books gives too much space to artists in the Modern's pantheon or to predictable midmarket bench warmers. But it is inspired by a very un-Modern idea: the Renaissance wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities, a free-form collection of all things rare and marvelous, natural and man-made. Sensitively installed and rife with images of living, often grotesque creatures, it has the buzz of an aberrant ark and enough fresh material to sustain interest. The addition of a few objects from the museum's design collection is especially smart and effective; ignoring MoMA's departmental divisions is a good thing. (See above.) (Smith)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'GEORGE TOOKER: A RETROSPECTIVE,' through Jan. 4. George Tooker has painted some of the 20th century's most memorable images of angst. With its lost souls haunting the New York underground, ''Subway'' (1950) envisions modernity as a spiritual prison system. The Kafkaesque ''Government Bureau'' (1956) pictures an office of seemingly infinite dimensions, where people wait like penitents at the windows of terminally unresponsive bureaucrats. Both paintings are included in this richly affecting five-decade career retrospective. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Johnson)
 NEW MUSEUM: 'LIVE FOREVER: ELIZABETH PEYTON,' through Jan. 11. This lush midcareer survey pays tribute to an artist whose diminutive, irony-free, boldly colored portraits of friends, artists, rock stars and other historic figures, living and dead, have exerted considerable influence over the last 16 years. The reason is a complex, highly effective fusion of the painterly, the personal and the Conceptual, as well as a kind of reverse appropriation, wherein photographs and snapshots are given a new permanence, substance and most of all feeling by being re-engineered into unique art objects. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE: 'AARON DOUGLAS: AFRICAN-AMERICAN MODERNIST,' through Nov. 30. In 1920s New York a great flowering of black culture emerged that came to be known as the Harlem Renaissance. No visual artist expressed that movement's euphoric sense of possibility with greater verve than the subject of this valuable exhibition, the painter, illustrator and muralist Aaron Douglas. His major works feature semitransparent silhouettes of black people in heroic poses overlaid by concentric, circular bands of light. Rendered in muted, luminous colors, they project visionary romanticism in a suave, Art Deco-like style. 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200, nypl.org/research/sc. (Johnson)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEXANDER CALDER: THE PARIS YEARS, 1926-1933,' through Feb. 15. Is art glorified child's play, extending into adulthood, through a lifetime, picking up ideas and gaining finesse as it goes? That's one way to think of this exhibition, which focuses intently on one artist's child-within embodied in toys, cartoons and wire figures, with the Whitney's famous ''Calder's Circus'' as a centerpiece and a grown-up modernist surprise at the end. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 LIZA LOU It's no coincidence that Liza Lou's first New York appearance since a 2002 solo in SoHo takes place in an uptown town house and a Park Avenue lobby. Ms. Lou, a sculptor who makes hand-beaded versions of everyday objects and environments, has shifted from immersive installations (like the ''Kitchen'' and ''Back Yard'' exhibited at the New Museum in the mid-'90s) to highly marketable sculptures and relief paintings. The transition isn't all bad. Ms. Lou's beadwork is still dazzling, and she is certainly experimenting with different genres. The showstopper is ''Security Fence'' (2005-7), a shimmering 10-foot-square enclosure of barbed wire and chain-link steel completely covered with silver beads. (A similar sculpture, ''Maximum Security Fence,'' is on view in the lobby of Lever House, 390 Park Avenue, at 54th Street, through Nov. 29.) L & M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com; through Nov. 15 (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MEDARDO ROSSO Born in Turin, Italy, and trained in Milan, Medardo Rosso (1858-1928) crossed paths with Rodin in Paris, but they couldn't have been more dissimilar. Most of Rosso's sculptures were of bust-length heads, less portraits than distillations of feelings: joy, reverie, anxiety, exhaustion. And his subjects were often children, as is the case with three of the four pieces that make up this miraculous little show. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com, through Nov. 1. (Cotter)
 RIRKRIT TIRAVANIJA: 'DEMONSTRATION DRAWINGS' This ambitious conceptual show by Rirkrit Tiravanija is made up of some 200 small, highly detailed graphite drawings of political protests and demonstrations from around the world. Most of the images were derived from newspaper photographs and have the on-the-spot look of reportage. All were done by artists in Thailand working on generous commissions from Mr. Tiravanija, with proceeds from the sale of the pictures going to the Land Foundation, a sustainable housing community in Thailand. The results in the show: drawing, the sine qua non of ''real'' art, meets the real world, and paradoxes unroll. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org, through Nov. 6. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 DOUG AITKEN ''Migration,'' a riveting film on view in 303's new West 21st Street space, studies live species of wild North American animals released into ordinary hotel rooms. A big, hairy bison slowly walks around, knocking over furniture; a beaver swims in the bathtub; a young mountain lion pulls the blankets off the bed. At West 22nd Street a circular white room, in which all-blue, geometric watercolors are displayed, resembles a set from ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' 303 Gallery, 547 West 21st Street, through Nov. 1. 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com, through Nov. 8. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 'ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM: A WORLD ELSEWHERE' A gallery chain based in London and owned by an auction house opens in New York in an overdone, chopped-up space with a shapeless, absurdly unnecessary exhibition of paintings and sculptures by those mythic market stalwarts, the leaders of the New York School. Under crowded (auction-house-like) conditions await exceptional works by Clyfford Still, Franz Kline, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, David Smith and more, often lent by museums. That nothing is for sale is meant to impress, but it doesn't do much to reduce the aura of commercial savvy, or the sense that a history recounted often and better elsewhere is being told yet again for all the wrong reasons. Haunch of Venison, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, near 49th Street, Manhattan, (212) 636-2034, haunchofvenison.com, through Nov. 12. (Smith)
 'IMPLANT' Organized by a curator at the Horticultural Society of New York, ''Implant'' takes inspiration from Michael Pollan's 2001 book, ''The Botany of Desire,'' which suggests that plants are using us for evolutionary purposes just as much as we are using them. Musicians entertain the foliage in Peter Coffin's greenhouse; a tree in a digital animation by Hiraki Sawa trots on human legs through a Daliesque landscape. Roughly 100 works by 45 contemporary artists add to our sense of a gradual shift in the artist-plant relationship, from sublime awe in the face of nature to something more reciprocal. UBS Art Gallery, 1285 Avenue of the Americas, between 51st and 52nd Streets; (212) 713-2885, hsny.org, through Oct. 31. (Rosenberg)
 'OUT NOW!' The artist Anton Vidokle organized this exhibition to protest both the war in Iraq and the tepid response of American art institutions to that war. The work is tightly installed, text-intensive and hot with information. Among the contributors are the Irish journalist Patrick Cockburn; the peace activist Kathy Kelly; the writer Jalal Toufic; the artists Natasha Sadr Haghighian, Trevor Paglen and Martha Rosler; and the artist collective Friends of William Blake. E-Flux, 41 Essex Street, Lower East Side, (212) 619-3356, e-flux.com, through Nov 8. (Cotter)
 'THE POETICS OF CLOTH' Emphasizing the place of traditional textiles in works by contemporary African artists, this exhibition includes internationally renowned figures like the Nigerian-born Yinka Shonibare and the Ghanaian El Anatsui. One of the show's discoveries, Grace Ndiritu, uses printed fabrics in an evocative four-screen video installation -- allowing her bare limbs to peek out from behind curtains or posing as a mummified Olympia. A related show, ''The Essential Art of African Textiles: Design Without End,'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through Dec. 6. (Rosenberg) 
 * 'SCULPTING TIME' This exceptionally beautiful exhibition features four painters who are famous for repeating themselves over many years: Josef Albers, On Kawara, Giorgio Morandi and Roman Opalka. (A fifth, Andrew Grassi, who creates small, technically impressive Photorealist paintings, seems to have wandered in from another exhibition.) Sparely installed in a warren of eight intimate rooms, the show turns the gallery into a numinous aesthetic funhouse. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com, through Nov. 1. (Johnson)
 TADASKY In the 1960s Tadasky (Tadasuke Kuwayama) painted optically captivating compositions of concentric rings on square canvases. Excellent examples are included in a retrospective exhibition in D. Wigmore's ''Four Optic Visionaries,'' which also features works by Richard Anuszkiewicz, Sue Fuller and Mon Levinson, who were all included, along with Tadasky, in the Museum of Modern Art's famous 1965 exhibition ''The Responsive Eye.'' D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com, through Nov. 15. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'R. CRUMB'S UNDERGROUND,' through Dec. 7. The former underground comic artist R. Crumb has created some of the most memorable characters in cartoon history, including the irascible guru Mr. Natural; the suave, shamelessly randy Fritz the Cat; the angry Amazon Devil Girl; and R. Crumb himself, a figure comparable to the autobiographical alter-egos of Woody Allen and Philip Roth. He has been a fearlessly irreverent satirist and an intrepid explorer of his own twisted psyche. And he is excruciatingly funny. This enthralling show presents more than 100 works from all phases of his five-decade career. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia; (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
 Last Chance
 JOHN ALTOON Mr. Altoon (1925-1969), who made his name in the Los Angeles art scene of the 1950s and '60s and suffered a fatal heart attack shortly thereafter, is the latest West Coast artist to be exhumed by the contemporary market. In this exhibition of paintings and works on paper, organized by Klaus Kertess, Mr. Altoon's well-chronicled personal demons -- thrill seeking, womanizing, depression, paranoia -- are on full display. His drawings, in ink, watercolor, graphite and pastel on board, show men, women and animals engaged in explicitly violent and sexual interactions. Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 752-2929, maryboonegallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 RONNIE BASS: '2012' The main attraction of this auspicious first New York solo is a pair of videos in which the boyishly handsome Mr. Bass chants oracular lyrics to lush, synthesized music. It is hard to tell whether he is sincere or making fun of New-Age-style religiosity. You sense irony under the surface, but the mix of sadness and visionary consolation that he projects is truly touching. I-20, 557 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-1100, i-20.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 'BEGIN AGAIN RIGHT BACK HERE' With a small, early Sol LeWitt grid sculpture as touchstone, the curatorial debut of the artist B. Wurtz proves that less can be anything. The modest efforts of 14 artists, 3 designers and 1 writer -- including Vincent Fecteau, Sterling Ruby, Taylor Davis, Jessica Jackson Hutchins, Fawn Krieger, Anna Castelli and Wayne Koestenbaum -- variously mix aspects of sculpture, design object, architectural model, clothing or book. Their delicate mood is nicely confirmed or disrupted by smaller displays of Mark Barrow's texture-obsessed paintings; the raucous quilts of Violette Alby; and a 25-year survey of work by the talented Dan Asher, whose irresistible musical video ''Moonscape'' should not be missed. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street), West Village, (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JOSEF KOUDELKA: 'INVASION 68, PRAGUE' During a few days in August 1968, Josef Koudelka had his first experience as a street photographer, taking pictures inside history as it unfolded. He gave a firsthand account of life, death and resistance on the streets of Prague, as the mostly Soviet tanks of the Warsaw Pact crushed the lenient Communist government led by Alexander Dubcek. Although a few negatives were smuggled to the West immediately after the occupation, this throat-catching show is the largest yet devoted to them. Aperture Gallery, 547 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 505-5555, aperture.org; closes on Thursday. (Smith)
 SIMON LINKE Twenty years ago this London artist made a name for himself with his hand-painted copies of Artforum magazine ads. With the small, square paintings in this exhibition he has resumed that project. Almost all represent ads for famous artists, including Andy Warhol, Chris Ofili and Damien Hirst. Made with thick, buttery paint, they prompt meditation on the sacred and profane values of art. Mireille Mosler Ltd., 35 East 67th Street, (212) 249-4195, mireillemoslerltd.com; closes on Saturday. 
 (Johnson)
 DANIEL MCDONALD Daniel McDonald has been so important a part of the New York art scene since he arrived from California in 1989 that it's hard to believe that ''Bohemian Monsters'' is his first local solo show. This group of painstakingly made miniature environments, detailing the struggles of impoverished artists played by yesterday's B-movie horror film heroes, has been worth the wait. Broadway 1602, 1182 Broadway, at28th Street, Apartment 1602, Chelsea, (212) 481-0362; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JEFF KOONS ON THE ROOF' Panoramic views of Central Park and the Manhattan skyline from the Cantor Roof Garden are distracting, but the three sculptures now on display there are well worth visiting. Each is a greatly enlarged, glossily lacquered, stainless-steel representation of something small: a toy dog made of twisted-together balloons; a Valentine heart wrapped in red foil; and the silhouette of Piglet from a Winnie the Pooh coloring book randomly colored, as if by a young child. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 PUSHPAMALA N.: 'PARIS AUTUMN' In the past Pushpamala N. made a series of documentary-style pictures of South Asian ''types'' based on 19th-century European ethnography, playing all the parts herself. In another series, she was a Zoroesque super-heroine in a Bollywood film. A real film, a kind of cinema verite ghost story made up of projected stills, is the main event of her new show. Bose Pacia, 508 West 26th Street, 11th floor, Chelsea, (212) 989-7074; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'NEW INTUITIONS: LESLIE HEWITT, TANEA RICHARDSON AND SAYA WOOLFALK' The contrasting artistic sensibilities of the latest participants in the Studio Museum's artists-in-residence program maintain its impressive record. Leslie Hewitt, the most accomplished, extends the image-text combination of Conceptual Art in photographs and sculpture. Tanea Richardson, less mature but in some ways more complete, gives found fabrics and abstract form a special vehemence. Saya Woolfalk, a whiz in several mediums (starting with sewing), contributes a video, ''Ethnography of No Place,'' that drags a bit, but is a tour de force of performance, animation, born-again Pattern and Decoration, soft sculpture and anthropological satire. In each case race and ethnicity are among many other issues tackled. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KEHINDE WILEY, THE WORLD STAGE: AFRICA, LAGOS-DAKAR,' In 10 recent works Kehinde Wiley shifts the focus of his big, flashy pictures of young African-American men recast as the kings, dandies, and saints of European painting to young African men in the poses of African sculpture. The show reveals a young artist who, despite several years of hotness, is only now beginning to make paintings that don't feel mostly like campy, gaudy illustrations. The compositions are calmer, the details less fussy, and the figures are painted with a new solidity and emotional directness. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 JEFF WHETSTONE: 'POST-PLEISTOCENE' The human urge to leave a mark has developed extensively, but caves -- the first canvases -- have never been left behind. Proof positive are 10 large, haunting color photographs in this engrossing New York debut. They record the accumulated drawings, signatures, messages and graffiti in caves in Tennessee and Alabama. The tools range from rocks and charcoal (such as the original cave painters used) to fluorescent spray paint; the mark makers range from slaves to contemporary teen-agers. The result is an inadvertent cultural cross-section that is sometimes beautiful and always eerie. Julie Saul Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 SUE WILLIAMS: 'PROJECT FOR THE NEW AMERICAN CENTURY' In this bifurcated show the artist starts to recapture the energy and fury of the crudely painted, scathingly feminist cartoon paintings that established her reputation in the first place in a series of small, messy, politically motivated works on acetate. The larger and more expensive items have a new level of visual nastiness, but they are also more drawn than painted -- in fact, their mechanical, textilelike exquisiteness is exactly the problem that the smaller efforts avoid. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2070; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JORDAN WOLFSON: 'UNTITLED FALSE DOCUMENT' Jordan Wolfson's enigmatic first New York solo begins with an anteroom empty except for a wraparound line of low metal benches that suggest institutional seating, and it continues in a larger, dimly lighted second gallery showing a video within a video. If meanings are unclear, the bare-bones installation gives us a lot to work with, imaginatively. Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Broome Street, third floor, (212) 925-2035, swissinstitute.net; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); STREET ART (79%); PAINTING (79%); OLYMPICS (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); RELIGION (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); NIGERIA (67%); UNITED KINGDOM (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



974 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vows More Help for Homeowners

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With foreclosures mounting, Bush administration officials said Thursday that they were preparing to step up efforts to help struggling homeowners.
 A senior policy maker told a Senate committee that the administration was working on a plan under which the government would offer to shoulder some of the losses on loans that are modified.
 The insurance program could cost tens of billions of dollars, according to a person briefed on discussions about the plan, and would be run by the Treasury Department under the $700 billion financial rescue bill Congress passed earlier this month. 
 The remarks about the plan, made by Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, came as a new report showed that foreclosure filings jumped 71 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. At the hearing, Congressional Democrats criticized the administration for not doing enough to help homeowners even as the Treasury and Federal Reserve have moved to inject hundreds of billions of dollars into banks and the financial system.
 Ms. Bair, who has been one of the most ardent proponents of loan modifications, acknowledged that more needed to be done. ''We are behind the curve,'' Ms. Bair told the Senate Banking Committee. ''We are falling behind. There has been some progress, but it's not been enough, and we need to act and we need to act quickly and we need to act dramatically.''
 Details of the plan are expected in the next week or two. Ms. Bair told senators that policy makers were contemplating creating standardized loan modification practices that would be used by mortgage servicing firms, which handle billing and collection on behalf of investors and banks. Loans modified under those principles would qualify for a partial federal guarantee. In other words, if homeowners defaulted on their loan again, part of the loss would be borne by the government. It was unclear whether investors or homeowners would have to pay premiums for that protection.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee, commended the program, which he said he wrote into the rescue package in consultation with Ms. Bair. 
 ''This slender provision alone could help countless deserving Americans escape the foreclosure trap,'' he said.
 The guarantee program would be used alongside another element of the rescue plan that would have the government directly purchase and modify mortgages.
 Since late last year, the government has tried various approaches to limit foreclosures, but analysts say those efforts have not done enough to stem rising defaults. A recent analysis by Rod Dubitsky of Credit Suisse, showed that 44 percent of borrowers whose loans were modified but whose monthly payment did not decrease fell behind on payments again in the next eight months. By contrast, that rate was 15 to 23 percent for modifications that lowered payments, depending on which loan terms were changed.
 Why more loans are not being modified is the subject of heated debate. Some in the industry say it is hard to reach borrowers and many of them do not want to stay in their homes anyway. Advocates for low-income homeowners say servicing firms are overwhelmed by defaults. People on both sides acknowledge that modifications are complicated because most mortgages are no longer held by banks. Instead, they are packaged into securities. 
 The administration's latest approach of guaranteeing loans appears to be intended to give the servicing firms an incentive to modify loans in ways that they may have been reluctant to do so far. The guarantee could strengthen the hand of firms in discussion with investors who are upset about modifications.
 Earlier this summer, Congress created another program, Hope for Homeowners, that also offers government guarantees, though under different terms. In that plan, servicing firms that willingly write down delinquent loans and pay a premium can have the loan refinanced by new mortgages that are guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration. When homeowners eventually sell their homes, they have to share any profits with the government.
 In the Senate hearing, Brian D. Montgomery, the F.H.A. commissioner, said that the program started operating on Oct. 1 but added that ''it will take time for the lending community to get the program up and running.''
 Earlier on Thursday, RealtyTrac, a default-tracking service, reported that foreclosure filings jumped by more than 71 percent in the third quarter, to 765,000, from the period a year earlier. There was a slight dip in filings in September, from August, but the company said that decrease was caused by new laws in some states like California and North Carolina that have delayed the start of some foreclosures. In Massachusetts, which enacted a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures three months earlier, default filings surged in September.
 RealtyTrac tracks foreclosures based on court filings in 2,200 counties. Critics have said that multiple court filings on each home inflate its statistics. RealtyTrac says it adjusts its data to account for multiple filings.
 At the White House, Mr. Bush's press secretary, Dana Perino, warned that the country was in for ''a rocky road'' on ''the employment front.'' She also said the administration expects next week's report on third-quarter gross domestic product ''not to be a good one, and the next quarter could probably be tough as well.''
 The remarks were significant, coming from a White House that has traditionally been reluctant to offer forecasts in advance of reports. But Ms. Perino said she was ''just trying to be realistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheila Bair of the F.D.I.C. with the Treasury's Neel Kashkari at Wednesday's hearing of the Senate Banking Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
From left, Sheila Bair
Neel Kashkari
Brian Montgomery, of the F.H.A.
 James Lockhart III of the Federal Housing Finance Agency and Elizabeth Duke of the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/GETTY IMAGES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



975 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2525 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 'TO SAVE AND PROTECT: THE SIXTH MOMA INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF FILM PRESERVATION' (Friday through Thursday) This annual survey of newly restored and preserved films from archives around the world begins on Friday with the Museum of Modern Art's own restoration of Melvin Van Peebles's historic blaxploitation film of 1971, ''Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song,'' with Mr. Van Peebles present for the unveiling. This week's other offerings include ''Millions Like Us'' (Friday and Thursday), the first feature directed by the British screenwriting team of Frank Launder and Sidney Gilliat; a new print of Michael Curtiz's 1934 James Cagney vehicle, ''Jimmy the Gent,'' struck from the original camera negative by the Library of Congress (Saturday and Thursday); the Swiss Cinematheque's reconstruction of Frank Borzage's fragmentary 1929 film ''The River'' (Saturday); and Vilgot Sjoman's once-notorious ''I Am Curious (Yellow),'' as preserved by the Swedish Film Institute (Monday). On Wednesday two films reclaimed by the Women's Film Preservation Fund will be shown: Jacki Ochs's 1983 documentary on the use of Agent Orange in Vietnam, ''The Secret Agent,'' and Leonard Anderson's 1947 musical comedy ''That Man of Mine,'' featuring Ruby Dee and Ann Mae Winburne's International Sweethearts of Rhythm. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. 
 (Dave Kehr)
 23RD ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL (Wednesday and Thursday) Here's one film festival that begins with an award presentation: Danny DeVito, Irwin Winkler and Ed Zwick will be presented with assorted honors on Wednesday night at the Ziegfeld Theater, with a screening of Reshef Levy's popular Israeli drama ''Lost Islands'' to follow the ceremony. The festival, which calls itself ''the largest showcase of Israeli films in the U.S.,'' continues on Thursday at the Clearview Cinema, where it will run through Nov. 13. The lineup includes a generous selection of feature films, television productions, documentaries and short films. Ziegfeld Theater, 141 West 54th Street, Manhattan; Clearview Cinema, 62nd and Broadway, (877) 966-5566, ny.israelfilmfestival.com; $125 on opening night; $12 for other screenings. (Kehr)
 TWO FILMS BY JON JOST (Friday) An independent among independents, Mr. Jost has been making his experimental fictions from various bases around the world since the 1970s. This program consists of two films: ''Oui Non'' (7 p.m.), set in Paris, in which a conventional boy-meets-girl story is presented in collision with what Mr. Jost calls ''the reality of life -- a disordered mess,'' and Mr. Jost's most recent feature, ''Over Here'' (9 p.m.), a drama about returning Iraqi war veterans shot in 10 days ''with no script at all'' in collaboration with actors from the Portland, Ore., area. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-3809, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'APPALOOSA' (R, 1:47) Ed Harris, who directed, stars with Viggo Mortensen, Renee Zellweger and Jeremy Irons in this sly, relaxed western, which is less concerned with gunfighting and law and order than with jealousy, friendship and the perils of frontier romance. It's a somber shoot-em-up with the mischievous soul of a sex comedy. (A. O. Scott)
 'AZUR & ASMAR' (PG, 1:39) Unfolding in a flat, luminous storybook style, this handsome animated fable from France tells of two boys on a quest to release an enchanted fairy and re-establish their childhood friendship. 
 (Nathan Lee) 
 'BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA' (PG, 1:25) As multimillion-dollar frivolities about the pets of the ruling class go, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is reasonably diverting. As one released in the middle of an economic meltdown, its mere existence feels utterly insane. (Lee)
 'BODY OF LIES' (R, 2:06) Ridley Scott's new movie raises a potentially disturbing question. If terrorism has become boring, does that mean that the terrorists have won? Or, conversely, is the grinding tedium of this film good news for our side, evidence of the awesome might of Western popular culture, which can turn even the most bloodthirsty real-world villains into fodder for contrived and lifeless action thrillers? (Scott)
 'BURN AFTER READING' (R, 1:36) A predictably self-amused comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen with a tricky plot, visual style, er, to burn, but so little heart as to warrant a Jarvik 8. With George Clooney, Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHRISTMAS ON MARS' (No rating, 1:25) The Oklahoma band the Flaming Lips are the stars of this dreamy movie, which loosely concerns a remote, imperiled Red Planet outpost on Christmas Eve. The lead singer, Wayne Coyne, who directed, plays a horned alien who arrives in a glowing orb and dons a Santa suit. But forget plot; it's all about the black-and-white images, bursts of psychedelia and homemade-looking but sometimes lyrical effects. And the great soundtrack. (Andy Webster)
 'CITY OF EMBER' (PG, 1:35) In this science-fiction juvenilia, adapted from Jeanne DePrau's children's novel, two fresh-faced adolescents discover the path to freedom from a dying subterranean city whose power source is breaking down. (Stephen Holden)
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives. (Dargis)
 'THE DUCHESS' (PG-13, 1:45) An overstuffed, underbaked portrait of the cosseted, tightly corseted late-18th-century life of Georgiana Spencer, the Duchess of Devonshire. Saul Dibbs directs, Keira Knightley stars, and Ralph Fiennes acts. (Dargis)
 'EAGLE EYE' (PG-13, 1:58) Shia LaBoeuf and Michelle Monaghan on the run from something. From what? A ticked-off government computer, apparently. Did I spoil it? Sorry. I mean, you're welcome. (Scott)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'THE EXPRESS' (PG, 2:09) Like ''Glory Road,'' ''The Great Debate'' and numerous similar movies, ''The Express'' packages a real-life story of athletic triumph and social progress into an accessible, rousing melodrama that is no less potent for being almost entirely predictable. (Scott)
 'FILTH AND WISDOM' (No rating, 1:24) Pop go the dialectics in a debut feature tale of bumping and grinding your way to happiness from the hardest-working hard body in show business, Madonna. (Dargis)
 'FIREPROOF' (PG, 2:02) In this film aimed at the Christian market, Kirk Cameron plays a firefighter who tries to save his marriage by embarking on a faith-based regimen called the Love Dare, but his wife (Erin Bethea) seems unresponsive. It's a much better attempt to merge storytelling with faith than is usual for the genre, and the amateur cast is surprisingly good.
 (Neil Genzlinger)
 'FLASH OF GENIUS' (PG-13, 2:00) In this doggedly workmanlike and passionless variation on the lone crusader doing battle with the big, bad establishment, Greg Kinnear plays the real-life inventor of the intermittent windshield wiper who sued Ford for stealing his patent. (Holden)
 'FLYME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FRONTRUNNERS' (No rating, 1:23) Without forcing comparisons, this mild-mannered documentary finds parallels between the national presidential elections and a recent competition for the presidency of the student union at Stuyvesant High School in New York City. (Holden)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Holden)
 'GOOD DICK' (R, 1:26) In this perverse romantic comedy, the filmmaker Marianna Palka also stars as a compulsive masturbator with a preference for cheesy '80s pornography. Jason Ritter is the sweet-natured video-store employee who supplies the tapes. Funny, abrasive and oddly innocent, this barbed standoff between longing and denial is sweetened by exceptional acting and a sincere belief in the salvation of its wounded characters. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'HAPPY-GO-LUCKY' (R, 1:58) Happiness is a complicated, difficult matter, and for the bopping bloom at the center of Mike Leigh's generous, expansive new film -- a gurgling stream of giggles, laughs and words played by a glorious Sally Hawkins -- it's also a question of faith. (Dargis)
 'IGOR' (PG, 1:26) An animated twist on the Frankenstein story that never sparks to life, ''Igor'' inhabits a cloud-covered kingdom where evil scientists are rewarded for diabolical inventions. John Cusack competently voices the hunchbacked servant who assembles a female monster, but kiddies will be undiverted by the humdrum animation and a palette that mirrors the film's moral and meteorological gloom. (Catsoulis)
 'I SERVED THE KING OF ENGLAND' (R, 1:58, in Czech) There is hardly a moment in this picaresque slapstick epic, directed by Jiri Menzel (''Closely Watched Trains'') and set mainly in 1930s and '40s Czechoslovakia that you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events. (Holden)
 'LAKEVIEW TERRACE' (PG-13, 1:46) In this silly exercise in mock provocation, Samuel L. Jackson plays a Los Angeles police officer who terrorizes his new neighbors, a perfectly nice interracial couple played by Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington. (Scott)
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MIRACLE AT ST. ANNA' (PG-13, 2:40) Spike Lee's World War II drama about a squad of African-American soldiers fighting in Italy is overlong and ungainly, but it has enough moments of warmth and conviction to make it a worthy addition to the combat genre. (Scott)
 'MORNING LIGHT' (PG, 1:45) Following 15 amateur sailors as they prepare for the Transpac -- the Kentucky Derby of open-sea racing -- Mark Monroe's sweepingly beautiful documentary is ultimately unmoored by democratic intentions. For all its sparkling seascapes and shiny, happy faces, this is sunny-side-up filmmaking that sacrifices dramatic focus for generic observations, never finding a way to make us care who wins. (Catsoulis)
 'NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST' (PG-13, 1:30) Teenagers falling in love on the tame night streets of Manhattan. As thin as an iPod Nano and as sweetly self-conscious as a Facebook page, but not without charm. (Scott)
 'NIGHTS IN RODANTHE' (PG-13, 1:37) Richard Gere and Diane Lane fumble like teenagers and mouth some pitiful, platitudinous, risible dialogue in a soggy romance directed by George C. Wolfe and based on a Nicholas Sparks book. (Dargis)
 'QUARANTINE' (R, 1:26) The recent resurgence of the pseudo-documentary horror movie continues with this tale of a television news team trapped in an urban apartment building whose residents are harboring a mysterious infection. Cleverly working his claustrophobic setting (and the adapted script from the Spanish movie ''[REC]''), the director, John Erick Dowdle, keeps the action tight and the injuries nasty. (Catsoulis)
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'RELIGULOUS' (R, 1:41) The comedian and outspoken religious nonbeliever Bill Maher travels the world interviewing Christians, Jews and Muslims about their beliefs, which he views as dangerous nonsense. (Holden)
 'ROCKNROLLA' (R, 1:57) In his latest, the director Guy Ritchie pumps up the volume, tilts the camera, flexes the muscle, struts the stuff for some bang bang, blah blah. (Dargis)
 'A SECRET' (No rating, 1:45, in French) Claude Miller's adaptation of Philippe Grimbert's autobiographical novel is a subtle and moving exploration of intimacy and desire in a French Jewish family before and after World War II. (Scott)
 'SEX DRIVE' (R, 1:48) Sean Anders's aggressively puerile, fitfully amusing and sluggish teenage sex comedy reserves all its creativity for ways to revolt and ostensibly delight its target audience. (Dargis)
 'TALENTO DE BARRIO' (R, 1:47, in Spanish and English) Daddy Yankee, the reggaeton star, tries acting here, and looks as if he might have some ability in that department, but the story is so cliched that it's hard to tell. He plays a gangster who rules a ratty slum in Puerto Rico but -- guess what? -- he aspires to be a performer. Will his drug-dealing past drag him down, or can he escape the bad life? Original it ain't. (Genzlinger)
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller (same name) is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden)
 'TROUBLE THE WATER' (No rating, 1:33) While making this superb documentary about that natural and unnatural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin hit the jackpot when they meet two New Orleans survivors, Kimberly and Scott Roberts, who rode out the storm with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'TYLER PERRY'S THE FAMILY THAT PREYS' (PG-13, 1:51) The suds that cascade through Tyler Perry melodrama more than equal the cubic footage from nighttime soaps like ''Dallas,'' ''Dynasty'' and their offspring. (Holden)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'W.' (PG-13, 2:09) Neither a pure (nor impure) sendup of the president nor a wholesale takedown, Oliver Stone's queasily entertaining biopic reminds us what a long, strange trip it's been to the Bush White House. Josh Brolin stars as the frat boy who would be king. (Dargis)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption and a movie entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Sixth MoMA International Festival of Film Preservation, at the Museum of Modern Art, misstated part of the festival's title. It is ''To Save and Project,'' not ''Protect.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (79%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (77%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); THEATER (59%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (55%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



976 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: E3 Expo Powers Up

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Here's another sign that the video game business seems impervious to the economic woes afflicting other parts of the entertainment industry: The gaming business's annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, known as E3, will return to its expansive (and expensive) home at the Los Angeles Convention Center in 2009, according to an announcement on the E3 Expo Web site (e3expo.com). A significantly scaled-down version of E3 was held last year and this year, after complaints from attendees that the convention was growing too noisy and costly. The 2009 convention is expected to be visited by about 40,000 industry professionals from June 2 to 4, but will not be open to the public. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); TOYS & GAMES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



977 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Everybody's Voting For the Weekend

BYLINE: By STEVE ISRAEL and NORMAN J. ORNSTEIN. 
Steve Israel is a Democratic representative from New York. Norman J. Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, is the co-founder of Why Tuesday?, a nonpartisan group seeking to increase voter participation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 BY Nov. 4, more than $5 billion will have been spent trying to persuade voters to cast their presidential and congressional ballots one way or another. Despite all the money and the news media hysteria, and even with record numbers of Americans heading to the polls, the United States won't even come close to the top nations in the world for voter turnout. We will be well behind -- to name just a few -- Iceland, Sweden and New Zealand. 
 What do those countries, among many others, have in common? Their citizens all vote on a weekend day. But in the United States, for more than 150 years, we've voted on Tuesday. Why? It's not in the Constitution. It isn't to avoid holidays. And it's not because people hate Mondays.
 The reason we vote on Tuesday makes perfect sense -- at least it did in 1845.
 To understand the decision Congress made that year, let's imagine ourselves as members of early agrarian American society. Saturday was for farming, Sunday was the Lord's day, Monday was required for travel to the county seat where the polling places were, Tuesday you voted, Wednesday you returned home, and Thursday it was back to work.
 It's a safe bet that today most Americans don't follow the same schedule as our farming forefathers. In fact, for many, Tuesday is one of the most inconvenient days to hold an election. One in four people who didn't vote in 2006 said that they were ''too busy'' or had ''conflicting work or school schedules.'' 
 Legislation now before Congress would finally tailor our voting system to modern American life by establishing weekend voting for national elections. (Mr. Israel is sponsoring the bill in the House.) Here's how it would work: The presidential election would be held on the Saturday and Sunday after the first Friday in November, while for those who aren't often home on the weekends, there would be a few days of early voting. 
 Our current system penalizes single parents, people working two jobs, and those who have to choose between getting a paycheck and casting a ballot. Two weekend days of voting means those working families would have a greater chance of making it to the polls. It means easing the long lines during rush hour at the polling sites. It means more locations, more poll workers and more voters.
 Some have suggested making Election Day a holiday, but that would involve a serious cost to the economy. Moving Election Day to the weekend means more convenience and less expense. 
 Making a change like this won't be easy, but it's not unprecedented. In 1968, Congress passed the Monday Holiday law, which moved Memorial Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day and Washington's Birthday from their original dates to Mondays. If we can alter our federal holidays to benefit shoppers and travelers, surely we can change Election Day for the benefit of our voters.
 Let's take a cue from the Congress of 1845 and ensure that voting is available to as many working Americans as possible -- not just those who can make it to the polls on a Tuesday. 
 Paul Krugman and David Brooks, whose columns are normally published on Fridays, will appear on the Op-Ed page this Sunday in a special election edition. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY IVORY SIMMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); COUNTIES (73%); FAMILY (68%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ICELAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



978 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Fact, Fiction and the Financial Mess

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''A Matter of Life and Debt'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 22), Margaret Atwood would have us believe that a lack of a sense of fairness is at the root of the financial crisis. To the contrary, it was a sense of fairness that got us into it.
 The notion that it was unfair for people with limited means not to be able to own homes is what produced the lending patterns that have come back to haunt us. It was the bundling of the loans into derivative instruments, a consequence of an optimistic blind faith in capitalism as a religion instead of an economic system, that led to this catastrophe. 
 Since Ms. Atwood is a novelist, she might have been aware that it was the transformation of credit into a fiction that blinded the traders, much as it did during the South Sea Bubble that devastated England. The road to hell is, indeed, paved with good intentions.
 Richard Cummings
 Sag Harbor, N.Y., Oct. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Margaret Atwood reminds us that there has almost always been a social contract in which all humans, who are ultimately brothers and sisters, are expected to treat one another with decency and respect. Now we are suffering and seeing the consequences of forgetting this basic lesson in the form of predatory lending or reckless ''investing.''
 Those citizens who did not show decency and respect to others were seduced by greed. Unless and until we re-establish a mutual respect for one another regardless of our incomes or education, we shall just go from this current crisis to a new one.
 Theodore S. Voelker
 Copake, N.Y., Oct. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Margaret Atwood is a fine novelist but a poor moralist. The common good she speaks of cannot be promoted literally since such a good is impossible to know, if it exists at all other than as an utterly general idea. The ''we'' that one can care about is a small number of intimates, whom one knows and can effectively benefit. 
 The American founders had the best idea of the common good: securing the rights of all to life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. This is a common good that avoids meddling in the lives of people one doesn't know, leaving them to do the best for themselves, their families and their friends, instead of aiming for a utopian, impossible and futile ideal.
 Tibor R. Machan
 Silverado, Calif., Oct. 22, 2008
 The writer is a professor at the Argyros School of Business and Ethics at Chapman University and a research fellow at the Hoover Institution.
 To the Editor:
 According to the Greek historian Herodotus, in the ancient Persian Empire there were only two behaviors that would result in social ostracism -- telling a lie and going into debt. Seems as if we might learn a few things from these old civilizations. Lois Taylor
 Old Greenwich, Conn., Oct. 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 My husband and I did the ''right thing'' -- two professionals saving 10 percent of our incomes. Fiscal responsibility! 
 Happily ever after changed; he suddenly passed on. I vowed with his spirit and God that regardless, our child would have every opportunity.
 The portfolio we built together was decimated. A pattern between Wall Street and Washington potentially jeopardized a solemn pact. What happened to me could happen to others, even you. 
 There is no lack in America, a country of prosperity, only an engrained pattern of misdirected power at the expense of the middle class. I can roll up my sleeves to rebuild, but not alone.
 My ''American Dream'' became a nightmare, but I pray that joy will come on the morning of Nov. 5, 2008.
 Valerie White
 Tampa, Fla., Oct. 22, 2008

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2008 

 CORRECTION:
A letter on Friday from Silverado, Calif., about the financial crisis misstated part of the name of the school where the writer is a professor. It is the Argyros School of Business and Economics (not Business and Ethics) at Chapman University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ETHICS (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); PREDATORY LENDING (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); RELIGION (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); HISTORY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



979 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: After 35-Year Lull, Nuclear Power May Be in Early Stages of a Revival

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After three decades without starting a single new plant, the American nuclear power industry is getting ready to build again.
When the industry first said several years ago that it would resume building plants, deep skepticism greeted the claim. Not since 1973 had anybody in the United States ordered a nuclear plant that was actually built, and the obstacles to a new generation of plants seemed daunting.
But now, according to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 21 companies say they will seek permission to build 34 power plants, from New York to Texas. Factories are springing up in Indiana and Louisiana to build reactor parts. Workers are clearing a site in Georgia to put in reactors. Starting in January, millions of electric customers in Florida will be billed several dollars a month to finance four new reactors.
On Thursday, the French company Areva, the world's largest builder of nuclear reactors, and Northrop Grumman announced an investment of more than $360 million at a shipyard in Newport News, Va., to build components for seven proposed American reactors, and more for export. 
The change of fortune has come so fast that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which had almost forgotten how to accept an application, has gone into a frenzy of hiring, bringing on hundreds of new engineers to handle the crush of applications.
Many problems could derail the so-called nuclear revival, and virtually no one believes all 34 proposed plants will be built. It is still unclear how many billions they would cost, whether the expense can be financed in a troubled credit market, and how the cost might compare with other power sources.
But experts who follow the industry expect that at least some of the 34 will be built.
Given rising public concern about global warming and a recent history of reliable operation among nuclear plants, ''the climate for introducing new plants is probably the best it's been since the industry started canceling plants'' 30 years ago, said Brian Balogh, a history professor at the University of Virginia. Unlike most types of power generation, nuclear plants do not emit the gases that cause global warming, once they are completed.
In the United States, orders for new reactors essentially ended in October 1973. That was also the month that the Arab oil embargo began, inaugurating an era of economic problems that drove up construction costs and suppressed demand for power. In the end, more than 100 nuclear reactors, some in advanced stages of construction, were canceled, and tens of billions of dollars were squandered.
On top of that, the Three Mile Island accident in 1979 and the Chernobyl explosion in 1986 made nuclear power a hard sell. And cheap turbines were developed to burn natural gas to generate electricity. By the 1990s, even some nuclear plants that had been running for a few years were deemed too costly and were closed.
But nuclear power never went away. The United States has 104 commercial reactors in operation, and the industry has improved their reliability markedly, increasing their output. They generate almost 20 percent of the country's electric power.
As concerns over global warming and natural gas supplies have worsened, strong support has developed in Congress and some states for new reactors. The governor of Maryland recently cited a ''moral imperative'' to build plants to counter the threat of climate change. Support for new reactors has long been strong in some localities, particularly those that are candidates for billions of dollars in construction work.
And investment dollars are starting to flow.
''We have a long-term vision,'' Anne Lauvergeon, chief executive of Areva, said in an interview here on Thursday, explaining her company's decision to join forces with Northrop Grumman at Newport News.
To help spur a revival, Congress provided $18.5 billion in loan guarantees in a 2005 energy law, plus operating subsidies similar to those available for solar and wind power, and insurance against regulatory delays.
Little effective political opposition to new reactors has emerged so far. The environmental movement is spending its energy fighting new coal-burning power plants, with considerable effect. While few environmental advocates are enthusiastic about nuclear power, a handful acknowledge it could play a role in countering global warming.
''There is no question that some of the passion of the antinuclear movement has drained away,'' said Professor Balogh, who is the author of a 1990 book on opposition to nuclear power.
Worried about its ability to build coal plants, but needing new power plants to meet rising electric demand, the utility industry is determined to move ahead on nuclear power. While most spending so far is on engineering work and environmental studies, physical work is in the early stages, as well.
The Georgia Power Company wants new units adjacent to its two Vogtle reactors, finished in the 1980s, and workers there are tearing down old buildings left over from that construction to make space for new construction.
At the Port of Lake Charles, La., the Shaw Group and Westinghouse Electric, owned by Toshiba, are building a factory bigger than 10 football fields that will make components for new reactors in the United States and around the world. BWX Technologies, a subsidiary of McDermott International, is setting up a plant in Mount Vernon, Ind., to resume manufacturing reactor vessels and other big components. Both companies expect work for years to come.
The industry's most intractable problem, what to do with spent nuclear fuel, has not been solved. The government was supposed to begin accepting spent fuel for burial in 1998 but now says it will be 2017 at the earliest, and it is not clear that the site under study, Yucca Mountain in Nevada, will win a license.
But companies that want to build say the industry could make do for the next few decades with an above-ground ''interim storage'' site. That might mean centralized storage in a remote desert facility.
Some skeptics argue that a technology that needs taxpayer help on a large scale should not be built. In fact, construction costs for power plants of all kinds have risen sharply in the last two years, creating special problems for nuclear power, which has more steel and concrete than other plants of equal output. By some estimates costs have more than doubled since 2000.
The critics argue that the same money spent elsewhere -- on wind power, or on retrofitting buildings -- could create bigger cuts in carbon dioxide output. Joseph J. Romm, an official in the Energy Department during the Clinton administration, pointed to a recent estimate by Florida Power & Light that a new reactor could cost a steep $8,000 for each kilowatt of capacity -- enough power to run a window air-conditioner. That is at least double what a coal-burning power plant would cost, and Mr. Romm said that it was only the preconstruction estimate of an industry famous for cost overruns.
He said the plants would be hard to finance. ''I just read that McDonald's was having trouble getting money, and there's not a lot of risk in building a new McDonald's,'' he said. ''Obviously, the risks with a nuclear plant are enormous.''
He predicted a return to the problem of the 1970s -- high prices for electricity driving electric demand down so much that plants under construction were no longer needed. Some people say they believe more political opposition will emerge once some of the proposed plants move closer to construction.
At the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group in Washington that frequently criticizes the nuclear industry, David A. Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer, said it was too soon to say that opposition was weaker now than during construction of the older plants, when grandmothers tried to block bulldozers.
''We've got the grandmothers; we just don't have the bulldozers,'' he said. ''There's not the Kodak moment that a lot of these protests need.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A nuclear plant in Flamanville, France, being built by Areva, which says it plans to make reactor parts in Newport News, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXIS MORIN/EDF GROUP) CHART: Sites for Proposed Reactors: The federal government has received or expects to receive applications to build 34 new nuclear reactors at 23 sites. For three of the projects, the locations have not yet been disclosed. (Source: Nuclear Regulatory Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HISTORY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: AREVA SA (90%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (90%); NOC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (91%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



980 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A California Ballot Measure Offers Rights for Farm Animals

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In the end, it all comes down to eggs.
 On Nov. 4, California voters will be asked to decide on Proposition 2, an animal rights ballot measure that would grant the farm animals in California the opportunity to spread their hooves and claws, rather than being confined to restrictive cages, as many chickens, sows and veal cattle now are. 
 But because veal and pork are not major industries in California, the battle over Proposition 2 is focused almost exclusively on the state's henhouses, which opponents say will be hard hit by higher production costs if the measure passes. 
 ''This is a well-intended initiative for animals with some very negative unintended consequences for people,'' said Julie Buckner, a spokeswoman for Californians for Safe Food, the leading anti-Proposition 2 group. ''It's going to wipe out the California egg farmers, and it's going to raise the food costs for consumers. And this is at a time when our economy is hurting.'' 
 Supporters of the proposition, the first of its kind in the nation, reject those arguments, casting the ballot measure as an act of kindness for animals whose bodies and byproducts usually end up on dining room tables.
 ''If animals are going to be killed for food,'' said Wayne Pacelle, the president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States, ''the least we can do is treat them with decency and give them a semblance of life.''
 The two sides do agree that the ballot issue is sure to be the most expensive -- and quite likely the most bruising -- animal rights campaign ever. The Humane Society alone has already given about $4 million toward the campaign for Proposition 2, about half of what Mr. Pacelle thinks his side will spend before Nov. 4. 
 Californians for Safe Food had raised more than $6.7 million by the end of September, according to federal election documents, with scores of donations from agricultural operations around the country, including egg companies in Colorado, Georgia and Minnesota.
 California is the nation's fifth-largest producer -- and No. 1 consumer -- of eggs, producing an estimated $337 million worth in 2007. Nationwide, the country produces about 77 billion table eggs a year -- 250 per American -- valued at about $6.7 billion. 
 Considering the market at stake, it is not surprising that Proposition 2 has supplied some of the election season's most emotionally charged advertisements. One, by supporters, shows images of abused animals on factory farms, while opponents' commercials have warned that the measure would lead to the importation of unsafe eggs from Mexico.
 Opponents have pressed a line of attack that suggests that Proposition 2 -- which would require that animals be provided room to turn around, lie down, stand up and fully extend their limbs -- could expose birds, via contact with their own waste and that of other animals, to such dreaded diseases as salmonella and avian influenza. They also argue that standard egg-laying cages -- a little more than eight inches square -- actually protect hens from aggression by other birds and predators. 
 Mr. Pacelle calls such arguments ''far-fetched and ridiculous.'' 
 Still, the proposition, which would take effect in 2015, has led to a division between some small-animal ''pet vets'' and large-animal agricultural veterinarians. In September, several agricultural veterinarians formed a group separate from the 6,000-member California Veterinary Medical Association, the state's leading veterinary group, over the association's support for Proposition 2.
 One of those who split was Dr. Nancy D. T. Reimers, a poultry veterinarian who has been paid for work for Californians for Safe Food. Dr. Reimers said people often do not understand the work that veterinarians do on farms. 
 ''The folks that are involved in the food supply know what we have to do to keep the animals and the food safe,'' Dr. Reimers said. ''And they are, by and large, opposed'' to Proposition 2. 
 Supporters, meanwhile, question why Proposition 2 opponents have drawn so much financial support from out-of-state egg producers, who presumably would benefit if California egg farmers failed. ''You'd think those egg companies would be chomping at the bit'' to see the measure pass, Mr. Pacelle said. 
 Those companies, he said, fear a ''ripple effect'' of similar legislation in other states or a demand from big retailers like Wal-Mart if consumers seek more humane products. 
 Mitch Head, a spokesman for United Egg Producers, a farmers' collective that represents 95 percent of the nation's commercial egg producers, said some out-of-state support was a reflection of the fact that an outbreak of disease in eggs anywhere leads to bad press for the industry as a whole. 
 Mr. Head also noted that California was traditionally a trend-setter. ''I think they believe that if a few states start doing these things,'' he said, ''it will come to their states.'' 
 As often happens with California ballot measures, the fight over Proposition 2 has drawn the attention of celebrities, including Oprah Winfrey, who recently devoted an episode of her television show to the issue, complete with mock-ups of animals in cages.
 For Ms. Buckner, such endorsements have only codified her sense that the ballot measure is being pushed by ''wealthy, narrow-minded elitists'' who do not understand its real-world consequences.
 ''This is an organization raising money from upper-middle-class white women writing $100 checks,'' she said. 
 The battle over Proposition 2 comes on the heels of two ballot victories for the Humane Society and animal rights activists: a 2002 ban on ''gestation crates'' for sows in Florida and a 2006 measure to bar crates for sows and veal cattle in Arizona. 
 Proposition 2 supporters were also heartened by the decision in late September of a federal district court judge in Northern California who found that the United States Department of Agriculture had tried to interfere with the ballot measure campaign by allocating $3 million for a ''consumer education campaign'' whose language closely mirrored that of the effort by Proposition 2's opponents. 
 Economic worries could also affect the campaign. While polls have shown Proposition 2 leading, the president of the California Veterinary Medical Association, Dr. William Grant, said he was surprised at how many people had expressed concern about ''the fiscal impact on the state, rather than how we care about the animals.''
 ''Had this been up last year, I think this would have overwhelmingly passed without any discussion,'' said Dr. Grant, a veterinary surgeon from Garden Grove, Calif. ''But in some ways, the fear of the unknown is the greatest fear, and that may be affecting how they're looking at this. In fact, I know it is.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jill Benson, vice president of JS West and Companies, surveyed an egg-processing plant in Atwater, Calif. A ballot measure would prohibit small, restrictive cages.
 Opponents of a measure say henhouses would be hit by higher costs. Edith Juarez boxed eggs at Dwight Bell Farm in Atwater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLOTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (78%); TABLE EGGS (78%); POULTRY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (73%); FACTORY FARMS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



981 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2267 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. MISSILES SAID TO HAVE KILLED 
 8 Militants in Pakistan Airstrike
 The death toll from missiles fired by remotely piloted American aircraft into a Pakistani village near the Afghan border increased to at least eight people, residents and a militant fighter said. But the missiles did not strike a compound in the village belonging to a Taliban operator with strong links to Al Qaeda, who was presumed to be the target of the attack. Page A6 
 PARAGUAY ISSUES WARNING TO BRAZIL
 Recent tensions between Brazil and Paraguay caused by Paraguayan farmers invading Brazilian-controlled farms along the countries' border were heating up as Brazilian troops began exercises in the region. President Fernando Lugo of Paraguay, issued a harsh warning at a news conference, telling Brazil that if his country's territory was threatened, Paraguay would react swiftly. Page A9 
 A HOLY PLACE IN HOSTILE TERRITORY
 Much like ancient pilgrims escorted by knights, groups of devout Jews are loaded onto buses and escorted by Israeli soldiers into Nablus, a city in the West Bank. There, sometimes by the light of cellphones, they recite psalms at what they believe is the tomb of Joseph, the son of Jacob, the biblical patriarch. Though under Palestinian control, the place is holy to Jews, and many still make the trips to worship. Page A5 
 PALESTINIAN KILLS ISRAELI, 86
 A Palestinian man, after being stopped by the police in Jerusalem for a review of his papers, stabbed and wounded an officer, and while trying to escape, killed an 86-year-old Israeli man before being caught by the police, according to the authorities and witnesses. Page A8 
 AN AUSTRIAN POLITICIAN'S SECRETS
 Jorg Haider, the far-right Austrian politician cultivated an air that was hyper-macho, and he was described by some as a ''right-wing xenophobe.'' The image is becoming harder to maintain after his death on Oct. 11, amid mounting evidence that he was living a double life, drinking at a gay club, and described by his political successor in a radio interview as ''the man of his life.'' Page A9 
 IRAQI MINISTER'S CONVOY BOMBED
 A Shiite government minister's convoy was struck by a suicide bomber in Baghdad morning traffic, above, killing 11 people and wounding 22, but leaving the official unhurt, the Iraqi government and hospital officials said. The attack was the second in four months against a member of the 40-seat cabinet, and a government spokesman said it was the most recent in a chain of attacks directed at ''the development process in Iraq.'' Page A10 
 National
 CALIFORNIA BALLOT MEASURE OFFERS RIGHTS FOR FARM ANIMALS
 California is in the throes of an animal rights campaign. There's big money at stake, and Oprah, Ellen and Spider-Man have entered the fray. The presidential candidates? Forget them. On Nov. 4, California voters will give a thumbs up or a thumbs down on Proposition 2, an ambitious bill that would grant animals like chickens, pigs and cows the opportunity to spread their hooves and claws on the farm, rather than being confined in small cages. Essentially, the battle is over eggs. PAGE A12 
 A CONSTITUENCY OF PRISONERS
 Danny R. Young, 53, a backhoe operator for Jones County in eastern Iowa, was elected to the Anamosa City Council with a total of two votes -- both write-ins, from his wife and a neighbor. The Census Bureau says Mr. Young's ward has roughly the same population as the city's other three, about 1,400 people, but that number includes 1,300 inmates at Iowa's largest penitentiary, who can't vote. Only 58 people who live in his ward are nonprisoners. That discrepancy has made Anamosa a symbol for a national campaign to change the way the Census Bureau counts inmates. PAGE A12 
 POLLS FIND BUSH VOTERS LIKE OBAMA 
 Senator Barack Obama is showing strength among portions of the political coalition that returned George W. Bush to the White House in 2004, a cross section of support that, if it continues through Election Day, would exceed that of Bill Clinton in 1992, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News polls. In the final phase of the campaign, Mr. Obama led Senator John McCain among voters with incomes greater than $50,000 a year, married women, suburbanites and white Catholics. PAGE A18
 WAGE SETTLEMENT IN MASSACHUSETTS
 The luxury Canyon Ranch Spa in Lenox, Mass., where patrons pay thousands of dollars for services including facials and tai chi classes, has agreed to pay $14.75 million to hundreds of waiters, massage therapists, yoga instructors, estheticians and other employees who said the spa denied them tips they were owed. The settlement is thought to be one of the largest wage cases in Massachusetts history. PAGE A13 
 PAPER BALLOT SUIT IN PENNSYLVANIA
 Concerned that voting machine breakdowns could cause long lines on Election Day, particularly in minority neighborhoods, several groups filed a lawsuit to force Pennsylvania election officials to provide paper ballots when half the machines in a precinct have failed. The top election official in Pennsylvania has directed poll workers to provide paper ballots to a precinct only when all of its touch-screen voting machines are broken. PAGE A12 
 McCain Searches for Joes in Florida A19 
 Business
 CHINA'S REAL ESTATE BUBBLE 
 Is Beginning to Burst
 In China, the real-estate bubble is bursting and several cities are feeling the pop as speculative investors are seeing many of the apartments they purchased sitting vacant. This could translate into a string of defaulting loans by spring or summer. The Chinese government announced a series of measures to support plummeting real-estate, but experts say the measures are too narrow and won't reverse the dipping market. Page B1 
 MARKET REMAINS VOLATILE
 The Dow Jones industrial average see-sawed dramatically over the course of the day. Peaking in mid morning trading, it collapsed in the early afternoon, and returned to positive territory in the final hour before the close. The 500-point swing underscored the market's continued volatility amid concerns that the global economy is heading into a deep recession. Page B5
 GROWTH IN NUCLEAR POWER
 It's been three decades since anybody started a nuclear power plant in the United States. Now, despite seemingly daunting regulations, 21 companies say they will seek permission to build 34 power plants, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said. Factories are also springing up in Indiana and Louisiana to build nuclear parts, and in January, electric customers in Florida will be billed a few more dollars a month to finance four new reactors. Page B3 
 AMBIGUOUS VERDICT FOR INSURER
 A jury in Boston found that Unum, the nation's largest disability insurer, had committed fraud in some cases by requiring customers to apply for Social Security benefits even though it knew they were not eligible. But the verdict was ambiguous enough to allow both sides to declare victory. Of six cases total, only two were found to be fraudulent. In two others no evidence of fraud was found and the final two were undecided. Page B2 
 SENTENCED TO 54 MONTHS FOR FRAUD
 The run of luxury, fame and dating a Hollywood actress came to an end for an Italian-born businessman, Raffaello Follieri, above, as a judge sentenced him to 54 months in prison as part of a plea deal. Mr. Follieri pleaded guilty to 14 counts of wire fraud, money laundering and conspiracy. The judgment also orders him to return up to $2.4 million, jewelry and watches. The authorities were also instructed to contact potential victims of Mr. Follieri's schemes. Page B3 
 AIRLINES REPORT QUARTERLY LOSSES
 The US Airways Group and three smaller airlines all posted net losses. The report was mildly encouraging for all but one of them, and industry leaders said that the airlines had weathered the spike in fuel costs quite well and overall the outlook is improving. Page B9 
 weekend
 AN 'OSCAR' BUZZ FILM
 For the Wrong Reasons
 Clint Eastwood has enabled more first-rate, laurel-worthy acting than just about any other American filmmaker. In contrast, Angelina Jolie in his recent film ''The Changeling,'' sustains a pitch of intensity that turns her exhausting lead performance at once into a vivid icon of suffering and something of a blur. Oscar-worthy might turn out to be an accurate description of this baggy, grandiose movie, but it would not be a compliment, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C1
 SHADOWS OF THE SURREAL YADDO
 Over a century ago, a couple converted their 400-acre estate, Yaddo, into an artists' retreat that has always had an unreal, Gatsbylike quality. The colony is now the subject of ''Yaddo: Making American Culture,'' a new exhibition at the New York Public Library. The heart of the exhibit is the dozens of letters that, in this age of technology, seem primitive and touchingly quaint and display a degree of penmanship that now seems virtuosic, Charles McGrath writes. PAGE C27
 POWER HAS ITS UPS AND DOWNS
 In Fable II, the delightful and provocative new role-playing game from Microsoft for the Xbox 360, how you play is entirely up to you. It engages in its second-by-second interaction, and provides the broad capacity for players to explore the depths and limits of their own morality. Many games place the player in a position of virtual power, but Peter Molyneux, the game's designer, has focused on the consequences of how power is achieved and exercised, Seth Schiesel writes. PAGE C1
 Escapes
 FOR NASCAR DRIVERS IT'S ESCAPE
 To New York, Not From It
 For many of those who drive for Nascar, such as Brian Vickers, above, Lake Norman is an ideal close-by getaway. It's close to Charlotte, N.C., which is Nascar's hub and where Mr. Vickers lives, but far enough that the smell of scorched tires and the sound of rumbling engines do not carry. But some drivers have found themselves an unlikely home away from home and one in which the lack of Nascar presence allows them to blend in -- New York City. Page D1 
 IT'S FIRST DOWN BUT THIRD DECADE
 For many, the drama and lights of high school football are viewed through the hallowed lens of memory. A recent trip back to a field of memory reveals some changes: there's the new ticket booth and the seats have been replaced, there is a big red scoreboard and certain buildings sported a fresh coat of paint. But overall it's still the football stadium of memory and part of the past is right there, preserved on that field, under those lights. Page D7 
 New York
 WITH THE ECONOMY REELING,
 Many Seek a Road to Anywhere
 The economic strife has left many New Yorkers in a bind. For some young professionals in the financial industry, everything is on the table: severance packages, temporary jobs, cheaper apartments and even parental generosity. Some are even giving thought to something that they would not have considered a short time ago: leaving New York altogether. Page A21
 Sports
 A TROUBLED AND TEMPTED PLAYER
 No Longer, Aybar Makes Good
 When the Tampa Bay Rays took on Willy Aybar, a player with the admitted baggage of alcohol treatment, they knew what they were getting into. So far, so good. By their own description, Aybar has been the glue that holds the Rays' outfield together in this magical season that sees the team playing in for their first World Series. And all those celebratory champagne showers haven't proven any temptation at all to him. Not a bit. Page B11 
 JETS FORCED TO TALK CONCUSSIONS
 Brett Favre may have to forgo one his favorite targets this Sunday. Laveranues Coles sustained a concussion, Coach Eric Mangini said, last weekend while battling the Oakland Raiders. It was Coles's third documented head injury since late 2006. Mangini also confirmed that safety Eric Smith suffered his second concussion of the season, but did not say whether either would play on Sunday against the Kansas City Chiefs. Page B12 
 Obits
 JOHN CAMPBELL, 67
 Born in Australia, Mr. Campbell was a former timber executive and was the mayor of Fortuna, in Northern California. In the timber industry, he straddled the line between corporate business and the environmentalists, earning both admiration and distrust on both sides in conserving and logging the company's nearly 200,000 acres of timber, including a stand of old-growth redwoods. Page A29 
 VITTORIO FOA, 98
 An anti-Fascist intellectual, labor union leader and senator, Mr. Foae traced the trajectory of the Italian left in the 20th century. Walter Veltroni, the leader of the center-left opposition, called Mr. Foa ''the model of a militant for democracy.'' PAGE A29 
 Editorial
 BARACK OBAMA FOR PRESIDENT
 The United States is battered and drifting after eight years of President Bush's failed leadership. He is saddling his successor with two wars, a scarred global image and a government systematically stripped of its ability to protect and help its citizens.
 As tough as the times are, the selection of a new president is easy.
 After nearly two years of a grueling and ugly campaign, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has shown a cool head and sound judgment. He has the will and the ability to forge the broad consensus that is essential to finding solutions to this nation's problems. Mr. Obama has proved that he is the right choice to be the 44th president of the United States. PAGE A30
 Op-edHEALTH CARE AND BASEBALL
 A data-driven revolution has turned the sport of baseball upside down over the past few years. Could it do the same for health care? In an Op-Ed article, Billy Beane, Newt Gingrich and John Kerry write that American medical care could learn a lot by watching the World Series. PAGE A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TALIBAN (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ANIMALS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); MEN (71%); BALLOTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); WITNESSES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); HOSPITALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); BRAZIL (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); PARAGUAY (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); AUSTRIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



982 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: An Old Buzzword Is Back: Bargains

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AS the year began, consumers started to see a trickle of advertisements that played up brand value rather than attributes like status or prestige. As the economy worsened in the spring and summer, the trickle became a torrent.
 Now, as the crisis in finance continues, a veritable tidal wave of ads devoted to saving money is washing over the country.
 The list of marketers seeking to draw the attention of budget-conscious shoppers reads like a Who's Who of Madison Avenue. Among them are Bayer, ConAgra, Home Depot, Kraft Foods, McDonald's, Nestle, Procter & Gamble, Toyota Motor, Wal-Mart and Yum Brands. 
 ''Given the economic climate, we're working on the best way to appeal to consumers,'' said Jay Kolpon, vice president for marketing at the Bayer HealthCare division of Bayer in Morristown, N.J.
 Recently, Bayer HealthCare began running a commercial by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, that presents its Aleve line of analgesics as an economical way to get relief from arthritis pain. The theme of the spot: ''That's value. That's Aleve.''
 The commercial is ''something that we added to the mix,'' Mr. Kolpon said, once it became clear that ''tough times'' had arrived.
 The value spot is running along with a campaign called ''Buy one, give one,'' which encourages customers to give a package of Advil to a family member or friend with each package they purchase.
 The decision to concentrate on frugality echoes the shifts in the tone and emphasis of ads during recessions in 1973-74 and 1990-1, after the stock market crash in 1987, and after the dot-com bubble burst in 2000-1.
 Marketing textbooks suggest, however, that a focus in the short term on pinching pennies could in the long run have a deleterious effect on the images of brands or products by cheapening them.
 ''You can't blame people for being edgy,'' said James R. Gregory, chief executive at CoreBrand, a consulting company in New York, because ''good brands, good companies, like Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, are gone overnight, and that's unprecedented.''
 At the same time, marketers must ''make sure they're not destroying brand equity, not destroying everything that made their brands great,'' Mr. Gregory said, by ''overly discounting, giving everything away.''
 ''You can communicate your concerns'' about the economy, he added, ''but let people know what your long-term value proposition is by reinforcing brand equity: 'We've always given great value.' ''
 The KFC restaurant chain, owned by Yum Brands, is taking that tack, according to Peter Foulds, KFC's vice president for advertising, in Louisville, Ky. A campaign by Draft FCB in Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, urges fast-food fans to take ''the KFC $10 Challenge'': try to cook at home the equivalent of a KFC Family Value Meal, which costs $9.99, for less than $10.
 Research conducted by KFC since the campaign began shows the promotion had resounded well with consumers, Mr. Foulds said, ''and put a positive spin on our brand attributes.''
 ''Nine ninety-nine for that meal is an extremely good value,'' Mr. Foulds said of the promotion, which lasts for another week.
 Plans for the campaign started this summer, Mr. Foulds said, when KFC began seeing signs that ''the economy was tough.'' The chain is considering repeating the promotion, he added.
 Mr. Kolpon said the Aleve value campaign was also intended to amplify the usual appeals the brand makes rather than undercut them.
 ''We're talking to consumers in today's environment about great value in the context of our strategic message,'' Mr. Kolpon said, which is ''excellent efficacy'' -- that is, Aleve is a better buy because ''it's so strong you use only two pills in 12 hours,'' he added, compared with brands like Advil and Tylenol, which call for dosages of two tablets every four to six hours.
 Another value campaign that started recently is for the Bounty brand of paper towels, sold by Procter & Gamble. A commercial by Publicis USA in New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, shows a man talking into the cardboard tube from a roll of towels.
 ''Attention, shoppers,'' the man says. ''If you want value in paper towels, I've got news. Bounty absorbs twice as much as this bargain brand.''
 What follows is a demonstration in which Bounty outperforms a sheet of an unnamed cheaper towel. ''So if you're buying a bargain brand,'' the man declares, ''you might run out sooner than you bargained for.''
 A spokesman for Procter in Cincinnati, Dewayne Guy, said the commercial was in addition to the regular advertising for Bounty and was scheduled to appear through the end of the year.
 The idea is to convey that ''a superior product and superior performance is a better value to consumers,'' Mr. Guy said, ''because you can do more with less.''
 That theme is echoed in another new value campaign from Procter, for Duracell batteries. Print ads by an agency in Norwalk, Conn., Acme Idea Company, compare Duracell alkaline batteries with the Energizer lithium batteries sold by the Energizer Battery Company.
 The ads, which are appearing in magazines like People and Real Simple, carry the headline ''These are hardly the times to pay for more power than you need'' and conclude with this advice: ''Don't waste power. Don't waste money.''
 A spokesman for Duracell in Bethel, Conn., Kurt Iverson, said he was unsure how long the campaign, which began in the last month, would continue, but said, ''I think you will see it go on for a while.''
 Well, perhaps until the Dow Jones industrial average stops gyrating 500 or so points a day.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column on Friday, about brands that are stressing value and savings in their marketing, misidentified, at one point, an analgesic brand that is promoting a ''Buy one, give one'' offer. It is Aleve, not Advil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BRANDING (90%); BRAND EQUITY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); FOOD MFG (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ANALGESICS (67%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (67%); RESTAURANTS (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); BAYER HEALTHCARE AG (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); NESTLE SA (57%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (83%); YUM (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (57%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



983 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Associated Press Makes a New Offer

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Associated Press announced on Thursday that it will offer new price discounts to newspapers and remove restrictions on the articles they receive, in response to newspapers' frustration and the news that some of them might leave the cooperative. 
 With their own finances growing steadily worse, many newspapers have complained about the prices charged by the A.P., a non-profit corporation owned by the more than 1,400 American newspapers that are its members.
 After holding prices flat for two years, the A.P. proposed a price structure that it said would save members an average of 10 percent next year. That system offered members a basic package of written material or, for a higher price, access to all A.P. articles.
 On Thursday, the A.P. board of directors, meeting in New York, decided to give the broader package to all members at the lower price. A small number of papers would have had a price increase under the new system, and the board voted to hold their rates flat, instead.
 The company said the changes would raise the aggregate savings to newspapers from $21 million a year under the previous plan, to $30 million.
 The board will also consider whether to change a policy that some newspapers have protested, which requires them to give two years' notice of their intent to drop the service.
 ''We fully understand the pain and the challenges of our members, and we have worked to address these concerns,'' Tom Curley, president and chief executive officer of the A.P., said in a statement.
 Last week, the Tribune Company, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Baltimore Sun and several other large papers, and the Columbus Dispatch gave notice to the A.P. that they would drop the service. Until then, only a handful of papers had taken that step this year, and most of those were small.
 It is not clear whether the changes announced on Thursday will placate the newspapers that have rebelled against the wire service.
 Some object to changes in the A.P.'s news coverage. Others have protested a requirement that, to receive the full discounts planned for next year, they must participate in a program that they contend could set the A.P. up as an economic competitor, an argument the company says is misguided.
 And still others say that the price reductions proposed by the A.P. are not nearly steep enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



984 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Harsh Math for Wall Street's Young: Stay or Go?

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
This is how Aidan Menzul's dream fell apart. He was laid off in September, barely three months into a $65,000-a-year job at a private equity firm. He was supposed to move this month from Brooklyn Heights to the East Village, but instead has rented a room near Sheepshead Bay. Now, facing credit-card debt and student loans, he is frequenting McDonald's and contemplating a return to South Florida, where he grew up the son of a supermarket manager and a shipping dispatcher.
''I've thought about the possibility of putting my stuff in storage, and moving back to my parents' and studying two months for the GMATs,'' said Mr. Menzul, who is hanging on with a $10-an-hour part-time job with a political action committee and the $4,000 he managed to save over the summer. ''But I really don't want to leave New York.'' 
Mr. Menzul, 22, is among the untold numbers of young finance types caught in limbo by the economic crisis, yearning to stay in the nation's financial heart yet fearful that no market rebound is in sight. It is impossible to gauge how many such strivers are leaving New York or considering it. But interviews over the past two weeks with affected workers and recruiters revealed an emerging portrait of newly minted college graduates suddenly jobless in a frightfully expensive city, and forced to contemplate a change in career -- or address.
Severance packages, for those lucky enough to get them, have allowed some to cover steep rents, at least in the short run. Others are collecting unemployment checks, living off shrinking savings or relying on family largess. Still others are subletting their apartments and going backpacking.
Adjina Dekidjiev, an operations manager at Manhattan Apartments Inc., said she had been seeing more people trying to break leases, some leaving, some just looking for cheaper places to live.
''A lot of people are doing their math, asking, 'How can I stay in the city, for as long as possible, and try to find a job?' '' said Win Hornig, who started the blog bankergonebroke.com after being laid off from JPMorgan in September. ''People are definitely going to leave the city if the market doesn't come back. It's just too expensive.''
Compared with their laid-off bosses, many of whom have private-school tuitions and suburban mortgages to pay, many of the younger ex-finance workers have flexibility on their side and, like others in bad job markets before, are considering graduate school.
''The more junior people are more willing to get out, and a lot more nimble,'' said Gustavo Dolfino, president of the WhiteRock Group, a global recruiting firm.
One former investment banker, who commented on the condition that he not be named because of the confidentiality clause in his severance agreement, said in an e-mail message: ''There's a large divide among the single guys (much more open to relocating/school) vs. the married/committed relationship guys.''
About 12 percent more people registered to take the Graduate Management Admission Test through Sept. 30 this year compared with last, and 3.5 percent more people have signed up for the Law School Admission Test being given in October than in 2007. Attendance at informational sessions for prospective applicants to the Stern School of Business at New York University is up 20 percent to 30 percent compared with last year, according to Isser Gallogly, executive director of M.B.A. admissions.
Mr. Hornig, who is among those considering business school, fears the increased competition. ''There's going to be such a flood of banker applications this year, it's going to be ridiculous,'' he said.
Many in New York have delighted, at least a little, in a sense of schadenfreude over investment-banker woes, having viewed them as a greedy breed that helped homogenize and gentrify the city. But the market crisis has already had widening ripple effects, and many young people working in jobs related to the finance sector were never making a mother lode.
Jared Trillhaase, 24, was laid off in June from his $36,000-a-year job as a legal assistant in a firm that specialized in real estate finance. He has been living on $405 in weekly unemployment benefits as he hunts for a job outside finance, preferably in government or in the nonprofit field. To save money, he has been walking instead of taking the subway. He has given up his gym membership and quit smoking.
Now he is thinking of subletting the $1,000-a-month room he rents in Hell's Kitchen and moving in with his parents in Connecticut or his brother and sister-in-law in Queens.
Initially, Mr. Trillhaase set a Nov. 1 deadline for getting a job or leaving Manhattan. ''But that's coming up too soon,'' he said. ''I'm going to hold out for another month.''
Christopher Spooner was prepared to leave New York even before he arrived.
Mr. Spooner, who is 23, graduated with an economics degree from Duke University in May. For three golden months, early July until early October, he worked at a hedge fund in South Florida, a job he lost in the financial collapse.
So, embarking on a path that countless young people have ventured down before, Mr. Spooner packed up his Volkswagen Jetta and headed north, hoping against hope to find work in New York even as thousands like him were being laid off. He has been here a few weeks, crashing on a friend's futon in Queens or his parents' place in Lewisburg, Pa., but keeping his earthly belongings -- clothes, college textbooks, a printer -- piled in his car.
''New York is the financial center of the world and I think it will recover,'' he said. ''I love the area, the community, everything. But if something came up in D.C., I'd jump in my car and go.''
Staring in the faces of even the most optimistic financial-sector strivers is the fact that the city's job market is awash with people just like them: young, well educated and hungry for work, all vying for a limited number of jobs.
''In this sort of job market, you need to keep an open mind, and start thinking of going wherever the opportunity takes you,'' said Jonathan Miller, 24, who lost his job as an investment banking analyst in September and is looking for work in Boston, Washington, San Francisco, Seattle, London and Israel.
''You can either say to yourself, 'No thanks, I know zero people there, I hate the rainy weather in Seattle, I hate the Red Sox in Boston, I don't want to go,' '' Mr. Miller said, ''or you can say to yourself, 'These are good opportunities to advance my career.' ''
The trouble, of course, is that although few financial job markets are as saturated as New York's, the finance sector is shedding jobs the world over.
''People were thinking of going into international at first, a year ago, when things started shaking up in the U.S.,'' said Mr. Hornig, of bankergonebroke.com. But, he said, ''the rest of the world is blowing up too.''
Ariel Litvin, who is 34, survived three rounds of layoffs at Bear Stearns, only to lose his 80-hour-a-week job as a real estate underwriter in August. So, for roughly five weeks, he took advantage of the down time, visiting friends in various cities around the country.
''For the two years prior I had basically been living in my cube,'' Mr. Litvin said.
But job hunting in New York proved fruitless -- and he lost half of his severance money after investing it in Lehman Brothers. So Mr. Litvin and his girlfriend decided to move to Chicago, where she found a position with a real estate firm. He rented out his co-op near Union Square for $3,700 a month and is moving next week. While the job market in Chicago is dreadful, Mr. Litvin said, his housing expenses, at least, will be way down -- $1,800 a month for a two-bedroom in trendy Wicker Park. But he is going grudgingly.
''Right now I'm really enjoying being in New York, even though I'm unemployed,'' he said. ''I'm not ready to leave.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aidan Menzul, 22, lost his job at a private equity firm in September after barely three months. In debt, he is thinking about moving back to South Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Christopher Spooner, 23, is looking for work in finance in New York. ''But if something came up in D.C.,'' he said, ''I'd jump in my car and go.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (77%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



985 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Trouble Without Borders

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- As the global financial crisis has unfolded, many South Koreans feel they are reliving a nightmare.
South Korean stock markets and currency have dropped more than 30 percent since last summer as foreign investors have fled in droves.
Rating agencies have raised concerns about the health of the nation's banks. The problems are a chilling echo of a decade ago, when the Korean currency and economy collapsed during the Asian financial crisis. 
They are also a microcosm of the challenges many emerging markets are facing in the current turmoil, underscoring the vulnerability of even larger developing economies like South Korea to sudden tremors in global finance.
Once again, the Asian economic powerhouse appears threatened by an international financial contagion that began elsewhere. Last time, it started with the Thai baht. This time, the crisis began on Wall Street and has already claimed less wealthy countries like Iceland and Ukraine.
Many South Koreans complain that their economy is vulnerable to Western market panic and destabilization because it is more transparent and open to foreign capital than those of neighboring Japan and China, who have so far survived the credit crisis unscathed.
''We are collateral damage in a crisis that is not our doing,'' said Park Yung-chul, a professor of international finance at Korea University in Seoul. ''We live in an unfair world.''
They are not the only ones.
Emerging markets around the globe have come under simultaneous pressure from the financial tsunami that started in the United States mortgage market.
South Korea's vulnerability is an indication that the global financial crisis has reached a new level.
Unlike Iceland, South Korea is a major industrial power, whose $960 billion economy was the 13th-largest in the world last year Economists have been hoping that demand from South Korea and Asian neighbors like China and India could replace some of the lost global demand from slowdowns in the United States and Europe. The biggest concern is that the global credit crisis could cripple South Korea's banks, which rely more heavily on overseas borrowing than China's or Japan's.
As global credit markets have dried up, South Korean banks have scrambled to find dollars to repay maturing foreign-currency loans.
Woori Bank, one of South Korea's largest lenders, suddenly found itself unable to borrow dollars after last month's collapse of Lehman, a bank executive said. Dealers in the bank's trading room made frantic calls to big foreign banks seeking fresh loans, only to be told bluntly ''no,'' said Jung Hyun-jin, an executive vice president in the bank's financing market business unit.
Worse, foreign banks refused to roll over many existing loans, forcing Woori to repay them as they came due, also in dollars.
With the bank using as much as $280 million of precious foreign currency a week, Woori has stayed liquid thanks to dollar loans from the government, which has pumped tens of billions into banks, Mr. Jung said.
Recently, the crunch has begun to ease slightly, with some European banks like Deutsche Bank once again lending dollars to Woori, he said.
''International banks, because of their own problems, won't lend to us,'' Mr. Jung said. ''We don't face a solvency problem. We face a liquidity problem.''
Last Sunday, the government responded by pledging more than $100 billion in loan guarantees and an infusion of $30 billion in American dollars to prop up the Korean banking system. The government said the additional liquidity should help Korean banks repay or roll over the banks' $80 billion in foreign currency loans that will come due by June 2009.
''The money will buy us breathing room,'' said Lee Dong-gull, president of the Korea Institute of Finance, a banking industry research center, speaking of Sunday's move. ''But there will not be a fundamental solution until we can find new sources of foreign currency funding.''
The long-term fear is of the effects of a global slowdown on South Korea's exports, and a trade deficit -- the first since the Asian financial crisis. Some economists fear the deficit could also drain South Korea's formidable foreign currency reserves.
Foreign investors have been leaving South Korea since subprime problems first hit last year. In the first six months of this year, net foreign direct investment in South Korea turned negative for the first time since 1980, when such figures started being kept, as foreign investors withdrew a net $886 million, according to the Bank of Korea.
Many blame South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak, for failing to send a strong signal of government support for banks earlier in the crisis. Earlier this month, Mr. Lee called for South Koreans to reduce energy consumption and exchange their dollars for won, prompting some loyal citizens to line up at banks with dollars in hand, but reinforcing the image abroad that Seoul was unable to come up with a more effective response.
One nightmare scenario has been the image of South Korea once again seeking outside help, as it did in 1998 when the International Monetary Fund led a bailout of the country. But with signs now emerging that the month-long global crunch may finally be easing, many economists are confident the country will pull through on its own power. Indeed, economists said the nation's banks are much better able to weather a recession than they were in 1998. They say the real problem is that developing economies do not have the same access to emergency sources of foreign currency funding that the United States and a few developed countries have, and are thus left unfairly to the mercies of global financial markets.
''We thought that sitting on a quarter of a trillion dollars in reserves would be enough to make us okay,'' said Dr. Park of Korea University. ''Boy, were we wrong.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rag-and-bone merchant pulls his cart in Seoul. South Korea's economy has come under pressure in the global financial crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JAE-WON/REUTERS)(B4) DRAWING(B1)
 CHART: Weakening Currencies: Except for Hong Kong, the currencies of emerging market countries have fallen against the U.S. dollar in the last three months. (Source: Bloomberg)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ICELAND (92%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



986 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE WEB; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 285 words

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
SONY SURPRISED investors on Thursday with a sharp downward revision to its annual earnings forecast, saying the rise in the yen and weakness in core markets would hurt its results. DAVID JOLLY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS will offer price discounts to newspapers and remove restrictions on articles in response to newspapers' threats to leave the cooperative. RICHARD PEREZ-PENADYNEGY, which owns coal-burning power plants, will tell investors more about how global warming could affect its business. (AP) 
 TECHNOLOGY
 NEW GOOGLE TOYS It looks as if the top Google executives have a fighter jet. The runway is next to the office. MIGUEL HELFT 
 nytimes.com/bits
 WOES AT SONY Not only are sales of big TVs slowing, the falling euro and dollar mean that what Sony does sell comes home as fewer yen. SAUL HANSELL 
 nytimes.com/bits
 FINANCE
 GREENSPAN'S MEA CULPA Readers comment on Alan Greenspan's concession that he erred in his confidence in self-regulation on Wall Street.
 nytimes.com/economix
 BEAR STEARNS ASSETS The Federal Reserve said it had reduced the estimated value of the Bear Stearns assets that it acquired in June by $2.7 billion, or 9.2 percent. 
 nytimes.com/dealbook
 COURT VICTORY FOR HUNTSMAN The chemical maker Huntsman claimed another legal victory as a Texas appeals court denied efforts by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank to overturn an order temporarily preventing them from filing lawsuits over a merger with Hexion Specialty Chemicals.
 nytimes.com/dealbook
 ENVIRONMENT
 COAL TO INDIA It appears that India -- a giant in coal production itself -- is doing some window-shopping of its own in American mine towns, not just to secure exports, but to invest. TOM ZELLER Jr. 
 nytimes.com/greeninc

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); COAL INDUSTRY (76%); MINING OUTPUT (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); COAL MINING (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); EURO (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); MERGERS (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (65%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); GOOGLE INC (92%); MOMENTIVE SPECIALITY CHEMICALS INC (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS325910 PRINTING INK MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



987 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Jobless Claims Exceeds Forecast

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits rose by a larger than expected 15,000 last week, government data showed on Thursday, reinforcing evidence that the labor market is weak. 
 Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits increased to a seasonally adjusted 478,000 in the week ended Oct. 18, from a revised 463,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said.
 Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast 470,000 new claims versus a previously reported count of 461,000 the week before. The Labor Department said that the effects of Hurricane Ike in Texas added roughly 12,000 claims to the total.
 ''The story is that the underlying trend is moving up pretty strongly and job losses are clearly getting worse,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass.
 The four-week average of new jobless claims, a better gauge of underlying labor trends because it irons out week-to-week volatility, declined to 480,250 from 484,750 the week before. This was the lowest reading since late September, but remained at a high level.
 This measure has mounted steadily as the United States housing slump chills growth and crimps hiring.
 The number of people remaining on the benefits roll after drawing an initial week of aid decreased 6,000 to 3.72 million in the week ended Oct. 11, the most recent week for which data is available.
 Analysts estimated that so-called continued claims would be 3.72 million. It was the 26th consecutive week that claims were above 3 million in a sign that the slowing economy was making it harder for workers to find jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); HURRICANES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



988 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1051 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Unlike contemporary artworks, whose auction prices are subject to wild market gyrations, old masters have historically run a steadier course. ''Prices may go down a little bit; they may go up a little bit, but we ain't going out of business,'' said George Wachter, vice chairman of Sotheby's old master paintings department. 
 Some sellers seem undaunted by the current economic crisis. ''This market hasn't been impacted by hedge-fund collectors,'' said Richard Feigen, the Manhattan dealer, who has decided to sell a J. M. W. Turner painting from his private collection at an auction on Jan. 29 at Sotheby's in New York. 
 ''I'm now 78 1/2 years old,'' he said, ''and I've been advised to do some estate planning.'' 
 He is parting with ''The Temple of Jupiter Panellenius'' (1814-16), which was a centerpiece in the traveling Turner retrospective that closed last month at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Depicting figures dancing at dawn with a Greek temple in the background, the painting usually hangs in Mr. Feigen's Manhattan living room. 
 He bought it at Christie's in London in 1982 for $1.1 million. Sotheby's estimates it will bring $12 million to $16 million. 
 Old master paintings seem cheap compared with contemporary artworks, many of which have fetched huge prices in the last few years. Partly for that reason and partly because of a change in tastes, some collectors who have mainly been interested in the new are starting to buy art of an older vintage. So have several contemporary artists, among them Jeff Koons, John Currin and Damien Hirst. 
 To entice collectors of Impressionist, Modern and contemporary art to consider old masters, Sotheby's will put ''The Temple of Jupiter Panellenius'' on view from Wednesday through Nov. 3 at its York Avenue headquarters, where it will be shown alongside highlights of the important fall auctions. Then Sotheby's experts plan to take the Turner to London, Paris and Los Angeles, so other clients can see it. 
 ''It's possible people will take flight into old masters and feel it is a good refuge,'' Mr. Feigen said. ''If it sells, fine. If not, I'd be delighted to have it back. Because of the retrospective, it's been off my walls for over a year now.'' 
 It is not Mr. Feigen's only Turner. He also has ''Ancient Italy Ovid Banished From Rome'' (1838), which he said he had owned for 35 years.
 ''That one I will never sell,'' he said.
 WASHINGTON APOCALYPSE
 In 1498, when he was just 26, Albrecht Durer produced an edition of 16 woodcuts depicting the Apocalypse that remain among his most famous works. Together they are considered by experts to be a monument in printmaking history. In 1511 Durer produced a second edition, but it is the one from 1498 that is most cherished. 
 This week the National Gallery of Art in Washington said it had bought a complete set of the first edition. ''Only three other sets exist in the United States,'' said Peter Parshall, curator of old master prints at the museum. The others are at the St. Louis Museum of Art, the Houghton Library at Harvard University and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. 
 Mr. Parshall said the National Gallery had bought the woodcuts from a European dealer. He declined to identify the dealer or to say what the museum had paid for the set. But print experts familiar with the purchase said the seller was Laube & Company of Zurich and that the asking price was around $1.4 million. 
 ''This is to printmaking what the Sistine Chapel is to the history of mural painting,'' Mr. Parshall said. 
 SEED MONEY
 As a way of encouraging museums to collect Latin American art, Pinta -- the Modern and contemporary Latin American Art fair -- has set up a $150,000 acquisitions fund that will be distributed among eight museums that either already buy contemporary Latin American art or have expressed an interest in breaking into the field.
 They include the Harvard Art Museum in Cambridge, the Museum of Modern Art and El Museo del Barrio in New York, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, the Blanton Museum of Art in Austin, the Tate in London, the Museum of Latin American Art in Buenos Aires and the Museum of Art in Lima. 
 ''It's seed money, a way to get museums interested,'' said Mauro Herlitzka, the institutional director of the fair, which runs from Nov. 13 to Nov. 16 at the Metropolitan Pavilion and the B. Altman Building, both on West 18th Street in Manhattan. Pinta said its organizers provided money and also raised funds from donors of Latin American art in the United States.
 Donors determined how the money was apportioned. The Tate has been allotted $15,000, for example, while the Houston museum will receive $25,000. Museums are not obliged to buy anything, but if they don't make the purchase, they don't receive the money. Pinta's organizers said they hoped the museums would match the acquisitions money by spending an equal amount of their own. 
 The fair is only in its second year, and Mr. Herlitzka said that the donations and museum-world beneficiaries could grow over time. 
 ART ON THE BOWERY
 When the New Museum opened its $50 million home in December on the Bowery between Stanton and Rivington Streets, on the Lower East Side, many in the art world predicted that it was only a matter of time before contemporary galleries started putting down roots nearby. 
 This week Sperone Westwater firmed up the time of its own move to the area. The gallery said it hoped to open its new location in about 14 months at 257 Bowery, a building it purchased a block north of the New Museum earlier this year. 
 Sperone Westwater has hired the British architect Norman Foster to tear down what was once a restaurant supply store and build a new eight-story gallery structure. 
 ''We wanted more exhibition space,'' said Angela Westwater, who last moved in 2002 from Greene Street in SoHo to a 10,000-square-foot second-floor space at 415 West 13th Street in the meatpacking district. She said she had felt for about a year that her gallery had outgrown that space. 
 She said the new building would almost double the size of the gallery, with four floors of exhibitions space: ''It substantially expands our possibilities.'' 
 Ms. Westwater noted that the new site was only a few blocks from where her gallery got its start in the 1970s on Greene Street. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J .M. W. Turner's ''Temple of Jupiter Panellenius'' (1814-16), which is to be auctioned at Sotheby's in New York on Jan. 29.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (52%); ITALY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



989 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'POMPEII AND THE ROMAN VILLA'; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Pompeii Style, B.C.E. (Before Catastrophic Eruption)

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 The eruption of Vesuvius in A.D. 79 was both a natural and a cultural disaster. At the time the surrounding region of Campania was a resort destination for the Roman aristocracy. Enticed by water views, pleasant temperatures, sea breezes and thermal baths, emperors from Caesar to Caligula vacationed in sprawling villas along the Bay of Naples. Rich Romans followed, hoping to rub shoulders with politicians during their season of leisure. Artists flocked to the nearby cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum, where they thrived on commissions for villa decor.
 All of this ended, famously, with a blast of hot lava, but Roman ''villa society'' has often served as a benchmark for wealthy citizens wishing to assert their status and taste. The Getty Villa in Malibu, Calif., for instance, is a meticulous recreation of the Villa dei Papiri at Herculaneum. 
 Many other examples come to mind when wandering through ''Pompeii and the Roman Villa: Art and Culture Around the Bay of Naples,'' at the National Gallery here. The villas of the richest and most powerful Romans had private theaters, sports arenas and spa facilities -- antecedents of the hedge-fund palaces with private skating rinks and museums that define present-day Greenwich, Conn. Pompeii was destroyed by seismic activity rather than credit-default swaps, but there are some eerie parallels between its frozen-in-time culture of excess and our own staggering economy.
 Organized by Carol C. Mattusch, a professor of art history at George Mason University, the exhibition includes recent discoveries on view in the United States for the first time, as well as finds from excavations dating to the mid-18th century. The loans come from the Museo Archeologico Nazionale in Naples, Italy; from site museums at Pompeii, Boscoreale, Torre Annunziata and Baia; and from other museums and private collections in the United States and Europe.
 The galleries unfold according to the floor plan of a typical villa, starting with a ''cave canem'' (''beware of the dog'') sign at the entrance and continuing through an atrium, gardens and dining room. The installation -- which includes decorative columns, wall borders, living plants and reproductions of mosaics -- works hard to maintain the illusion of classical architecture in the National Gallery's stark and unprepossessing East Building.
 One theme of the exhibition is the tension between modesty and extravagance, Apollonian restraint and Dionysian indulgence. (As Kenneth Lapatin notes in a catalog essay, the Latin term luxuria derives from the verb luxor, to sprain or dislocate.) Cato the Elder and other moralists cautioned against the excessive display of wealth, but their words had more traction in the city of Rome than in the villas along the Bay of Naples.
 A highlight of the exhibition is a triclinium, or open dining room, from the site of Moregine, on the outskirts of Pompeii. Its frescoes, found in 1959 and excavated in 1999-2000, depict Apollo, the god of learning, and his muses -- figures intended to stimulate properly intellectual dinner conversation.
 As in a typical villa, the dining area overlooks a set of ''gardens'' decorated with Dionysian sculpture: wild animals, maenads, satyrs, even a hermaphrodite. Nearby, a bronze shows Dionysus's pudgy and intoxicated companion, Silenos, astride a wineskin. Ancient Romans could recline on the triclinium's long benches, discussing music, literature and other refined topics, while contemplating a vista of ecstatic abandon.
 Further proof of indulgence can be found in jewelry and smaller decorative objects. An intricate emerald necklace and a set of pearl earrings, excavated in the late 1980s at the Villa at Oplontis, are among the treasures on view. They were discovered, along with several skeletons, in a room at the front of the villa -- an indication that people tried to wear or carry their most valuable possessions as they fled the eruption.
 Larger sculptures and furnishings reflect the passion of educated, well-off Romans for all things Greek. As the Roman poet Horace summarized: ''Captured Greece took captive her savage conqueror and brought civilization to rustic Latium.'' A bust of Homer, statues and mosaics of Alexander the Great and a gladiator helmet embossed with scenes from the Iliad are a few of the relevant archaeological finds.
 Whether purchasing antiquities or commissioning reproductions from local artists, elite Romans gave little regard to the original context of Greek sculpture. Archaic and classical works were displayed side by side, and deities that might have served a ritual function in ancient Greece were reincarnated as home decor. In one of many examples in the exhibition, a bronze statue in the style of a kouros doubles as a trayholder.
 The illusion of antiquity could be enough to fool a collector or impress a houseguest. Another bronze kouros sculpture, a bust, has an irregular lower edge that gives it the appearance of a fragment of a full-length statue.
 Abruptly concluding the villa tour, the exhibition, which will travel after its stay at the National Gallery to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, takes a morbid but fascinating turn, jumping ahead to the 18th-century rediscovery of Pompeii and the site's subsequent hold on the popular imagination. A 10-minute historical video on the eruption of Vesuvius, which includes footage from ''Spartacus'' and other Hollywood films about ancient Rome, eases the transition.
 In the next few galleries, paintings and sculptures echoing Edward Bulwer-Lytton's 1834 novel, ''The Last Days of Pompeii,'' show Romans panicking and collapsing, as Vesuvius spews ash and flame. During the 18th and 19th centuries, the still active volcano was a popular stop on the Grand Tour and a fixture in paintings by British and French artists like Joseph Wright and Pierre-Henri de Valenciennes.
 In an 1813 painting by Valenciennes featured in the exhibition, Pliny the Elder and his nephew Pliny the Younger witness the eruption from the beach at Stabiae. (The elder Pliny died during the day's events; the younger survived to give a remarkable account of the event in a letter to the historian Tacitus.) 
 Also on display are ephemera from the tourist economy that developed around Pompeii; these include photographs of casts made by pouring plaster into the cavities left by decayed bodies. It is easy to see how these nauseating artifacts might have appealed to death-obsessed Victorians.
 On a more materialist level, the lure of Pompeii is best depicted in ''The Sculpture Gallery'' (1874), a painting by the 19th-century British artist Lawrence Alma-Tadema (a successful painter of Classical ruins and an associate of the Pre-Raphaelites.) In this ostentatious scene the artist portrays himself and his family as ancient Romans examining works of art for possible purchase.
 The painting, and the exhibition, each make the point: every culture finds affirmation of its taste and sophistication in a previous golden age.
 ''Pompeii and the Roman Villa: Art and Culture Around the Bay of Naples'' continues through March 22 at the National Gallery of Art, Washington; (202) 842-6176, nga.gov. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A first-century fresco of a triclinium, or open dining room, at Moregine featured in ''Pompeii and the Roman Villa.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); HISTORY (72%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); ART HISTORY (71%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



990 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: WEST IS IN TALKS ON CREDIT TO AID POORER NATIONS

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the financial crisis engulfing developing countries from Latin America to Central Europe, raising the specter of market panic and even social unrest, Western officials are weighing coordinated action to try to stabilize these economies.
The International Monetary Fund, which is in negotiations with several countries to provide emergency loans, is also working to arrange a huge credit line that would allow other countries desperate for foreign capital to borrow dollars, according to several officials.
The list of countries under threat is growing by the day, and now includes such emerging-market stalwarts as Brazil, South Africa and Turkey. They have become collateral damage in a crisis that began in the American subprime housing market.
The fast-growing economies of the developing world depend on money from Western banks to build factories, buy machinery and export goods to the United States and Europe. When those banks stop lending and the money dries up, as it has in recent weeks, investor confidence vanishes and the countries suddenly find themselves in crisis. 
Details of the arrangement are still being worked out, but it could be supported by Japan and several oil-producing countries, a fund official said. The fund has not yet approached the Federal Reserve, according to officials, although the Treasury Department has expressed interest.
Two weeks ago, the Fed set up unlimited swap agreements with the European Central Bank, the Bank of England and other central banks to ease the severe credit turmoil in Western Europe.
This time, the focus would be on emerging markets, with good economic records, which are having trouble borrowing dollars.
''There needs to be some action to help these countries,'' said Neil Dougall, chief economist for emerging markets at Dresdner Kleinwort in London. ''There has been a severe drying up of liquidity there, and it is early days. The tsunami has only just reached their shores.''
The monetary fund has about $250 billion available for all types of loans. That could be supplemented by funds from central banks, officials said, though they dismissed a rumor that circled the globe on Thursday that the fund was arranging a $1 trillion credit line.
Whatever the amount ultimately pledged, it would represent the most concerted international response yet to what economists warn could be a volatile, dangerous new phase in the crisis.
''We view it seriously,'' said Clay Lowery, assistant Treasury secretary for international affairs. ''There are a lot of emerging markets that have come under increased pressure recently.''
Unlike in the United States and Western Europe, banks in these countries bought few of the mortgage-related securities that undermined the financial system. But as banks stopped lending -- either to each other or anyone else -- that credit squeeze has hit emerging markets hard.
Stock markets and currencies have plunged, foreign capital has fled, trade flows have slowed, and in an echo of past financial crises, investors have begun to worry about governments' defaulting. Many have heavy debts in foreign currencies, but the cost of repaying that debt has increased as their home currencies' values have declined. To compensate, they are seeking dollars to repay the loans.
On the list of endangered countries, economists put: Hungary, Russia, Ukraine, Pakistan, Turkey, South Africa, Argentina, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Bulgaria.
The economic woes of these countries could reverberate back to the United States, experts say, because many of them are trading partners, at a time when exports are one of the few bright spots in the American economy.
''Our whole economic prospects are going to turn on whether the emerging markets keep growing,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, the director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''It could be the difference between a moderate downturn and a deep downturn.''
The crisis has been indiscriminate in its victims. It has worsened the problems in countries like Iceland, Ukraine and Argentina, which had festering economic or political troubles. Argentina, in particular, has drawn criticism from economists for its decision this week to nationalize the country's private pension funds, worth $30 billion.
But the turmoil also hit South Africa and Turkey, which economists had praised for their sound policies.
Among the earliest victims have been countries, like Hungary, where companies and even individuals borrowed heavily in foreign currencies. As credit dried up and their local currencies plummeted, they have been unable to roll over those loans. In even healthy countries, near panic has ensued -- leaving people bewildered by the sudden reversal in their fortunes.
''We were not an obvious target,'' said Peter Akos Bod, a former governor of the Hungarian central bank. ''I could not see major problems in Hungary's economic outlook. But there is sort of a panic.''
Economists say the inability to borrow foreign currency is dangerous because it can quickly turn healthy economies into sick ones, as companies and even potentially governments default on loans.
''Right now, it's a liquidity problem, but if it goes on long enough, it can become a solvency problem,'' said Yusuke Horiguchi, the chief economist of the Institute for International Finance.
Mr. Horiguchi said that developed economies bear responsibility for easing this problem, because it stems from the crisis in their banking system.
Indeed, the financial rescue packages announced by the United States and European countries have aggravated the problem. Safeguards like attempts to stabilize their banks and government guarantees behind some bank lending have made banks in developing countries look less secure.
In a gesture to the precarious situation, President Bush made an unscheduled appearance this month at a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of 20 countries, organized by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. Mr. Bush also agreed to convene an emergency meeting of the group on Nov. 15 to develop responses to the crisis.
Beyond reassuring words, there is a limit to what the United States can do to solve the problems of these countries. Mr. Paulson is overseeing the largest economic rescue program since the Great Depression. He cannot devote anywhere near the amount of time that a predecessor, Robert E. Rubin, devoted to the Asian and Mexican crises during the Clinton administration.
''The most important thing the United States can do is stabilize its financial system,'' Mr. Lowery, of the Treasury, said. ''The other thing we can do is to support the actions taken by emerging-market countries.''
On Thursday, the central banks of Brazil and Mexico intervened heavily in the foreign exchange market to support their currencies. Hungary obtained a loan of up to 5 billion euros from the European Central Bank.
And Hungary -- along with Iceland, Pakistan, Belarus and Ukraine -- has overcome deep reluctance and begun negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for emergency loans. Countries are traditionally averse to such loans because they come with strict conditions.
''I'm totally unhappy about having to borrow from the I.M.F.,'' Mr. Akos Bod, the Hungarian central banker, said. ''I thought in my lifetime, we would never have to borrow from the I.M.F.''
As the largest shareholder in the fund, the United States can exert influence on its policies. Administration officials said the highest-ranking American at the fund, John Lipsky, the first deputy managing director, would lead the fund's effort to extend loans to a broader range of countries.
The idea, they said, was proposed at a board meeting on Wednesday by Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the French managing director, who is the subject of an internal investigation into whether he abused his power in conducting a brief affair with a worker at the fund.
Economists praised the idea of giving emerging markets access to dollars. But the key to the effort's success, they said, is whether the fund can line up support from central banks.
''The I.M.F. has only $200 billion of its own resources, which is not enough collateral,'' Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the fund, said. ''It would be spectacular if they could pull this off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stockbrokers at the Karachi Stock Exchange in Pakistan, which is considering an I.M.F. loan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ATHAR HUSSAIN/REUTERS) (pg. A20) CHART: Emerging Market Vulnerability: An analysis by the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort rated a variety of emerging market countries based on their vulnerability in two categories: macroeconomic, meaning the broad economy, and financial, meaning the stability of the currency and banking system.(Source: Dresdner Kleinwort) Chart details: Macroeconomic vulnerability A long-term issue. Measures the danger of slower growth or recession, based on a country's exposure to global trade, including commodity prices, foreign direct investment and other factors.(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (65%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (65%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (65%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); BRAZIL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



991 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: Sun Valley By Knobby Tires, Not Skis

BYLINE: By MATT FURBER

 BODY:
MOUNTAIN biking in Sun Valley, Idaho, is best seen from the saddle. But a glimpse from a four-seater airplane of the valley's mountains, alpine lakes, rivers, canyons, forests and lava flows helped set the stage.
 The pilot, Tor Andersen, who had his mountain bike and fly-fishing rod neatly stowed in the fuselage of the 51-year-old Cessna 182, was joining me for some autumn mountain biking during the harvest moon. 
 After our arrival at Friedman Memorial Airport, and a quick visit to a bike shop for trail information and last-minute gear, we rode east to the Lamb's Gulch Trail in Croy Canyon with Scott Douglas, an owner of Sun Valley Trekking, an outfitter that rents out backcountry huts and yurts. 
 ''Sun Valley is prized for its grooming,'' Mr. Douglas said, referring to the cornerstone ski resort that opened in 1936 under the guidance of W. Averell Harriman, then the chairman of Union Pacific Railroad. Today, the resort has state-of-the-art snowmaking and grooming equipment on Dollar and Bald Mountains. ''The bike trails are just as smooth.'' 
 Daniel Henry, a mine owner based in Hailey, said that the secret to those smooth rides is in the dirt. ''The six-sided fractured shale common in the area packs down like concrete,'' said Mr. Henry, a former Colorado School of Mines student.
 Trail volunteers work regularly through the spring and summer sculpturing the ground on Croy Canyon trails. As Blaine County has grown in recent years, so has demand for mountain bike and motorcycle trails, said John Kurtz, a Bureau of Land Management recreation planner. But some mountain bikers have taken projects into their own hands.
 When he learned that bikers were building trails without authorization, Mr. Kurtz contacted a local trail stewardship group called Big Wood Backcountry Trails. Together, they found volunteers to help restore the illegally constructed trail to its natural character and to build new authorized trails.
 Croy Canyon has become a test case for public lands management because the bureau is working with riders and private property owners to form a new recreation area that will offer trails that allow motorized vehicles along with some areas that will be exclusive to nonmotorized trail users. 
 ''I couldn't ask for a better job,'' said Mr. Kurtz, who works with a recreation planning committee based at the bureau in Washington ''One day, I'm out here building trail. The next day, I am working on national policy.''
 Although riding opportunities are expanding and have a longer season on the drier terrain overseen by the bureau, forest rides to the north offer more shade, creek crossings and surprising views as riders pop in and out of the trees.
 Sun Valley and its mining-era neighbor Ketchum sit at the top of the Wood River Valley, a stretch of alpine forest, mixed with bald, sage and grass slopes. Following the Big Wood River as it flows south from Galena Pass, the resort area is peppered with aspen groves, willow and cottonwood trees. North of the pass, the road leads to Stanley and the Sawtooth Wilderness. 
 Wielding a jackhammer on a recent bureau trail project, Renee Catherine, trail coordinator for the Sawtooth National Forest, said she works closely with the bureau manager because she values cooperation between agencies in a place where trails cross boundaries. 
 During the peak of autumn colors, some trails I rode connected Bureau of Land Management and United States Forest Service land. Customized cattle guards made it possible to keep riding without having to open and close range-land gates, just as hand-built wooden ramps and bridges made it possible to keep riding without having to dismount in the forest and riparian zones. 
 Trail quality was at its height on the roughly 450 miles of singletrack around Sun Valley. Day trips here can also include excursions to the Sawtooth Valley, including loops in the Boulder and White Cloud Mountains, a proposed wilderness area east of the Sawtooth range. One of the most popular ride-from-the-road experiences there is the 17.5-mile Fisher Creek Loop, which passes through the burn zone of the Valley Road Fire, a 2005 wildfire. 
 Like many trail networks in the area, the popular circuit barely scratches the surface of possibilities.
 The Sun Valley area is challenging to reach. It is about a 12-hour drive from Seattle, San Francisco or Denver, and the closest big airport is two and a half hours away in Boise. As a result, even at the height of the season on sanctioned trails, it is rare to see many other riders. Riding the Bald Mountain Trail to the Warm Springs connector, an after-work constitutional on the ski mountain for many locals, I met only one person. 
 Encounters with signs of wildlife are common anywhere in the Sun Valley area. Seeing a mountain lion on the trail is rare, but a moose on Main Street, or a bear in the garbage, is not unknown. Deer, elk and fox are ubiquitous. And whether a rider is in Hailey, Ketchum or Stanley, trailheads are so close to home base that enjoying a pint at the end of a ride is always an option.
 October is a busy month for biking in the Wood River Valley. Crosstoberfest, an off-road race that starts at the plaza at Sun Valley's River Run Lodge at the end of October, is the final entry in an annual series of community-wide biking events. Other events include a new midsummer road race in Hailey and the Galena Grinder, a mountain bike event given by Galena Lodge on the tracks that form the Nordic ski area at the base of the pass to the Sawtooth Valley. 
 ''The soil moisture is perfect right now,'' said Chris Leman, a trail designer. Having spent some of the year helping map trail reroutes in the Sawtooth National Forest, where the 2007 Castle Rock Fire burned about 48,500 acres in the Smoky Mountains and threatened Ketchum and Sun Valley, Mr. Leman also worked with the volunteer trail crews in Croy Canyon.
 ''I just designed a trail that is about 10 or 12 miles long,'' Mr. Leman said. After he had spent the summer mapping future trails, Mr. Leman's new boots were nearly worn out.
 Despite the hard work that goes into maintaining the trails, mountain biking in the Wood River Valley is not entirely about suffering. Once there, the county is comfortably accessible to visitors with plenty of modern convenience and cosmopolitan interaction.
 ''It's Paris on the Wood,'' said Greg Randolph, who was raised in McCall, Idaho, and who writes a monthly column, ''Ask Chopper,'' for Bike Magazine. 
 Near Ketchum's Elephant's Perch outdoor store, where I met Mr. Randolph in the bike shop, Iconoclast Books offers a diversion for bikers resting between rides. There are also a number of art galleries, coffee shops and theaters in the Wood River Valley.
 The Sun Valley Center for the Arts played host to Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Harvard professor and cultural critic, who spoke at the Church of the Big Wood at the end of the week. 
 ''The riding is terrible here,'' Mr. Randolph said, amicably trying to steer me clear of riding choices we discussed. ''I wouldn't recommend any of it. It's a bad experience.''
 What can you believe from a former professional mountain bike racer who has chosen to live with his family smack in the middle of the Wood River Valley? 
 ''It's a whole other world in here,'' said Sean McLaughlin, a bike mechanic, adding a caveat to any trail information gleaned from the cadre of local riders who popped in to the bike shop. As we chatted about Sun Valley trails, Rebecca Rusch, a reigning mountain bike world champion, just home from 24 Hours of Moab Bike Race in Utah, arrived looking for a bike cleaning. She was preparing to leave the next day for a race in Brazil. Then, Muffy Ritz, the three-time-second-place finisher of the Race Across America, came in stating that the thing that kept her in the valley was the Nordic skiing.
 Another mechanic, Roger Mankus, a veteran of the Leadville 100 mountain bike race in Colorado, had more practical advice for an average biker.
 ''The Burger Grill is half price between 4 and 6. Get the double double,'' he said. 
 Before I could react, however, the proprietor of Johnny G's Subshack stopped by with his fourth consecutive flat tire and made a better offer. 
 Beer at Grumpy's, Lefty's or the Wicked Spud in Hailey are all memorable stops, as is a trip to the Cavallino Lounge or Sun Valley Resort. If it's breakfast or lunchtime in the Sawtooth Valley, many riders pop into the Stanley Baking Company. 
 One of the appealing aspects of riding in the Wood River Valley is the relatively low elevation, compared with places like Utah or Colorado. Few trails rise above 8,000 feet. 
 As the harvest moon peaked, I managed to pull a group of mountain bikers away from their families for the ride to a Sun Valley Trekking hut called Coyote Yurt, for an overnight stay. We chatted on the ascent past Lupine Point with stunning views of the Boulder Mountains to the east. The ride was smooth, except for a section of crusty leftover snow on a shady, north-facing slope. 
 Knowing that we wouldn't be racing back to the village at the end of the day's ride, our party began to unwind when we reached the yurt in the Smoky Mountains about 12 miles from Highway 75. Joe St. Onge, also a Sun Valley Trekking owner, started supper, and his wood stove began to warm the yurt in the evening chill. Suddenly, the yellow moon popped up from behind the Devil's Bedstead, an imposing peak in the Pioneer Mountains, one of five surrounding ranges. 
 Dinner conversation flowed between the validity of vegetarianism and various political views, to questions about mountain ecology and Ultimate Fighting. There were also plenty of postulations about the global economy. Will Hovey, a volunteer fireman and private equity investor, said the view from his office of a snow-dusted Bald Mountain has been his favorite picture lately, since on his computer screen, he's only been seeing red. 
 Craig Maxwell, a Wood River Valley native and structural engineer who also joined us for the overnight, pointed out predatory birds and signs of wildlife. 
 The next morning, riding the Warm Springs Ridge Trail back to civilization again, we hit patches of snow. One section was covered with pancake-sized paw prints.
 ''That was either one wolf doing laps or a pack of them,'' Mr. Maxwell said, as we gained a ridge. 
 Where the wolf tracks faded out, we swooped downhill toward town on plush singletrack in the sun. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIRE AND ICE: Riding a patch of snow in a section of the Smoky Mountains that had burned last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS PILARO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 HAPPY TRAILS: Slopes by the Smoky Mountains, top. Will Hovey by a bike shuttle, above. Renee Catherine and Matt Weber build a trail, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS PILARO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) MAP: Area details the Sun valley region of Idaho. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAIN BIKING (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); CYCLING (90%); SKIING (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); RIVERS (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); HIKING (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LAKES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RESORTS (74%); SKIING FACILITIES (73%); SPORT FISHING (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); MINES & MINING (66%); VOLUNTEERS (64%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



992 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft's Profit Rises, But Outlook Is Cautious

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Microsoft, the world's largest software company, reported quarterly sales and profits that slightly surpassed Wall Street's expectations. But like so many technology companies, even the ones who managed to sidestep the fallout from the financial crisis in the September quarter, Microsoft delivered a cautious outlook. 
 The financial crisis prompted a slowdown in software sales, Christopher P. Liddell, Microsoft's chief financial officer, observed in a conference call Thursday. So the company lowered its revenue and profit forecasts into 2009, he said, to reflect ''the likelihood of continued economic weakness.'' 
 Microsoft, more than most other big technology companies, spans a range of business and consumer markets. Its product portfolio ranges from software that runs corporate data centers to personal computer software to video game machines to Internet advertising. The company is a bellwether for the technology industry. 
 The state of the industry provides a window into the broader economy because about half of all private investment today is in computer hardware, software and services. In the modern economy, technology is the vital input, much as steel and coal were in the postwar manufacturing-based economy.
 A survey last week by Morgan Stanley found business confidence had fallen sharply in the last month with only 11 percent of those polled saying they were optimistic about the outlook, the lowest level since the bank's survey began six years ago.
 Not surprisingly, the souring economy is expected to hit the technology industry. Gartner, a market research firm, recently said that if the economy is weak, technology spending in 2009 in North America will increase only half a percent, down from the 5.3 percent it had forecast previously.
 Information technology is now so woven into the fabric of business and commerce, noted Peter Sondergaard, Gartner's senior vice president for research, that spending will not grow much more or much less than the economy as a whole.
 ''In that sense, there is a safety net under the industry,'' Mr. Sondergaard said.
 Still, for the economy as a whole, analysts have been scaling back their projections for business investment and profits over the next year. 
 In early September, for example, Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Moody'sEconomy.com, had expected business investment in the United States to be flat in 2009. Today, the Economy.com forecast calls for a 4.2 percent decline in 2009, while the forecast for total corporate profits for next year has been sheared by $100 billion in the past six weeks.
 ''The financial panic has been a body blow to business investment and corporate profits,'' said Mr. Zandi, who now expects the weak conditions to continue until the fourth quarter of 2009.
 Microsoft's overall performance held up well, a bit better than expected, said Charles Di Bona, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein. Microsoft's revenue in its first quarter, ended Sept. 30, rose 9 percent to nearly $15.1 billion from $13.8 billion a year ago. Net income increased 2 percent to $4.37 billion, or 48 cents a share, from $4.29 billion, or 45 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The consensus among Wall Street analysts was revenue of $14.8 billion and net income per share of 47 cents.
 Microsoft delivered healthy growth of 20 percent in sales of business software, which includes its Office desktop productivity, collaboration and online meeting programs. Indeed, the business software group surpassed the Windows desktop operating systems unit in both sales and operating profits. 
 The Windows group posted a modest revenue gain of 2 percent and a decline of 4 percent in operating income from the year-earlier quarter. The slower growth, Mr. Liddell said, reflected a higher share of Windows sales for low-cost PCs both in developed countries and emerging markets, which have lower profit margins. 
 The weakness in the Windows business, Mr. Di Bona said, showed that corporations are not upgrading their PCs to Windows Vista, which was introduced in January 2007, as quickly as in past product cycles for new Microsoft operating systems. 
 Microsoft's revenue was also helped by stronger-than-expected sales of its Xbox 360 video game consoles, which were introduced in 2005. Despite its other strengths Microsoft still struggles in its online business, trailing well behind the leader in Internet advertising, Google.
 For its 2009 fiscal year, which ends in June 2009, Microsoft offered guidance to analysts that was less optimistic than their projections. For the fiscal year, Microsoft said it expected to earn $2 to $2.10 a share on revenue of $64.9 billion to $66.4 billion. The analysts' consensus, as complied by ThomsonReuters, was net income of $2.13 a share on revenue of $67.12 billion.
 In the regular trading session, before the quarterly results were released, the company's shares rose 79 cents, or nearly 4 percent, to $22.32 a share.
 Most technology companies are either adopting more conservative assumptions about their business prospects, like Microsoft, or taking big steps to prepare for tougher times. For example, Xerox, the big printer and document-handling company, reported profits on Thursday morning that were slightly below Wall Street's expectations, and announced plans to cut 3,000 jobs. The move, the company said, is intended to save $200 million a year in expenses.
 Anne M. Mulcahy, chief executive of Xerox, said the company anticipated ''very, very tough economic times,'' and added, ''that's why we're being so aggressive on cost reduction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Microsoft, led by Steven A. Ballmer, is a market bellwether. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS SINYAKOV/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (54%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



993 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Bid for 3rd Term Is Backed by City Council

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MICHAEL BARBARO; Reporting was contributed by Sewell Chan, Jason Grant, Jonathan P. Hicks and Fernanda Santos.

 BODY:
The New York City Council on Thursday cleared a path for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to run for re-election, voting to revise a term limits law twice approved by voters that would have forced him from office next year.
 By a 29-22 vote, council members handed Mr. Bloomberg his most personal political triumph yet, and dramatically reshaped the political landscape for 2009. 
 While legal challenges are expected in the days to come, many election law experts believe that the measure will survive. That means Mr. Bloomberg, given his popularity and his intention to spend $80 million to win a third term, would instantly become the favorite in the race.
 The mayor had pushed aggressively behind the scenes for the legislation after announcing three weeks ago that he wished to remain in office and steer the city through its deepening economic trouble. 
 Asked how he felt upon hearing that the measure had passed, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''I had a smile on my face. Also a little bit of a tinge of, 'Oh, my goodness! I hope I know what I'm doing here. We're going to have some very tough times.' ''
 His plan, which will also permit members of the City Council and other elected officials to serve for three four-year terms, had set off more opposition than Mr. Bloomberg had anticipated. Critics charged that the bill reflected the hubris of a billionaire willing to disregard the wishes of voters, who backed the current two-term limit in 1993 and 1996.
 The result was closer than most Council votes, since members typically fall in line with the mayor's wishes, and it followed hours of barbed testimony in the chamber and heckling from opponents who crowded into City Hall.
 ''This is a difficult vote in very difficult times,'' said Speaker Christine C. Quinn, who helped the mayor gather support for the legislation and argued that the economic challenges ahead called for continuity in leadership.
 Councilman Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn argued that the voters, not the Council, should decide whether to change term limits, given their support for them in the past.
 ''The people will long remember what we have done here today, and the people will be unforgiving,'' Mr. de Blasio said. ''We are stealing like a thief in the night their right to decide the shape of their democracy. We are forgetting who we work for.''
 As the results of the roll call approving the bill were announced at 4:35 p.m., the balcony erupted in shouts of ''The city's for sale!'' and ''Shame on you!''
 Afterward, two leading Democratic candidates for mayor, Representative Anthony D. Weiner and City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., insisted that they would remain in the race despite Mr. Bloomberg's candidacy. Ms. Quinn had already announced that she would shelve her own mayoral aspirations in deference to Mr. Bloomberg. 
 ''I'm running for mayor,'' said Mr. Weiner, who sought the office unsuccessfully in 2005. ''The middle class and those struggling to make it in this city deserve to have a voice. They had their voice taken away from them today, and I'm going to fight to be that voice.''
 Mr. Thompson condemned the vote, calling it ''an affront to New Yorkers.''
 Some political analysts caution that Mr. Bloomberg can hardly expect a cakewalk. Even though his approval ratings now hover around 70 percent, he is likely to raise taxes and cut services in the next year as the city grapples with the economic downturn. His challengers are likely to seek to exploit resentment over the term limits issue and strike a populist, us-versus-the-billionaires chord.
 Scott Levenson, a political consultant who has worked on many campaigns in the city, said that although Mr. Bloomberg still rated as a favorite, his hardball tactics throughout the term limits battle ''certainly give traction to mayoral opponents that would not have had any a few months ago. There is a moral, ethical and principled reason to run against Bloomberg now.''
 The mayor, speaking to reporters after the vote, played down such concerns.
 ''If the public doesn't like the process they just have to vote for someone other than Michael Bloomberg,'' he said.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who delegates many legislative matters to his aides, was intensely and personally involved in this fight. He courted the city's leaders of business and media over dinners and one-on-one meetings for several months, despite the initial resistance of his top aides who worried that a bid for a third term could harm his legacy as a reformer.
 ''This was the mayor's show, all the way,'' said a person who has advised Mr. Bloomberg.
 Mr. Bloomberg began his lobbying shortly after commissioning a poll in April to gauge public sentiment toward a third term. The collapse of Lehman Brothers on Sept. 15 provided an unexpected window for Mr. Bloomberg to act and gave him an opportunity to argue that his leadership was needed. 
 The mayor made many calls to wavering council members and allies among labor leaders and nonprofit groups. One member of the Council received at least three calls from the mayor appealing to the legislator's civic pride.
 ''I know you love this city,'' Mr. Bloomberg told the council member, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversation was supposed to be private. ''We need to do this.''
 Ms. Quinn, a shrewd vote-counter, also worked on uncommitted members. Just a few minutes before the Government Operations Committee convened to vote on the mayor's bill on Thursday morning, Ms. Quinn could be overheard, her voice carrying through office walls, saying, ''We're working on them,'' questioning whether Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer of Manhattan would vote yes (she did not), and mentioning the number 29 (the final yes total).
 Before taking up the legislation, the full Council rejected an amendment, introduced by three council members, that called for a public referendum to decide whether term limits should be extended.
 The day produced several memorable exchanges. During floor debate, Councilman Tony Avella of Queens asked Councilman Alan J. Gerson of Manhattan if he would back the mayor's legislation if an amendment seeking a referendum failed. When Mr. Gerson said he did not want to tip his hand, Mr. Avella chanted: ''Cop out, cop out.''
 Ms. Quinn directly challenged her critics, who claim that she and the mayor had struck a backroom deal to extend their time in office.
 ''Support for this bill is broad and deep,'' she said. ''Ed Koch and Mario Cuomo -- they barely agreed on anything for 30 years, but they both came to this chamber to strongly and eloquently endorse this bill.''
 Mr. Avella encouraged voters to punish his colleagues for reversing two referendums. ''You should all be voted out of office for voting for this,'' he said.
 In the end, of the 35 council members scheduled to be forced out of office in 2009, 23 of them supported the extension. By contrast, only 6 out of 16 who are in their first term voted yes.
 Councilman James Vacca of the Bronx, who had until recent days indicated that he would oppose the bill, reversed himself on Thursday. He said that a call from his mother, who asked him why she could not vote to re-elect Mr. Bloomberg as mayor, persuaded him to change his mind.
 Mr. Bloomberg kept to a routine schedule on Thursday, and interviewed judges for re-appointment in City Hall during much of the proceedings, while aides stayed glued to the live coverage of the debate.
 When he left City Hall at 5:15 shortly after the vote concluded, he was greeted by a dozen or so hecklers who yelled ''Sellout!'' and ''Get in your limousine and get the hell out of town!''
 The mayor turned around as if to say something, then decided against it, climbed into his black S.U.V. and headed uptown.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A map in some editions on Friday with the continuation of a front-page article about the New York City Council's vote to approve a change in the term limits law omitted a label for Council District 33 in Brooklyn, and an accompanying list of council members who voted for the measure misidentified the home borough of 11 members. Only the first six members listed under the Queens subheading are from Queens; the remaining 11, from David Yassky to Michael C. Nelson, are from Brooklyn. A chart showing how each council member voted is at nytimes.com/nyregion.

GRAPHIC: CHART: How They Voted: The City Council voted 29-22 on Thursday to extend to three the number of consecutive terms the mayor and other elected officials can serve, allowing Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to seek re-election. Council members whose terms would have ended next year voted 23-12 in favor of the bill. They can now run again.(pg. A25) Chart shows demographics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (92%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



994 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Four Airlines Report Quarterly Losses

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The US Airways Group and three smaller airlines posted net losses on Thursday, but the reports were mildly encouraging as industry leaders said that the airlines had weathered a spike in oil prices and that the outlook was improving. 
 Of the four reporting airline companies -- US Airways, AirTran Holdings, JetBlue Airways and the Alaska Air Group -- only AirTran missed expectations. 
 The results were mixed, however, and airline shares tumbled on a murky industry outlook and a slight gain in oil prices. 
 ''Yes, oil prices are falling,'' said Basili Alukos, a Morningstar equity analyst. ''But when will low-cost rivals, mainly Southwest, decide to reduce ticket prices to stimulate consumer demand? When this happens, the benefits of lower oil prices will quickly erode.'' 
 Carriers linked their net losses to a jump in fuel prices in the third quarter. Since then, a 50 percent drop in oil prices has been welcome relief to airlines, but executives remained cautious over how economic weakness might affect travel demand. 
 ''It's too early to tell if economic concerns will impact demand,'' US Airways' chief executive, W. Douglas Parker, said in a note to employees. ''But what we do know is that, when combined with the falling price of oil, we feel very good about US Airways' ability to weather this environment because of the steps we've taken.'' 
 JetBlue's chief executive, David Barger, was more optimistic. ''Despite the economic uncertainty, we see continued strength in our bookings in the near term,'' Mr. Barger said in a statement. 
 US Airways said its third-quarter net loss amounted to $865 million, or $8.45 a share, compared with a profit of $177 million, or $1.87 a share, a year earlier. The loss included a $488 million charge as the company wrote down fuel hedges as the price of jet fuel fell.
 Excluding charges, the airline said it lost $242 million, or $2.35 a share, compared with Wall Street forecasts for losing $2.54 a share. 
 Stock in US Airways, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., fell $1.35, or 16 percent, to $7.14 a share. 
 AirTran Holdings, parent of AirTran Airways, said its third-quarter net loss amounted to $107.1 million, or 91 cents a share, compared with a profit of $10.6 million, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $673 million from $609 million. 
 The company said it took a charge of $41.5 million related to fuel hedges. 
 Stock in AirTran, which is based in Orlando, Fla., fell 25 cents, or 7 percent, to $3.20 a share. 
 JetBlue said it lost $4 million, or 2 cents a share, reversing a profit of $23 million, or 12 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $902 million from $765 million.
 Stock in JetBlue, which is based in Forest Hills, N.Y., gained 1 cent, to $5.02 a share.
 Alaska Air said it lost $86.5 million, or $2.40 a share, reversing a year-earlier profit of $81.8 million, or $2.01 a share. Revenue rose to $1.07 billion from $989 million.
 Stock in Alaska Air, which is based in Seattle, fell 87 cents, to $22.63 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); JET FUEL (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); TICKET SALES (69%); FUEL MARKETS (68%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (98%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (93%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (98%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (93%); ALK (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (79%); DAVID BARGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



995 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Hinting at Cuts, U.P.S. Profit Falls 9.9%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
United Parcel Service reported a 9.9 percent drop in quarterly profit on Thursday and said it expected consumers to cut back on holiday gift purchases.
 The company is planning cost cuts, including layoffs, in 2009. It said it expected profit for 2008 to be toward the low end of a range it provided in July. 
 ''With consumer confidence approaching new lows, we're concerned that Santa's sleigh will be lighter this year,'' Kurt Kuehn, chief financial officer, said on a conference call with analysts.
 In an interview with Reuters, Mr. Kuehn said that despite a slowing world economy, the company expected its global export package business to grow 5 percent in the current quarter.
 Demand for its services fell off sharply toward the end of the third quarter, which ended Sept. 30, as the global financial crisis hit.
 ''In September, we saw precipitous declines,'' Mr. Kuehn said in the conference call.
 The results were better than Wall Street had forecast, and analysts attributed that to the decline in fuel prices of the last few months. U.P.S., like its rivals, has imposed surcharges to compensate for soaring diesel and jet fuel prices in recent years. 
 U.P.S. shares rose 3.75 percent, or $1.74, to close at $48.13 a share in New York Stock Exchange trading.
 I.R.S. Reverses FedEx Ruling
 The Internal Revenue Service withdrew a preliminary finding that the FedEx Corporation owed back taxes for misclassifying drivers, bolstering the company's assertion that the workers are contractors and not employees.
 The I.R.S. is continuing a tax audit of the FedEx Ground unit for the 2002 calendar year, the company said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. The I.R.S. said in December that FedEx owed $319 million in back taxes and penalties for categorizing the ground drivers as contractors in 2002, and that similar issues were under audit for 2004 through 2006.
 The reversal may help FedEx defend itself in a class-action lawsuit in federal court in Indiana in which drivers are seeking $1 billion in damages. The drivers, who deliver packages through FedEx's ground network, want to become employees, which would give them better pay and benefits and the ability to unionize.
 Lynn Rossman Faris, a lawyer who represents more than 20,000 current and former drivers suing FedEx, said it was unclear how the I.R.S. finding would affect the litigation.
 Fred Smith, FedEx's founder and chief executive, says the ground drivers are small-business owners who invest in their trucks and are free to hire substitutes or helpers as they expand their routes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); TAX LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AUDITS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAX AUDITS (69%); JET FUEL (67%); DIESEL FUEL (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); LAWYERS (62%); CLASS ACTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (95%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (59%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (95%); UPS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (95%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (95%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (95%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (59%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



996 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: New Effort to Tighten Rules On Immigrants' Employers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Thursday that he would try again to overcome a judge's objections to a proposal to force employers to dismiss workers whose Social Security numbers do not match their names.
 The proposal has been stymied for months by a federal district judge in California who blocked the rule after several groups sued. Mr. Chertoff said his agency had addressed the judge's concerns with some additions to the proposal, including an analysis of the economic costs of the rule.
 Mr. Chertoff said he expected continued opposition from the groups that sued, like the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
 ''Groups like the Chamber of Commerce have told us; they haven't been coy about it,'' he said. ''There are many businesses that rely on illegal migration in order to carry out their activities, and it would hurt them if they had to carry out the rule. In my experience, making money is not a sufficient justification for violating the rule since most people break the rule in order to make money.''
 Mr. Chertoff spoke at a news conference held to list his agency's immigration enforcement achievements. He said the stepped-up enforcement had helped stall illegal immigration, and possibly decrease it. But to control illegal immigration for the long term, enforcement must be part of comprehensive immigration reform, he said.
 Angelo Amador, the chamber's director of immigration policy, dismissed Mr. Chertoff's comment, saying the need for illegal workers is not an argument in the lawsuit. 
 ''The bottom line is this case has never been about illegal workers,'' Mr. Amador said. ''It has been about the cost of a badly thought-out rule and the cost on legitimate businesses following all the rules and complying with it.'' 
 He said the department's own analysis, which it was forced to do after the judge blocked the rule, shows that 37,000 to 165,000 legitimate workers would not be able to work because of the rule.
 The Social Security Administration regularly sends ''no match'' letters to employers when a Social Security number provided by an employee does not match the name of the employee in their database. The problem can be a clerical error, perhaps the failure of a woman to update her last name after she marries or some other issue. But the no match process is also used to identify workers who may be using someone else's Social Security number or a fake number.
 The administration's plan is to penalize employers who do not fire workers unable to resolve the no match.
 ''There are many instances where the reason for a no match is we have an unauthorized worker using phony documentation,'' Mr. Chertoff said. ''What the regulation originally proposed is, in that instance, an employer cannot simply put his or her head in the sand, but must take steps to make sure they are brought into compliance.''
 But groups like the American Civil Liberties Union, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the National Immigration Law Center and the chamber say the plan could lead to discrimination, racial profiling and illegal firing of legitimate workers in the same way that babies and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, mistakenly ended up on the government's ''no-fly list.''
 Mr. Amador said the administration's requirement that employers fire workers with a no match does not protect them from prosecution for civil rights violations.
 Lucas Guttentag, the A.C.L.U.'s immigration rights project director, said, ''Instead of fixing the database, the Bush administration has turned a blind eye to reality by using the same fatally flawed information that will punish American workers and businesses in the middle of an economic meltdown.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); DISMISSALS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); JUDGES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



997 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: McCain and Obama Hurl Broadsides at Each Other Over Taxes and Jobs

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: SARASOTA, Fla. 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain pummeled Senator Barack Obama as an enemy of small business during a ''Joe the Plumber'' bus tour across central Florida on Thursday, although Joe the Plumber was not actually along for the ride. 
 As Mr. Obama headed to Hawaii to visit his ailing grandmother, it was unclear if Mr. McCain would temporarily let up in his criticism of his opponent, but he exercised no restraint on Thursday. All day long, his campaign plucked other ''Joes'' from the crucial swing counties of the Interstate 4 corridor and put them in front of microphones to echo Mr. McCain's position that small-business owners would be unfairly taxed should Mr. Obama win the White House. 
 There was the talkative Gary the Dentist in Altamonte Springs (Gary Coatoam of Coatoam Periodontal, where Mr. McCain stopped in the late morning), who told reporters right off the bat in his office, as the candidate stood by, that ''I just wanted to say that I believe Senator McCain is the answer to what all of us have been looking for.''
 There was Jim the Produce Stand Owner in Plant City (Jim Meeks of Parkesdale Farms), who led Mr. McCain through his landmark open-air shop in a conservative pocket of Hillsborough County. There was Ramon the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce President (Ramon Ojeda) who had lunch with Mr. McCain and Gov. Charlie Crist in Orlando at Mi Viejo San Juan, a restaurant in the middle of the city's booming and Democratic-leaning Puerto Rican community.
 President Bush won the I-4 corridor in 2004, but Mr. Obama has made inroads, and recent polls showed him with a solid edge over Mr. McCain statewide.
 Mr. McCain started his day at a lumber yard in Ormond Beach, where he stepped up his criticism of the Bush administration by pounding the lectern and demanding that the government support his plan to buy troubled mortgages from homeowners. ''And why isn't the Treasury secretary not ordering them to do that?'' Mr. McCain asked, referring to Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 All day long, Mr. McCain told crowds that his opponent would say anything to get elected. ''Senator Obama may say that he's going to soak the rich, but it's the middle class that are going to get wet,'' Mr. McCain shouted to big applause at a rally in Sarasota. 
 In Ormond Beach, Mr. McCain said: ''We finally learned what Senator Obama's economic goal is. As he told Joe the Plumber in Ohio, he wants to, quote, 'spread the wealth around.' He believes in redistributing the wealth, not in policies that grow our economy and create jobs and opportunities for all Americans. Senator Obama is more interested in controlling who gets your piece of the pie than he is in growing the pie.''
 ''Socialist!'' someone in the crowd yelled.
 As millions of Americans already know, ''spread the wealth around'' comes from Mr. Obama's encounter with Samuel J. Wurzelbacher, known since as Joe the Plumber, outside Toledo on Oct. 12, when Mr. Wurzelbacher wondered aloud if Mr. Obama might support a flat tax. Mr. Obama replied that he did not think it was fair for someone as well-off as himself to pay the same tax rate as a waitress, and then added, ''And right now everybody's so pinched that business is bad for everybody, and I think when you spread the wealth around, it's good for everybody.''
 Based on this comment, the McCain campaign has been trying to paint Mr. Obama as a socialist.
 Mr. Obama spoke on Thursday to a crowd in downtown Indianapolis that the local authorities estimated at 35,000 people, and he hit Mr. McCain as supporting corporate tax cuts.
 ''If Senator McCain wants to defend tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas, that's his choice,'' Mr. Obama said at the rally at the American Legion Mall. ''But I say, let's end tax cuts for companies that ship American jobs overseas, and give them to companies that create good jobs right here in Indiana, in the United States of America.''
 Mr. Obama then left for Honolulu to visit his 85-year-old grandmother, Madelyn Payne Dunham. He is expected to spend much of Friday with her before flying to a rally Saturday in Reno, Nev.
 While Mr. Obama is only going to be gone for one full day, it is still an unusual occurrence at this point in a presidential campaign.
 ''It's not optimal, but there was never any debate or discussion or anything,'' David Axelrod, the chief strategist for Mr. Obama, said in an interview Thursday. ''Barack's grandmother is one of the formidable people in his life. He wants to go see her on the advice of her doctors. He had to do it now. So we'll just make do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama speaking at a campaign rally on Thursday at the American Legion Mall in Indianapolis. Mr. Obama left later for Hawaii. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); JOB CREATION (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); CHARLIE CRIST (57%); HENRY PAULSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (91%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



998 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Barack Obama for President

 BODY:
Hyperbole is the currency of presidential campaigns, but this year the nation's future truly hangs in the balance.
 The United States is battered and drifting after eight years of President Bush's failed leadership. He is saddling his successor with two wars, a scarred global image and a government systematically stripped of its ability to protect and help its citizens -- whether they are fleeing a hurricane's floodwaters, searching for affordable health care or struggling to hold on to their homes, jobs, savings and pensions in the midst of a financial crisis that was foretold and preventable.
 As tough as the times are, the selection of a new president is easy. After nearly two years of a grueling and ugly campaign, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has proved that he is the right choice to be the 44th president of the United States.
 Mr. Obama has met challenge after challenge, growing as a leader and putting real flesh on his early promises of hope and change. He has shown a cool head and sound judgment. We believe he has the will and the ability to forge the broad political consensus that is essential to finding solutions to this nation's problems. 
 In the same time, Senator John McCain of Arizona has retreated farther and farther to the fringe of American politics, running a campaign on partisan division, class warfare and even hints of racism. His policies and worldview are mired in the past. His choice of a running mate so evidently unfit for the office was a final act of opportunism and bad judgment that eclipsed the accomplishments of 26 years in Congress.
 Given the particularly ugly nature of Mr. McCain's campaign, the urge to choose on the basis of raw emotion is strong. But there is a greater value in looking closely at the facts of life in America today and at the prescriptions the candidates offer. The differences are profound. 
 Mr. McCain offers more of the Republican every-man-for-himself ideology, now lying in shards on Wall Street and in Americans' bank accounts. Mr. Obama has another vision of government's role and responsibilities. 
 In his convention speech in Denver, Mr. Obama said, ''Government cannot solve all our problems, but what it should do is that which we cannot do for ourselves: protect us from harm and provide every child a decent education; keep our water clean and our toys safe; invest in new schools and new roads and new science and technology.''
 Since the financial crisis, he has correctly identified the abject failure of government regulation that has brought the markets to the brink of collapse.
 The Economy
 The American financial system is the victim of decades of Republican deregulatory and anti-tax policies. Those ideas have been proved wrong at an unfathomable price, but Mr. McCain -- a self-proclaimed ''foot soldier in the Reagan revolution'' -- is still a believer. 
 Mr. Obama sees that far-reaching reforms will be needed to protect Americans and American business.
 Mr. McCain talks about reform a lot, but his vision is pinched. His answer to any economic question is to eliminate pork-barrel spending -- about $18 billion in a $3 trillion budget -- cut taxes and wait for unfettered markets to solve the problem. 
 Mr. Obama is clear that the nation's tax structure must be changed to make it fairer. That means the well-off Americans who have benefited disproportionately from Mr. Bush's tax cuts will have to pay some more. Working Americans, who have seen their standard of living fall and their children's options narrow, will benefit. Mr. Obama wants to raise the minimum wage and tie it to inflation, restore a climate in which workers are able to organize unions if they wish and expand educational opportunities.
 Mr. McCain, who once opposed President Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy as fiscally irresponsible, now wants to make them permanent. And while he talks about keeping taxes low for everyone, his proposed cuts would overwhelmingly benefit the top 1 percent of Americans while digging the country into a deeper fiscal hole.
 National Security
 The American military -- its people and equipment -- is dangerously overstretched. Mr. Bush has neglected the necessary war in Afghanistan, which now threatens to spiral into defeat. The unnecessary and staggeringly costly war in Iraq must be ended as quickly and responsibly as possible.
 While Iraq's leaders insist on a swift drawdown of American troops and a deadline for the end of the occupation, Mr. McCain is still talking about some ill-defined ''victory.'' As a result, he has offered no real plan for extracting American troops and limiting any further damage to Iraq and its neighbors. 
 Mr. Obama was an early and thoughtful opponent of the war in Iraq, and he has presented a military and diplomatic plan for withdrawing American forces. Mr. Obama also has correctly warned that until the Pentagon starts pulling troops out of Iraq, there will not be enough troops to defeat the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. 
 Mr. McCain, like Mr. Bush, has only belatedly focused on Afghanistan's dangerous unraveling and the threat that neighboring Pakistan may quickly follow.
 Mr. Obama would have a learning curve on foreign affairs, but he has already showed sounder judgment than his opponent on these critical issues. His choice of Senator Joseph Biden -- who has deep foreign-policy expertise -- as his running mate is another sign of that sound judgment. Mr. McCain's long interest in foreign policy and the many dangers this country now faces make his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska more irresponsible.
 Both presidential candidates talk about strengthening alliances in Europe and Asia, including NATO, and strongly support Israel. Both candidates talk about repairing America's image in the world. But it seems clear to us that Mr. Obama is far more likely to do that -- and not just because the first black president would present a new American face to the world.
 Mr. Obama wants to reform the United Nations, while Mr. McCain wants to create a new entity, the League of Democracies -- a move that would incite even fiercer anti-American furies around the world. 
 Unfortunately, Mr. McCain, like Mr. Bush, sees the world as divided into friends (like Georgia) and adversaries (like Russia). He proposed kicking Russia out of the Group of 8 industrialized nations even before the invasion of Georgia. We have no sympathy for Moscow's bullying, but we also have no desire to replay the cold war. The United States must find a way to constrain the Russians' worst impulses, while preserving the ability to work with them on arms control and other vital initiatives.
 Both candidates talk tough on terrorism, and neither has ruled out military action to end Iran's nuclear weapons program. But Mr. Obama has called for a serious effort to try to wean Tehran from its nuclear ambitions with more credible diplomatic overtures and tougher sanctions. Mr. McCain's willingness to joke about bombing Iran was frightening. 
 The Constitution and the Rule of Law
 Under Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, the justice system and the separation of powers have come under relentless attack. Mr. Bush chose to exploit the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, the moment in which he looked like the president of a unified nation, to try to place himself above the law. 
 Mr. Bush has arrogated the power to imprison men without charges and browbeat Congress into granting an unfettered authority to spy on Americans. He has created untold numbers of ''black'' programs, including secret prisons and outsourced torture. The president has issued hundreds, if not thousands, of secret orders. We fearit will take years of forensic research to discover how many basic rights have been violated.
 Both candidates have renounced torture and are committed to closing the prison camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 But Mr. Obama has gone beyond that, promising to identify and correct Mr. Bush's attacks on the democratic system. Mr. McCain has been silent on the subject.
 Mr. McCain improved protections for detainees. But then he helped the White House push through the appalling Military Commissions Act of 2006, which denied detainees the right to a hearing in a real court and put Washington in conflict with the Geneva Conventions, greatly increasing the risk to American troops. 
 The next president will have the chance to appoint one or more justices to a Supreme Court that is on the brink of being dominated by a radical right wing. Mr. Obama may appoint less liberal judges than some of his followers might like, but Mr. McCain is certain to pick rigid ideologues. He has said he would never appoint a judge who believes in women's reproductive rights.
 The Candidates 
 It will be an enormous challenge just to get the nation back to where it was before Mr. Bush, to begin to mend its image in the world and to restore its self-confidence and its self-respect. Doing all of that, and leading America forward, will require strength of will, character and intellect, sober judgment and a cool, steady hand.
 Mr. Obama has those qualities in abundance. Watching him being tested in the campaign has long since erased the reservations that led us to endorse Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the Democratic primaries. He has drawn in legions of new voters with powerful messages of hope and possibility and calls for shared sacrifice and social responsibility. 
 Mr. McCain, whom we chose as the best Republican nominee in the primaries, has spent the last coins of his reputation for principle and sound judgment to placate the limitless demands and narrow vision of the far-right wing. His righteous fury at being driven out of the 2000 primaries on a racist tide aimed at his adopted daughter has been replaced by a zealous embrace of those same win-at-all-costs tactics and tacticians.
 He surrendered his standing as an independent thinker in his rush to embrace Mr. Bush's misbegotten tax policies and to abandon his leadership position on climate change and immigration reform.
 Mr. McCain could have seized the high ground on energy and the environment. Earlier in his career, he offered the first plausible bill to control America's emissions of greenhouse gases. Now his positions are a caricature of that record: think Ms. Palin leading chants of ''drill, baby, drill.''
 Mr. Obama has endorsed some offshore drilling, but as part of a comprehensive strategy including big investments in new, clean technologies. 
 Mr. Obama has withstood some of the toughest campaign attacks ever mounted against a candidate. He's been called un-American and accused of hiding a secret Islamic faith. The Republicans have linked him to domestic terrorists and questioned his wife's love of her country. Ms. Palin has also questioned millions of Americans' patriotism, calling Republican-leaning states ''pro-America.''
 This politics of fear, division and character assassination helped Mr. Bush drive Mr. McCain from the 2000 Republican primaries and defeat Senator John Kerry in 2004. It has been the dominant theme of his failed presidency. 
 The nation's problems are simply too grave to be reduced to slashing ''robo-calls'' and negative ads. This country needs sensible leadership, compassionate leadership, honest leadership and strong leadership. Barack Obama has shown that he has all of those qualities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX LAW (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



999 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH AND LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Death Tax Soon to Get New Life

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Perhaps the greatest public relations coup of this decade was the successful persuasion of millions of Americans that repealing the estate tax was a populist cause. A tax that applied to a tiny handful of estates of wealthy people was relaxed and is now slated for repeal in 2010.
 But the Bush administration, which pushed through the repeal in the 2001 tax act, reached too far and compromised too little. The death tax, as its opponents call it, will live on.
 The shape of that tax, and its ability to raise significant sums from the very wealthy, will be decided by Congress next year and is an issue in the current presidential campaign. Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama agree that the tax should be extended, but differ significantly on the details.
 Mr. McCain would exempt far more estates from the tax and would slash the tax bill for those who still must pay. Mr. Obama proposes to basically extend the tax as it will be in 2009. 
 The issue concerns more than dollars, although the dollars are substantial. A new study by the Tax Policy Center estimates that the estate tax backed by Senator Obama would bring in $116 billion from 2010 to 2014, while the McCain plan would bring in $27 billion.
 To those who support an estate tax that bites the very rich, it is an issue of sharing the burdens of a free society by imposing a progressive tax that brings in money from those who have most benefited from the society. It encourages charitable giving, because such donations are one way to avoid or reduce the estate tax.
 The tax also encourages work, they argue, by limiting the creation of an idle rich class that became wealthy by inheriting cash, not earning it. As Andrew Carnegie put it, ''The parent who leaves his son enormous wealth generally deadens the talents and energies of the son, and tempts him to lead a less useful and less worthy life than he otherwise would.'' 
 To opponents, the estate tax smacks of double taxation, as money that was taxed when it was earned is taxed again at death. They say it discourages work, saving and entrepreneurship. 
 Much of the rhetoric when the death tax was being killed concerned family farms, which were said to be lost as families struggled to come up with money to pay estate levies. The law already had breaks for farm families, and it is not clear that any family farms really were broken up. But anecdotes can be powerful things, even if they are not true.
 The 2001 tax cut, when it was pushed through Congress on largely party-line votes, was made as large as it could be without exceeding an arbitrary limit over the 10 years that budget analysts calculated. The calculated cost was reduced by assuming that the tax cut would expire at the end of 2010, so there was no cost in 2011, the last year being considered by the bean counters.
 Another consideration was the Senate rule that required 60 votes for a permanent tax cut. To get that many votes, President Bush and Congressional Republicans would have had to bring in Democratic votes, and that would have meant compromises they were unwilling to make.
 Had a bipartisan deal been struck, the tax cuts would have been smaller, but we would not be facing a huge tax increase in 2011 if nothing is done soon. Such a deal would have gotten the Bush administration off to a less intensely partisan start.
 The assumption then was that the Republicans would be able to make the tax cuts permanent at some later date, but that date never came. Legislative majorities can be transitory, a lesson the Democrats should remember next year.
 If Congress takes no action in 2009, the estate tax will fall to zero in 2010, and then bounce back to 2001 levels in 2011. That would create what the Tax Policy Center report, written by Leonard E. Burman, Katherine Lim and Jeffrey Rohaly, delicately calls ''grotesque tax policy initiatives.'' What they mean is that there would be a great temptation to do in dear old (very rich) dad before midnight on Dec. 31, 2010.
 It is amazing that a tax paid by so few estates gets so much attention. The Tax Policy Center, which is run by the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, estimates that 15,500 estates will face any tax bill this year, and that half the $23 billion in taxes will come from just 700 estates, each of which will face a bill of more than $5 million.
 This year, estates with more than $2 million of assets -- other than assets left to a spouse or to a charity -- face an estate tax of 45 percent of the remainder. Next year, the exclusion will rise to $3.5 million. 
 In practice, the effective exclusion is twice the stated amount when it is applied to married couples. The first spouse to die in 2009 can leave $3.5 million to heirs, tax-free, and the rest tax-free to the surviving spouse. If the second spouse dies the same year, he or she can leave another $3.5 million, tax-free, to the heirs.
 The Obama plan calls for keeping the exclusion at $3.5 million permanently, as well as for maintaining the 45 percent tax rate.
 The McCain plan seeks to raise the exemption to $5 million. But the far more important part of his proposal is to slash the tax rate to 15 percent. For those with estates in the range of hundreds of millions, that would have the effect of cutting the tax burden by two-thirds.
 In 2001, the exclusion was $675,000 and the tax rate 55 percent. That is the law that will come back if nothing is done. 
 One sign of the accomplishments of the opponents of the estate tax is that while Mr. Obama wants to return tax rates on very high-income Americans to the levels that prevailed before President Bush took office, Mr. Obama supports an estate tax rate that is 10 percentage points lower than it was then.
 There are many other parts of the tax law that must be changed next year. Congress used to pass tax laws for individuals that purported to be permanent, but since 2001 that practice has died. Leslie B. Samuels, a partner at Cleary Gottlieb and former tax policy official in the Clinton administration, notes that such provisions as a temporary fix for the alternative minimum tax and one allowing deductions for tuition expenses for some parents will also expire at the end of 2009. Individual income tax rates will rise at the end of 2010.
 None of this will be easy. Instead of forecasted surpluses, the outlook is for huge deficits even before considering the tax cuts each candidate has proposed, not to mention the inevitable stimulus package to deal with the worsening recession.
 One principle should be agreed upon before the haggling begins: There will be no more ''temporary'' tax provisions for individuals. Phasing in a provision may be acceptable, but sunset provisions are not. Never again should a Congress be forced to pass a tax law because a previous Congress adopted an expedient ''temporary'' tax plan that is about to expire.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The High & Low Finance column on Friday, about possible changes in the estate tax, misstated the amount that can be excluded from estate taxes in 2011 and later years if the current law is not changed. It is $1 million, not $675,000. The column also quoted incorrectly from a report by the Tax Policy Center about the possible consequences if action is not taken. The report said that would create ''grotesque tax planning initiatives,'' not ''grotesque tax policy initiatives.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (95%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUPS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); FAMILY FARMS (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (86%); FAMILY (85%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CHARITIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (87%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008



1000 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Polls Show Obama Gaining Among Bush Voters

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan, Dalia Sussman and Megan Thee contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama is showing surprising strength among portions of the political coalition that returned George W. Bush to the White House four years ago, a cross section of support that, if it continues through Election Day, would exceed that of Bill Clinton in 1992, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News polls.
 Underscoring his increasing strength in the final phase of the campaign, Mr. Obama led Mr. McCain among groups that voted for President Bush four years ago: those with incomes greater than $50,000 a year; married women; suburbanites and white Catholics. He is also competitive among white men, a group that has not voted for a Democrat over a Republican since 1972, when pollsters began surveying people after they voted.
 Of potential concern for Mr. Obama's strategists, however, a third of voters surveyed say they know someone who does not support Mr. Obama because he is black. 
 Voters were also closely divided about Mr. Obama's ability to handle a crisis, a finding that came as Republicans seized on remarks by his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, that foreign leaders were likely to test him in the first months of his term if he is elected. 
 Over all, however, the poll found that Mr. Obama would defeat Mr. McCain if the election were held now, with 52 percent of those identified as probable voters saying they would vote for Mr. Obama and 39 percent saying they would vote for Mr. McCain. 
 Among registered voters in the latest poll, the spread is almost identical, with 51 percent saying they would vote for Mr. Obama and 38 percent saying they would vote for Mr. McCain. A New York Times/CBS News poll taken a week ago showed a similar margin of victory for Mr. Obama.
 The latest nationwide telephone poll was conducted Sunday through Wednesday with 1,152 adults, of whom 1,046 said they were registered to vote. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points. 
 To measure support for the candidates among specific voting blocs, The Times combined data from the latest poll with one conducted last week because some of the subgroups were too small to be statistically reliable when extracted from a single survey.
 Despite Mr. McCain's continued questioning of Mr. Obama's readiness, the number of voters surveyed who say Mr. Obama has prepared himself well enough for the presidency was at its highest yet in the newest poll, 56 percent. 
 When The Times and CBS News first asked the question, more voters said they believed Mr. Obama was not ready, 49 percent, than believed he was, 44 percent. Mr. McCain still holds an advantage on that front, with 64 percent saying they believe he is prepared for the presidency. 
 There was also fresh evidence that Mr. McCain's attacks on Mr. Obama's character and qualifications in commercials, mailings, speeches and automated telephone calls were, if anything, harming Mr. McCain. The percentage of people who view Mr. McCain unfavorably was at its highest level since The Times and CBS began asking the question in 1999. Forty-six percent said they held unfavorable views of him, with 39 percent saying they viewed him favorably. Mr. Obama was viewed favorably by 52 percent of those surveyed, and unfavorably by 31 percent.
 Voters were almost evenly split over Mr. Obama's ability to handle a crisis wisely: 49 percent said they were confident he could and 47 percent said they would be uneasy. Respondents showed less ease with Mr. McCain: 51 percent said they would be uneasy with his approach and 46 percent expressed confidence. 
 Mr. Obama fared better than Mr. McCain on economic matters: 65 percent said they were somewhat confident or very confident in Mr. Obama's ability to handle the economy; 47 percent said the same thing about Mr. McCain.
 In spite of Mr. McCain's sustained attack on Mr. Obama's proposal to raise income taxes on households and businesses that earn more than $250,000 a year, Mr. Obama's plan received significant support in the new poll. When voters were asked whether they supported the tax increase to help provide health insurance for those who are not covered, 62 percent said it was a ''good idea'' and 33 percent said it was a ''bad idea.'' 
 Voters were evenly divided over Mr. McCain's plan to make permanent Mr. Bush's 2001 tax cuts. 
 In another area where Mr. McCain could take heart, the last two polls offered fresh evidence that his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate had helped to excite two traditional bases of support for Republican presidential candidates. White voters who say they attend church every week preferred Mr. McCain over Mr. Obama by 61 percent to 29 percent, and voters who live in the South preferred him over Mr. Obama by 51 percent to 40 percent. 
 But, over all, the percentage of those who view Ms. Palin unfavorably, 40 percent, was higher than those who view her favorably, 31 percent.
 Senior strategists of both parties have viewed the unpopularity of Mr. Bush and the Republican Party as major drags on Mr. McCain's chances. Favorability ratings for both are at all-time lows. Mr. Bush's approval rating of 22 percent is tied for its worst in the history of the Times/CBS poll, and opinions of the Republican Party are at their lowest since the poll first included questions about the political parties in 1985. Only 36 percent expressed a favorable opinion of Republicans, compared with 56 percent who expressed a favorable view of Democrats.
 That difference was reflected in comments from some respondents who said they had voted for Mr. Bush in 2004 but were planning to vote for Mr. Obama.
 ''I've always been a Republican, but I've switched in the last four years,'' said Helen Taylor, 63, of Los Fresnos, Tex., in a follow-up interview. ''I voted for Bush because I knew more about him than Kerry, and I stuck with the Republican stance on things at that time. But I became concerned about things Bush was doing, and now I'm more in line with the Democratic platform. I also like Barack Obama because he has intelligence and class and the ability to think on his feet.''
 Mr. Obama has a 16-point advantage over Mr. McCain among women in the combined data of the last two polls; Senator John Kerry outpolled Mr. Bush by three percentage points among women in 2004, according to exit polls.
 Mr. Obama is supported by 45 percent of white women, and Mr. McCain is preferred by 42 percent; Mr. Bush beat Mr. Kerry with 55 percent of the vote among white women, according to exit polls.
 Mr. Obama is tied with Mr. McCain among white men, a group that President Bush won with 61 percent of their vote. Mr. Bush's father, George Bush, was favored by more white men than those who preferred Mr. Clinton when he won the White House in 1992. 
 Some voters ascribe racial motives to those opposing Mr. Obama. Among the 33 percent who said they knew someone who did not support him mainly because he is black was Robert Richter, a Democrat from Dunbar, Pa.
 ''Some people are prejudiced and don't want to vote for him, for one thing, because he's black and for another, because they feel he's a Muslim,'' said Mr. Richter, a gas station worker. ''I think for some people saying Obama is a Muslim is their way of getting around the black issue.''
 Mr. Obama is a Christian, but e-mail has circulated falsely identifying him as a Muslim.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Hiett, 64, listening on Wednesday to a speech by Senator Barack Obama at a Democratic rally in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) POLL: Tracking Preferences: A comparison of groups' preferences in the 2004 presidential election with the groups' current support. (2008 aggregated data based on New York Times/CBS News telephone polls conducted nationwide Oct. 10-13 with 972 registered voters and Oct. 19-22 with 1,046 registered voters. 2004 data based on nationwide exit polls conducted by Edison/Mitofsky.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (70%); STATISTICS (70%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (55%); RELIGION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOE BIDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

 
